rities, who have long desired ampler and more accurate information on the extent and causes of mortality ; from an eminent foreigner, distinguished for extensive and accurate statistical intelligence ; and others, whose wide-spread inquiries in foreign countries, and peculiar facilities of information, entitled them to respect ;” unanimously agreed to a report, which expressed the following opinions as the conclusions at which they had arrived.
“ 1.
That the subject is urgently important.
“ 2. That it involves matters of great public and national interest, as well as individual satisfaction, and rights and claims to property ; and deserves the attention of the humblest artisan as well as of the most philosophical and states-man-like inquirer.
“ 3. That the existing law is imperfect and unjust, and requires not merely partial amendment, but real fundamental reform.
“ 4. That the present plan, even if improved and perfected, as applicable to the members of the established church, being founded on religious rights, is exclusive and intolerant, as it would not include a very considerable portion of the reflecting, intelligent, and influential population of the country, who are Protestant and Catholic dissenters from that church, and 1100 congregations who disapprove infant baptism, and must practically punish them (including, too, the community who may purchase or derive property from them) for claiming the rights of conscience, and believing what their judgments direct.
“ 5. That even to many pious and worthy clergymen of the established church the system is productive of pain and regret, as it often induces a compliance, from mere secular motives, with sacraments which they highly estimate and devoutly revere. But,
“ 6. That even as to the members of the church it is detrimental and absurd, since the registers are mere registers of baptisms and not of births, of burials and not of deaths ; since they supply no adequate proof of pedigrees, or means of proving or tracing ancestral descent ; since they are often falsified, stolen, burnt, inaccurately inscribed, and carelessly preserved ; since the securities intended to be given by the last general register act (52 Geo. III.), by directing the yearly and universal transcription of the registers, their deposit with the diocesan records, and the preparation of indexes to facilitate searches, have all experienced only the most limited fulfilment, as, while one fourth of the parishes make no returns, the returns that have been sent are never indorsed, and are subject to fire and decay, and the directions of the act have not and cannot be enforced ; and since the value of property is diminished by the difficulties incident to its transfer, and the insecurity by which it is so often held and acquired. And,
“ 7. That great trouble, vast expense, utter uncertainty, capricious charges, and local and general evils exist, while no means are supplied to obtain tbe information other countries possess, and justly value, as to the state of disease, the operation of moral and physical causes on the health of the people, the progress of population, and other matters on which accurate Knowledge can scarcely be too highly appreciated or too intensely pursued.”
The committee further recommended, that, as a remedy for tlle defects before mentioned, “ a national civil registration of births, marriages, and deaths, should be established,” including “all ranks of society, and religionists of every class.”
In pursuance of these recommendations, measures for effecting a better registration were laid before parliament ; and in August 1836 the act for registering births, deaths, and marriages in England, and the act for marriages in England, became law. Their operation was suspended for a limited time by the act of 7 Will. I V- chap. 1, and they were amend
ed by the act of 1 Vict. chap. 22, and thus amended they came into operation on the 1st of July 1837.
These acts leave untouched the act of
1812
so far as it relates to the registration of baptisms and burials, but repeal what relates to the registration of marriages, and provide a new registration of marriages, of
births,
and of 
deaths.
The circumstances recorded in the register-book under the new law are, in case of
birth,
the time and place ;
the 
name, if any ; sex ; name and surname of father ; name and maiden surname of mother ; rank or profession of father ; signature, description, and residence of the informant ; and the baptismal name, if added after registration of birth. In case of
death,
the time and place ; name and surname ; sex ; age ; rank or profession ;
cause tf death ; 
signature, description, and residence of the informant. Every entry must be signed by the informant and by the registrar, who discharges this duty without any immediate expense to the parties requiring registration, but is remunerated by a moderate fee on each entry paid quarterly out of the poor’s rates. The
informant,
in a case of
birth, 
must be one of the parents, or the occupier of the house or tenement in whlch the child was bom ; or, if it be a foundling, the overseer of the poor. In a case of
death,
it must be some person present at the death, or in attendance during the last illness ; or, in default of such person, the occupier ; or, in default of the occupier, an inmate of the house in which the death occurred ; or, if there be an inquest, the coroner. Persons so qualified
must
inform under pain of indictment, and sign the register on being requested so to do ; and without such signature no birth or death can be duly registered, and the entry cannot be given in evidence.
The new form for registration of marriages, applicable alike to all religious denominations, records the place and time of marriage ; names and surnames of the parties ; whether they are of full age or minors ; their condition (that is, whether bachelor or spinster, widowτ er or widow) ; their rank or profession ; residence at the time of marriage ; father’s name and surname ; rank or profession of father ; by what rites and ceremonies, after what preliminary forms (that is, whether license, banns, or certificate), and by whom solemnized ; and must also contain the signatures of the parties and of two witnesses.
One of the most important circumstances not previously recorded, for which provision is made in the new register, is the “ cause of death,” to w, hich a column is assigned in the registers of death, and where it is exhibited in juxtaposition with the period, locality, sex, age. and occupation, thus affording valuable data of the highest importance to medical science. In order to attain the utmost accuracy in the returns of the causes of death, a printed circular has been sent by the registrar-general to all medical practitioners in England and Wales, wherein it is recommended, under the hand of the President of tile Royal College of Physicians, the President of the Royal College of Surgeons, and the Master of the Society of Apothecaries, “ that every practising member of any branch of the medical profession who may have been present at the death, or in attendance during the last illness, of any person, shall, immediately after such death, place in the hands of such other persons as were in attendance, of the occupier of the house in which the death occurred, and of some inmate who may probably be required to give information,
written statements of the cause of death,
which such persons may show’ to the registrar, and give as their information on that subject.”
The recent registration act is peculiarly distinguished from other previous measures on that subject, by the provision of a central office in London, called the General Register Office, for the deposit of certified copies of all registers, and eeneral superintendence over everythi∏R relat
