in the place where they are intended to remain, that the growth of the roots may not be interfered with ; but when meant to be used for culinary purposes, or as ornamental plants, the seedlings may be transplanted in autumn. The most important use of the plants of this genus is to furnish the medicinal substance rhubarb.
It is not a little singular, that though this valuable medicine has been in use for centuries, we are still ignorant as to the precise species which yields it. Many endeavours have been made to ascertain this point, both by investigation of the countries from which the commercial rhubarb is brought, and by cultivating the known species and comparing their roots with the rhubarb of the shops, but none of these attempts hitherto has proved successful. Previous to 1732, rhubarb was believed to be yielded by the
Rheum ThaponticUm,
Linn. This species is distinguished by its leaves being roundish ovate, obtuse, pale green, with a few hairs beneath on the nerves and margins. The footstalks are pale green, striated, channelled above, with rounded edges. The roots are large and thick, much divided, and, like those of most of the other species, reddish brown without, yellow within. It is not found, however, that in cultivated specimens the roots yield a product at all resembling true rhubarb ; and as this species is a native of the wild land to the north of the Caspian Sea, between the Volga and Ural rivers, and not, so far as is known, of the country from which rhubarb is believed to come, the opinion that it is the true rhubarb plant has long been abandoned. It is chiefly this species, or hybrids of it, which is so commonly cultivated in gardens for the sake of the leafstalks, which are used extensively in the spring for making tarts and preserves. They have an agreeable acidity, owing to their containing, like some other plants of the same natural order, a considerable proportion of oxalic acid.
In 1732, some seeds sent to Paris and Chelsea as those of the true rhubarb plant were grown, and found to be 
Rheum undulatum.
This species is distinguished by its leaves being oval, obtuse, extremely wavy, of a dark-green colour, and by the footstalks being downy, blood-red, with the upper edges elevated. It is a native of China and Siberia, and was long cultivated by the Russians in the latter country as true rhubarb. The culture, however, is now abandoned, and it is well known that the roots which it yields are widely different from those of the genuine drug.
In 1750, Kaaw Boerhaave obtained some seeds which were said to be those of the true rhubarb ; and on being grown, they produced both
Rh. undulatum
and
Rh. palmatum.
The latter species is distinguished from all the others by its leaves being palmated, with acuminate segments ; and its roots on cultivation have been found by M. Guibour to bear the nearest resemblance, in colour, taste, and smell, to the true rhubarb. It appears, however, from the inquiries of Pallas, that the Bucharian rhubarb merchants knew nothing of such a leaf as that of
Rh. palmatam,
and described the true rhubarb plant as having round leaves with waved edges. This has been supposed to come near to another species,
Rh. compactum,
which is also occasionally cultivated in our gardens, but its roots are found to differ from true rhubarb in many particulars. Notwithstanding the doubts raised by Pallas, however, the idea that
Rh. palmatum
is the true rhubarb plant is still extensively entertained, and it has been stated as such in the new edition of the London Pharmacopoeia. It is very doubtful, however, if a decided opinion upon this point is admissible in the present state of our knowledge regarding this subject.
In the state of uncertainty to which these conflicting opinions gave rise as to the origin of rhubarb, the Empress Catherine U. of Russia, in 1790, sent an apothecary of the name of Sievers into Siberia, to endeavour to penetrate into the rhubarb country and ascertain the true plant ; but after four years’ attempts he was ultimately foiled, and returned
with no further information than that nothing certain appeared to be known upon the subject
More recently the
Rh. Emodi
of Dr Wallich (flΛ.
Australe,
Don), and
Rh. Webbianum,
both natives of the Hima-layah Mountains, have been found to be valuable as purgatives, and the former was supposed to be the true source of Chinese rhubarb ; but Mr Pereira has found that the Hi-malayah rhubarb was quite different from the rhubarb of the shops.
It thus appears that the source of true rhubarb is still unascertained ; nor is it at all certain that it is not yielded by more than one species. Professor Royle of King’s College is of opinion, and apparently correctly, that it is obtained in the heart of Thibet, in about 95° east longitude, and 35° north latitude, a country into which as yet no scientific botanist has ever penetrated. It is worthy of remark, that this agrees with the Statcments of Pallas and other travellers, that the Russian rhubarb is gathered on the mountains surrounding Lake Kokonor, and that this is part of what has been assigned by Murray as the native country of
Rh. palmatum.
Here, therefore, an excellent subject for investigation is still open ; and it is to be hoped that this desideratum in our knowdedge of the botanical materia medica may soon be supplied. Several circumstances however combine to render the attainment of this object difficult. The labour of penetrating into the wild country where the true rhubarb probably grows is not to be overlooked ; and jealousy on the part of the dealers in this profitable article of commerce will likewise lead to much inconvenience. It is said that the trade in Russian rhubarb is monopolized by one Buc-harian family, who farm it from the Chinese government ; and it is not improbable that, in order to prevent the establishment of a rival trade elsewhere, they may already have embarrassed the subject, by purposely furnishing as the seeds of true rhubarb, those of different and inferior species. In attempting to ascertain the true officinal species by cultivation, we are likewise met by this difficulty, that the different species hybridise so readily that their distinctive characters are very readily lost. This is very apparent in the rhubarbs cultivated in our gardens, which, though commonly referred to
Rh. rhαpontieum,
are in great measure made up of hybrids between that species,
Rh. compactum,
and
Rh. hybridum.
Though the true rhubarb plant has not been seen by any scientific botanist, we have some interesting information from other travellers respecting its growth and production. The best accounts appear to be those given by Mr Bell in his journey from St Petersburg to Pekin. Sievers, in his Sttemptstodiscover the true rhubarb plant, likewise obtained some information respecting it, and the statements of these travellers differ only in some unimportant particulars. It appears that the plant is not made the subject of special culture, but that enough grows spontaneously to keep up the supply of this valuable drug. The marmots, which breed extensively in this country, contribute in a great measure to the propagation of the plant ; for it seems that the seeds germinate almost exclusively on the loose earth turned up by these animals in making their burrows. The natives gather the roots in spring and autumn, and, after removing the cortical part, cut them in small pieces to facilitate the drying. They cut a hole through each piece, and then string them upon a small cord, by which they hang them up to dry on poles or trees, or more commonly about their tents, and occasionally, it seems, upon the horns of their sheep. By this last practice a considerable amount of loss is sustained, as, from the prolonged exposure to moisture, much of the root becomes decayed and useless. According to Sievers, the roots are dried under sheds, out of the rays
of
the sun, and they sometimes take
a
whole year to dry.
