matic, and not a stringed instrument. Mersenne relates, that the Flemings invented an instrument,
les regales de bois,
consisting of seventeen cylindrical pieces of wood, decreasing gradually in length, so as to produce a succession of tones and semitones in the diatonic series, which had keys, and was played on as a spinnet ; the hint of which, he says, was taken from an instrument, in use among the Turks, consisting of twelve wooden cylinders of different lengths, strung together, which being suspended and struck with a stick having a ball at the end, produced music.
RIGOR, in
Medicine,
a convulsive shuddering from severe cold, an ague fit, or other disorder.
RIMA-SZOMBACH, a large market-town in the circle of Houth, and province of the Hither Theiss, in Hungary. It is situated on the river Rima, over which is a fine bridge. It is a well-built place, having a Catholic, a Lutheran, and a Calvinistic church, and a house of assembly for the meeting of the provincial states. It contains 4050 inhabitants, who are actively employed in making linen goods, in tanning leather, and other trades.
RIMINI, a city in the papal dominions, in the delegation of Forli. It is situated at the mouth of the river Marechia, over which is a bridge said to have been built by Augustus. The city was once on the sea-shore, but the water having receded, the canal to the ancient harbour is now a part of a garden. It is surrounded with walls. It is the seat of a bishop ; and, besides the cathedral, it contains several churches, and many convents, in which are paintings of the highest repute. It likewise contains several fine palaces, a public library, a town-house, and a market-place, adorned with some tine statuary. Among the antiquities are an amphitheatre, and some triumphal arches. There is a Lombard and several charitable institutions. The inhabitants amount to 17,460. They partly live on their incomes, but some are employed in making leather, in the fisheries, and in preparing sulphur. Long. 12. 27. 31. E. Lat. 44. 3. 43. N.
RING, an ornament of gold and silver, of a circular figure, and usually worn on the finger. The antiquity of rings is known from Scripture and profane authors. Judah left his ring or signet with Tamar. When Pharaoh committed the government of all Egypt to Joseph, he took his ring from his finger, and gave it to Joseph. After the victory which the Israelites obtained over the Midianites, they offered to the Lord the rings, the bracelets, and the golden necklaces, and the ear-rings, that they had taken from the enemy. The Israelitish women wore rings, not only on their fingers, but also in their nostrils and their ears. St James distinguishes a man of wealth and dignity by the ring of gold that he wr ore on his finger. At the return of the prodigal son, his father orders him to be dressed in a new suit of clothes, and to have a ring put upon his finger. The ring was used chiefly to seal with. The patents and orders of princes were sealed with their rings or signets ; and it was this that secured to them their authority and respect-The Episcopal Ring, w, hich makes a part of the pontifical apparatus, and is esteemed a pledge of the spiritual marriage between the bishop and his church, was used at a remote period. The fourth council of Toledo, held in 633, appoints that a bishop condemned by one council, and found afterwards innocent by a second, shall be restored, by giving him the ring, staff, &c. From bishops, the custom of the ring has passed to cardinals, who are to pay a very great sum
pro jure annuli cardinalitU.
RINGWOOD, a market-town of Hampshire, in the division of the New Forest, ninety miles from London. It is situated on the river Avon, is well built, has a handsome church, and a good market on Wednesday. It has been long celebrated for the excellence of the strong beer which is brewed there. The population amounted in 1801 to 3222, in 1811 to 3269, in 1821 to 3471, and in 1831 to 3434.
RIO GRANDE, a large river of Western Africa, which falls into the Atlantic a considerable distance to the south of the Gambia. It appears to be now ascertained, tllat the three great rivers of the western coast,
tlle
Senegal, the Gambia, and the Rio Grande, have all their sources very close to each other, in a range of mountains a short distance to the north-west of Teembo, in Foota Jallo. M. Mollien’s account represents the Gambia, called the Ba Diman, and the Rio Grande, called the Comba, as springing from the same basin, amid high mountains. The source of the latter stream is in latitude 10. 37. north, and longitude 11. 17. west- The correctness of this traveller’s statements is confirmed by M. Caillé, who crossed his route. M. Mol-lien, in describing the origin of the rivers, says, that on leaving the village called Toulon, he was led to the summit of one of the mountains which bear tlle appellation of Badet. Below him appeared two thickets, the one concealing the sources of the Rio Grande, and the other those of the Gambia. The valley in which they are situated forms a kind of funnel, having no other outlets than the two defiles by which tlle rivers issue. On quitting this basin these rivers pursue their course towards opposite points. The current of the Rio Grande is at first slow and turbid, but it soon clears ; and beyond the valley its direction, hitherto north-north-east, changes to the west. After receiving the Tomine or Dongo, it assumes the appellation of Kaboo, a name which also distinguishes the country between tlle Rio Grande, the Gambia, and the Geba river. The territories bordering on the upper part of its course are inhabited by Foulahs, and the kingdom of Foota Jallo extends along the right bank. Further down, its shores are peopled by the Biafaras1 Balantes, Papels, and other tribes, and occupied by the kingdoms of Ghinala and Biguba-Near its embouchure it divides into a number of branches, forming alluvial islands, which, with others farther out at sea, compose the Archipelagoofthe Bissagos. Thew'hole length of its course may be about 500 miles. It falls into the Atlantic fifty leagues to the south of the Gambia.
Rio Grande do Norte, a province of Brazil, is bounded on the south by Paraiba, on the north and east by the Atlantic Ocean, and on the west by Seara. Situated between the parallels of 4. 10. and 5. 45. of south latitude, the climate is of course very hot. At Cape St Roque, which forms the angle of this province, in longitude 36. 15. west, latitude 5. 7. south, tlle coast of Brazil terminates towards the north-east ; and the Atlantic Ocean, which has so long been its boundary on the east, begins to wash its northern shores. It presents about one hundred miles of sea-coast. The general features of the Jlrovince may be laid down as displaying a tolerable fertility to the southward of Natal, the capital, and as presenting a barren aspect to the northward of it, except on the banks, and in the immediate neighbourhood of the Rio Grande, or Potengi, the great river of the province. This stream rises in a ridge in the western limits of Rio Grande, and traverses its whole extent in a direction from south-west to north-east. The bar of the Potengi is narrow, but sufficiently deep for vessels of moderate tonnage. The river is very safe within the bar ; the water being deep and quite tranquil. The province is irrigated by other streams, on whose banks the most fertile land is to be found. The village and valley of Papari, lying to the north of the Rio Grande, are described as presenting a most inviting aspect. The whole of the valley is cultivated, and when every other part of thc Surroimding country is parched with drought, and the high sandy lands are rendered quite barren, this place retains its freshest verdure. Although at the distance of three or four leagues from the sea, the salt-water lake of Groahyras communicates with it, so that the inhabitants have the fish brought to their own doors. Between three and four leagues farther is the Indian village of St Joze, situated on a dry sandy soil. A
