life which will never end. The Moslems despise the Franks, but not the Frank physician. The caliphs themselves owed much of their fame and their intelligence to the Nazarene doctors, who communicated to them not only the art of healing, but much of the various knowledge of the Greeks. A Frank traveller is suspected ; he is certainly seeking for hidden treasure. But a physician proceeding on the same path is reverenced ; he is a benefactor, not a spoiler ; he is culling simples to form some potent elixir ; he has adopted the nobler part of the wonder-working art, not the secret of finding or making gold, but the mystery of prolonging life.
As the physician enables the missionary to gain immediate access to the hearts both of the young and the old, so the teacher, with the approbation of many who are unaware of the changes which he must introduce, is enabled to cut off the sources of error, and to implant the seeds of truth. Why is it that the present generation of idolaters still believe in their monstrous idols ? It is because they have been educated to do so. All these superstitions are attached to the past, and have no other root in the present than what custom and education give them. They already exhibit the symptoms of decay, even with the Pagan education in their favour. An education founded on facts, even though it were not grounded on Christian principles, would unfasten the slight and relaxing hold which they yet retain over the minds of the multitude, and would speedily accelerate their destruction. It is a great improvement which is beginning to be introduced into education, the uniting the acquisition of reading and writing with the practice of some of the manual arts. By this no time is lost, and health is promoted.
The first of all the arts, and applicable to every condition of society, is the cultivation of the ground. How much would a few simple rules and improved practices alter the external comforts of the tribes amongst whom missionaries are labouring, whilst the improvement of the mind would proceed more rapidly along with the amelioration of their outward condition, and the more abundant supply of their temporal wants. The teacher also who is endeavouring to infuse common elementary knowledge into the minds of the young, has the best practice for obtaining that plainness of speech and simplicity of illustration, which will convey, in a tongue unused to express them, the truths of the gospel to those who are no longer young, but whose minds are still in the state of infancy, retaining the weakness of childhood without its pliancy.
There is great, hope for the world in this, that an education founded solely upon facts, without reference to opinions, and therefore without open controversy, is calculated to destroy all the roots of error, and, though it cannot change the heart, yet will leave a much wider field for truth than exists at present. The contests between different creeds is in a fair way of being reduced to narrow ground, and to a decisive issue. The only alternative speedily will be between Christianity and no religion ; and, unless belief and hope could be exterminated from the human breast, we need have no doubt as to the general result.
The introducing agriculture, and the other manual arts, into missionary establishments, would remedy one difficulty which frequently presents itself in affording employment and maintenance for new converts, who, in quitting their former creed, are often cut off from society and the means ofexistence, and in this way, without a new opening to enable them to provide for their own living, must become a burden and a discredit to the new society with which they have become connected. The amelioration of the soil around missionary stations, and improved methods of culture, would be attended with manifold advantages ; it would give a visible reply to the objections of the most sceptical, of what use are missionaries ? It would afford food and employment to those who are in temporary want of both, till new outlets could be found for the new converts, either from the ceasing of persecution against them, or from placing them in situations where their recent change does not excite the same enmity ; and it would form a little colony where Christian habits and Christian maxims prevailed, a moral oasis in the midst of the heathen wilderness. How great a change,
in 
many missionary stations, would even an acquaintance with the best method of irrigation produce ? There is sunshine to ripen any produce ; all that is required is moisture, and the rock is as ready at the hand of art as at the rod of the prophet, to yield its secret treasure of waters, and to spread as it flows over the sand a profusion of fruits and flowers. It was ow’ing to this art that the Arab dominion in Spain owed much of its prosperity and glory. The children of the desert, in their owr n burning regions, had been taught the economy of water ; the same skill which produced a wretched garden in the Sahara, created a paradise in Spain ; and to directing the Streamswhich were descending from the snows of the Alpuxaras, we owe these magic wonders which Madame de Stael could never hear of without her pulse beating faster, “ Les orangers du royaume de Grenade, et les citronniers des rois Maures.”
The employment of a few religious artisans, whilst they would tend greatly to the success of a mission, and to its speedier taking root in the soil to which it was transplanted, would, if they were possessed of a missionary spirit, add little to the expenditure. A gardener or practical agriculturist might be expected to do more than maintain himself ; a physician, though so important to the mission, might also, in many instances, detract but little from the funds. These, however, are minor considerations ; for a somewhat liberal expenditure, if judicious, is in the end the wisest economy.
A source both of economy and power is to concentrate the efforts that are made ; it may present a more imposing appearance to have a number of stations dotted about in all parts of the world ; but we have the example of the apostles, that the first object is to establish a church, to collect a number of believers, and to form them into a new centre, whence the truth may emanate in every direction around. In war nothing is so frequently fruitless as a victory, and it is the highest art of a commander to improve it to the utmost. In missionary efforts, success might be almost as fruitless, if advantage were not taken of it to the fullest extent, by bringing up additional resources, and completely occupying the ground that was gained. The fate of a battle often depends upon the reserve. One or two additional labourers on the missionary field might often terminate a long series of disappointments by a prosperous result. A little missionary colony would at once transplant Christianity into the region proposed to be ultimately occupied, and the children of the agriculturist or the artisan might form the missionaries of future years, inured to the climate, habituated to the mode of life and thought, and speaking the language with native facility. When a single missionary goes amongst a multitude of heathen, he has the whole tide of sympathy against the sentiments which he endeavours to introduce ; the case is reversed when the heathen youth is brought to the missionary settlement, and placed under the social influence of Christianity and civilization. A small missionary colony would at once commence a Christian church ; it would immediately become sacred ground, “ a place where prayer is wont to be made,” and where He who hears and answers prayer would interfere on their behalf, and would abundantly grant their requests.
The missionaries are availing themselves, with much intelligence and activity, of that instrument which is changing
tlle
world, the press. The Reformation was occasioned by tracts ; and all other changes since, both religious and political, have been indebted to those swift and efficacious messengers, which, like the winged Hermes of the ancients,
