of them, indeed, are not even directions which indicate to him the best road in which to travel ; but they are peremptory warnings, set up at certain places to inform him, that the cross-roads which at these points diverge from the highway, will lead him quite astray if he shall be tempted to strike into them. Now, it so happens that rhetoric would completely attain this its purpose of protecting us against error, if, discarding all special rules, it were simply to hold up to view, at all points suspected of being tlle commencement of bewildering paths, a statement of its own fundamental and ruling principle, and of two or three of the most obvious corollaries wdlich the principle involves. If the student of eloquence has been enabled, no matter by what means, firmly to apprehend and retain these essential truths, he has made an acquisition which is more valuable than any other connected with his art.
To the apprehension of those truths we have here endeavoured to aid in leading him. The aim of all composition not poetical being the Production of Belief, the great task of the speaker or writer should be the study of the character of those whom he addresses, or, in other words, the study of human nature, in all its regions, if possible, but at any rate in those with whose peculiarities his purpose is most likely to bring him into collision. This study must be prosecuted both in the closet and in the world, by reflection as well as by study and observation. In those departments of it which bear reference to human nature in the abstract, the hints of some writers on eloquence may aid a little, and metaphysical studies greatly more ; but even in this field the investigation of the recluse will often be barren ; and for the infinitely more varied and interesting study of individual character, the aspirant after literary or oratorical fame must repair to the crowded scenes of active life. But the knowledge with which study so conducted will store and fortify the mind, must be applied by the mind, in its constant meditations, to the special purpose of enabling us to accommodate our discourse both to the intellect, the imagination, and the feelings, the temper and prejudices, the state and amount of knowledge, and, in short, to the whole character, of our readers or hearers. There are some minds endowed with vigorous understanding, active imagination, and deep and varied sensibilities, in which much of this knowledge seems to be almost instinctive ; the possessors of such minds are men of genius, and eloquent almost as soon as experience has enabled them to overcome preliminary and practical difficulties ; and it is only from minds thus naturally full and strong that eloquence of the highest class will ever issue. Even genius, however, is a light that too often leads astray ; and the highest genius has always been the most warm in its gratitude to philosophy for stretching out her hand to lead it back to truth and nature. But there are innumerable and endless degrees and kinds of intellect, all below the highest, all imperfectly fitted for the tasks of conviction and persuasion, all requiring aid from without, all capable of receiving and profiting by such aid, and all more or less deficient in a distinct apprehension of the true aim of eloquence. In eloquence, as in morality, every class of minds is liable in its own way to forget and abandon the right path. The man of strong intellect and firm will degenerates into dogmatism, and reasons with his fellow-men in the same spirit in which the Jews built the second temple, where every man worked with one hand, and with the other hand held a weapon. If, in the common intercourse of society, we refuse to humour the characters of those around us, we shall receive our reward in the loss of confidence and love ; if, when we reason with or endeavour to instruct them, we refuse to make a similar allowance for those principles in their minds on which we seek to operate, the result will be that we shall leave them careless, uninformed, and unconvinced.
On the other hand, the man of fancy and warm feelings soars into the fairy-land of poetry ; amidst clouds of imagery and tempests of passion his hearers catch but the faintest glimpse of the truth which he designed to unfold ; and a weighing of proofs or a comprehension of explanations are things altogether out of the question. The poet and the dogmatist are equally distant from genuine eloquence ; and both equally forget, that he wr ho wishes to convince others of a truth should aim principally at discovering, not in what aspect the assertion and its proofs present themselves to his own mind, but in what light they are likely to be view ed by those to whom he is about to communicate them.
II.
Rhetoric, though etymologically referring only to spoken eloquence, was, even by the ancients, considered as fairly and necessarily embracing written composition likewise ; and in modern times, in which the press discharges so many of the functions which the public speaker of old exercised in his own person, the extension is quite indispensable. In the widest acceptation, then, Rhetoric is the art of Composition in Prose. However, even in treatises far more detailed than the present, it has been found convenient to limit the subject to Argumentative Composition ; and accordingly this view will be taken in the illustrations now’ to be offered. One who has accurately studied the philosophy and practice of Rhetorical Argument, will have little to learn when he turns to other branches of composition.
It will be advisable to adopt, with only an immaterial deviation from the order, the division of the subject which is laid down in the treatise of Aristotle ; according to which the rules of Rhetoric will be treated in three sections ; the first embracing the principles on which Belief must be produced by rhetorical composition ; the second treating very briefly of the Disposition or Arrangement of the Parts of an argumentative discourse ; and the third entering on the examination of the principles of Style.
It is laid down by Aristotle, as the foundation of the rhetorical art, that the Belief which it is the purpose of elo-
3
uence to produce, flows, so far as it is produced by the iscourse, from one or another of three causes, and from no others. Either, first, the conclusion has been proved, or seems, to those to whom it is addressed, to have been proved, by arguments directly appealing to the understanding ; or, secondly, the discourse has created a bias in favour of the writer or speaker, which makes the conclusion be received on the authority of his assertion ; or, thirdly, the discourse has excited in tlle minds of the hearers or readers other feelings (besides those favourable to the speaker or writer), by which the understanding is in the same way biassed. These in their order will now engage our attention.
Under the first head we are invited to examine the principles which should direct us in the Discovery of Arguments, and in their Arrangement.
And, first, as to the Discovery of Arguments. For assisting the writer or speaker in this task, the ancient rhetoricians offered means of two kinds. The one was a Classification of Arguments into their different kinds, with illustrative hints as to the proper uses of each. The second was the amassing of a collection of Topics or Common-places, of which some were arguments that admitted of being applied in any question of moral reasoning ; w, hile others, although not so widely available, were so for all questions embraced under the particular department of oratory in which they were classed.
