A key on each side has also been used with this form of rail, still, however, the keys were always found to work loose. Losh had also a projection rolled on the bottom of his rail ;
at the part which lies in the chair, where a corresponding cavity was cast to receive it, so that thιe effect of expansion or contraction would have a tendency to raise the rail in the chair, and thus wedge it tighter. The upper part of the notch for receiving the key in the chair was also formed with a slight curve, to allow of a small motion in the block, and the rails were made with a half-lap joint, formed not by cutting the middle rib of the rail, but by setting it back, so as to preserve its whole strength. They were laid down at three feet bearings, and weighed forty-four lbs. per yard, but of course were not restricted to that, or to any other weight.
Fig.5. The London and Birmingham fifty pound fish-bellied rail. This was laid down at three-feet bearings, and the half-lap joint formed by setting back the middle rib instead
of cutting it, in the same way as Losh’s rail. Itwaskeyed down by a pin going through the side of the chair in a direction sloping downwards. The end of this pin went into a notch in the side of the rail, at its lower parts; the pin was forced tightly in by an iron key acting through the chair, and also through a hole in the pin, by which it was driven both in and downwards ; and theendof the key being split, was then opened, to prevent it being shaken loose. Mr. Stephenson has a patent for this chair. The rails did not rest on the bottom of the chair, but on a loose piece of iron, the lower part of which was the segment of a circle, and the upper part flat, and of the same width as the middle rib of the rail ; and this worked in a circular cavity in the chair, so as to allow a motion when deflection took place in the rail. These rails had no bottom webs.
Fig. 6 is the St. Helen’s and Runcorn rail, with a bottom web, having a semicircular base. These rails are forty-two lbs. per yard, and w'ere laid down at three-feet bearings. A
wedge on both sides is used, which acts downwards as well as sideways, from the opening in the chair to receive it being narrow’er at the top than at the bottom.
Fig. 7 shews the parallel rails laid down on the Grand Junction, and London and Birmingham railways. The left hand one is sixty-four lbs. per yard on the London and Birmingham, and sixty-twolbs. per yard on the Grand Junction.
The right hand one is the Londonand Birmingham seventy-five pound rail. Rails of this kind are laid on seventy-five miles of that railway, and were intended to be at five feet
bearings, but provedacomplete failure at that distance, which had to be reduced to three feet nine inches. The left hand one was intended to be at four feet bearings. These rails were both laid down contrary to the opinion of the engineer, Mr. Stephenson, and have entailed a vast expense on that company. They have wooden wedges.
Fig. 8 is the Great Western rail, laid on longitudinal timbers, and forty-four lbs. per yard. FeIt is laid between the
rail and the timber, and the former is fastened down with screws. It has been found deficient in strength for the heavy engines used upon that railway.
Fig. 9 has been frequently adopted on railways formed
with longitudinal bearings. It is spiked down to the timbers, and requires no chair. The weights have varied from thirty five to sixty lbs. per yard. Sometimes the spikes have not gone through holes in the rail as in the figure, but have
been driven in just outside each edge of the rail ; in which case they are made with large heads, which come down and clip the rail firmly to the timbers.
The London and Birmingham Railway Company, after a long discussion, decided to try four and five feet with a parallel form instead of a fish-belly, which, requiring one-third more height in the chair, had, in addition to other disadvantages, that of being more liable to wring the chair from the block, which is found in practice to take place directly as the height of the chair. The block is also more loosened in the ground by a high chair, and the continual repairs arising from this loosening, amount to one-half the wages expended in repairing the way in general; hence every means of diminishing such a heavy item, which can possibly be devised, should be put in practice. As usual, where all was theory, there were considerable diversities of opinion. Those who wish to enter more at large on this subject, may consult Professor Barlow in favour of lengthening the bearings, and Lieutenant Lecount against it. As the matter has had a fair trial, it is only necessary here to state the results.
On the Primrose Hill contract, which was laid with four-
