the Batrachia, having an aspect exceedingly deformed. This arises not so much from the general shape of the animal, as from the extraordinary structure of the upper eyelids, which are so formed as to resemble a pair of strange sharp-pointed horns, while the width of the mouth exceeds that of its congeners, and equals half the length of its body. Seba, in fact, describes it as having two sharp horns on its head, within which its eyes are situated ; and Schneider more accurately, as a pair of accuminated callous processes, of a conical shape, placed upon the eyelids. The colour is grayish yellow, striped with brown. The body is rough, with pointed spines. The head is very large and thick, and the tongue proportionably so. Baron Cuvier assigns five species to this genus, from the works of Seba, Daudin, Spix1 and Prince Maximilian. In Mr Gray’s catalogue an additional one is furnished by Mr Wagler, the habitat of which is Asia.
Genus Dactylethba, Cuv. The south of Africa, according to Cuvier, produces a group of Batrachians which resemble the frogs in their teeth, their smooth skin, their pointed toes, those of the hind feet being deeply webbed, and the inner three having their extremity enveloped in a conical nail, which is black ; their head is small, and their mouth not very large. The tongue, attached deep in the throat, is fleshy and large ; their tympanum not apparent. These numerous distinctive characters have induced the baron to constitute a new genus under the above name, from 3αxruλ)j3jα, a
thimble.
The
smooth toad, crapaud lisse 
of Daudin
CPipa bufonia
of Merrem), belongs to it.
Genus Hyla, Laurenti ;
Calamita,
Schn. The
tree-frogs
of the English,—
Rainettes
of French authors. The Hylæ were first separated from the frogs and toads by Laurenti, and his arrangement is now universally followed. They differ from the other genera in having all the extremities of their toes enlarged, and rounded into a kind of disk or cushion, usually covered with a viscid humour, which enables them to attach themselves firmly to foreign bodies, and to climb trees. (See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 3.) Trees, in fact, constitute their abode during the whole of summer, and there they hunt for food. They, however, produce their ova in water, and shelter themselves in the mud during winter. They have a gular pouch, and are good croakers.
The disks with which the toes of the tree-frogs are provided are simply fleshy, and in tlle form of lentils. Examined with the microscope, they appear like porous sieves, from which a glutinous fluid slowly exudes ; they are usually somewhat concave, and are sometimes furnished with a distinct fold. By means of this apparatus the species can attach themselves to smooth surfaces ; they can leap from branch to branch, and can traverse twigs when agitated by the wind. They may be regarded as among the most nimble of their kind. They are, however, more tranquil than many, and watch most patiently for prey. In the day time, and especially when the sun’s heat is great, they are said to shelter themselves among the thick foliage, putting themselves in motion on the approach of evening, and then sporting with delight. The croaking of these animals is similar to that of the proper frogs, but stronger, though not quite so sharp. It is most frequently heard in wet weather ; but on a beautiful summer evening the traveller is sometimes surprised by a vast group of these hoarse musicians, assembled on the tops of the highest trees. They feed on the insect tribes. Late in the season they retire to the water, where they pass the winter in a kind of lethargy, and remain there till the spawning season has elapsed. Some Indian species deposit their eggs on the under side of leaves hanging over water ; and General Hardwicke has observed them place their ova on a leaf which stood over a pail of water, so that the young dropt into the fluid beneath. There is not a single species of the tree-frog in the British isles ; they occur, however, frequently in the more favoured climes of Europe,
and Superabound in warmer regions. The number of ascertained species is not inferior to that of the frogs proper. They are among the most interesting of the race, and many of them are very beautiful.
H. Arborea,
Cuv. ;
Λ.
Arborca,
Lin.
Common tree-frog.
In beauty of colouring, as well as in elegance of form, and general agility of movement, the tree-frog exceeds every other European species. It is found in France, Germany, and Italy; but more towards the south than north. It avoids dry situations and mountainous forests, and delights in humid woods, in hedges bordering on marshes, an⅛ in parks and gardens ornamented with water. Its principal sojourn during the summer months is the upper parts of trees, searching for insects, which it catches with extreme alacrity, stealing softly upon them, as a cat towards a mouse, and seizing them with a sudden spring of frequently more than a yard in height. It often suspends itself by its feet, or by a single foot, or even by its abdomen and drawn-up toes from a twig, or the under portion of a leaf, thus continuing beneath the shade. It is among the smallest of European frogs. Its colour is green above, more or less bright ; its belly whitish, and covered with numerous small tubercles; a dark violet-coloured streak runs along the flanks ; and the limbs are reddish. The body is smooth above, and rather short and plump ; tlle hind legs are very long and slender. The fore feet have four toes, the hind five, and all of them terminate in dilated flattish tips. The surface of the abdomen is very remarkable, being so granular, adhesive, and elastic, that it enables the animal to adhere almost to anything, even, it is said, to polished glass, at whatever inclination, or in whatever position it is placed. The spawn is deposited towards the end of April, and the perfect animal appears in August, when it ascends the neighbouring trees, and assorts with its parents. Being very noisy on the approach of rain, this species is considered as an excellent barometer ; and in the German
Ephemerides
there is an account of one which was kept in a state of domestication for seven years, and gave the greatest satisfaction from being peculiarly weather-wise.
The
Zebra hyla, H. cαlarnitα,
Gray,
Calamita maxima,
Schn., appears to be one of the largest of these slender-bodied frι ogs, a specimen described by Seba having attained the length of five inches. It is a native of Carolina and Virginia. It is of a rufous-brown colour, striped with chestnut bands ; all its feet are w, ebbed, and the toes orbicular. The
Merian hyla, H. Meriana,
Gray,
Rana Meriana,
Shaw, first depicted and described by Maria Merian, in her
Surinam,
merits a distinct notice. It is about three times the size of the common hyla ; and on each side of the neck has a remarkable protuberance, resembling an obtusely conical inflated pouch ; its hind feet are distinctly webbed. It is of a brownish-green colour above, and is variegated with patches of yellow. It is found sometimes on trees, and sometimes in water. Mad. Me-rian states that they have external ears, and that the balls on their toes facilitate their progress over the soft marshes which they frequent. The
H. tibiatrix,
Laurenti, is an American species, and is said by Seba to croak in a melodious manner during very hot weather after the setting of the sun, while in the cold and rainy season it is silent, concealing itself at the bottom of the waters.
H. lateralis,
Catesby, has been observed in Carolina, and also, it is said, in Surinam. It is usually found attached underneath the leaves of trees, concealing itself, and lying secure from birds and serpents, its most dangerous foes. They are sometimes found in vast heaps, the bushes and woods being completely covered with them ; and their croaking may be heard at the distance of whole leagues. They make prodigious leaps, and hence in the United States are called the crickets of the savannahs, their cry
