traffic for the London and Birmingham railway, or, in other 'words,whether the inhabitants of Bedford would go cheaper and quicker to London, by first getting to the !London and Birmingham railway, and then proceeding by that route to London, or whether they had better go by the old direct coach road, and
vice versa,
on their return from London, whether it would be cheaper and quicker for them to go along that railroad, and then by a cross country coach to Bedford, or continue to use the old road ?
The nearest station for the people of Bedford on the London and Birmingham railway, is at a place called Wolverton ; from Bedford to Wolverton (
p
) is 15 miles, to which add (½
b
) half the distance from London to Wolverton, which is 25½ miles, and the total 40½ miles, (½
b+p
) is the equivalent distance from London to Bedford,
via
the railway ; that is to say, by travelling along the two sides of the triangle. Now, in the stamp-office returns, it will be found that the direct road (A) is 52 miles, consequently, either in going to London, or coming from it, the people of Bedford would in each case save 11½ miles in equivalent distance, or 1 hour and 9 minutes in time, besides money. It is clear, then, that Bedford ought to be included in the traffic returns of that railway company.
The same question is proposed as to the town of Hatfield. The nearest station on the railway to this place is at Two-waters, and the distance between them (∕>) is 10 miles ; adding to this (½A), half the distance from London to Two-wa-ters, which is 10½ miles, we have (½A+∕>), the equivalent distance
via
the railroad between London and Hatfield, equal to 20⅜ miles. Turning now to the stamp-office returns, we find (A) the distance from London to Hatfield by the direct road, is also 20½ miles, and consequently, the two routes being equal, that town ought not to be included in the estimate of traffic.
It is required to know the same thing with respect to the town of Hitchen? Here the inhabitants would join the railway in question at Leighton Buzzard, and we find (p)=lG½ miles, (½A) = l9 miles, total or (½A+p) 35½ miles, whilst (A)=36 miles ; and there would be a consequent gain of half a mile in distance, or 3 minutes in time.
In the case of Oundle and London, the station where the inhabitants of that town would join the railway, is near Northampton, and we have (p)=26 miles, (½A)=32 miles, total or (½A+∕>)=58, whilst, by the stamp-office returns, we have (A)=8l miles ; consequently, there is a gain of 23 miles, or of 2 hours and 18 miuutes, by thus travelling over two sides of the triangle instead of the third.
It is desired to know, whether the inhabitants of Leicester, in their communication to and fro with Birmingham, and
vice versa
those of Birmingham in the communication with Leicester, will be benefited by the London and Birmingham railway. Here the point where each party would either join or leave the railway would be Coventry, and we have (p)=25 miles, (½A)=9 miles, total or(½A+∕>)=34 miles, whilst (Λ)=36 miles, shewing a gain of 2 miles, or 12 minutes in time.
We will throw a few more examples into a tabular form, as this part of our subject is a very important one, and cannot be too well understood. Care will, of course, be taken, that all the distances are those really existing on the respective roads in question ; and it will also be advisable to reject all minute savings from the traffic returns, in order to be under, rather than over, in the estimate.
The best way of commencing to make out the following table, will be to take a map of the railway for which it is to be formed; and this Shouldembrace a considerable portion of the adjoining country. Draw on the map a straight line from the one terminus to the other ; this will represent (Zt) in fig. 1, and from this, lay off at right angles from each of the termini, other straight lines ; these will represent
(p)
in fig. 1. We shall now shew how to ascertain the point in
(p)
from which (A) is to be drawn in each case to the more distant terminus, and then shew the mode of using this figure when thus laid down on the map.
We have given to us by the conditions of the problem.
A= y
+ P∙    <1 )
P=A-1.    (2)
A= ⅛    (3)
and from the relations of a right-angled triangle we have
λ=√a⅛λ    (4)
Substituting in this latter expression the value of (jo) from equation (2),
we get A=
⅜∕a2 +
h— — j
2 ,
∕ ———ÿ
whence we have
hxfa*
A2 +A2 —AA + -,
or, λ2 =A2 +Λt —AA+-,
A’
whence O=A2 —AA+-,
or, AA= A’+4 ;
and finally, Λ=A+ 4 = — = 1∙25 A,
4    4
and substituting this value of (A) in equation (2),
we have, »= — = 0∙75 A.
4
From this we see, that the length of
(p)
will always be three-fourths of (A), and the length of (A) once and a quarter that of (A).
On the map then, calling (a) (c) the termini, we set off on (∕t)in four directions three-fourths the length of the straight line (A), and then draw the four lines (A), (see fig. 2,) and we are sure that the four triangles (A,
p, h,) 
include every town that can by any means come to our termini to use our whole line, and if the line A was in reality a straight one on the ground, as it is in the figure, the triangle3 would include
