where extensively spread over various regions of the earth. The caymans are peculiar to America, the crocodiles, properly so called, are common to both worlds, and the gavials have hitherto been found only in Continental India. The following table will show the distribution of the family, and the amount of species, in all the great divisions of our globe ;
Asia. and’ktrici Africa. America. Doubtful.
Cayman..........O    0    0    
5    
0
Crocodile........2    112    2
Gavial............1    0    0    0    0
Total species ...3    1    1    7    2=14
Genus Gavialis, Cuv. and Geoff. We begin with the very limited genus Gavial, which, so far as known, is confined to the old world, if not to the Asiatic continent. The first description of one of these animals was given by our celebrated countryman Edwards.@@
1 Count Lacepède introduced the native name Gavial into our systematic works. The most recent researches of Cuvier have scarcely succeeded in determining whether there is more than one living species ; there appear, however, to be several fossil, and hence additional interest is excited.
In this genus the snout is slender, and very much prolonged ; the teeth are nearly uniform and alike ; the fourth of the under jaw, when the mouth is closed, locks not into a foramen in the upper jaw, but into a lateral groove only ; the hind feet are denticulated on the outer margin, and palmated to the extremity of the toes ; and there is a deep depression behind the eye.
G. Iongirostris,
Cuv. ;
Crocodilus Iongirostris,
Schn. ;
Lacerta Gangeticus,
Gmel.
The Great Gavial.
The muzzle of this species is almost cylindrical, and somewhat bent at its *xtremity ; its head is singularly broad, especially towards the back part ; the length of its muzzle to that of its body is as one to seven and a half. Its dental formulary is
∣
¾ = 106. Its scales, as in all its congeners, supply excellent specific characters. This animal appears to attain a great size. Baron Cuvier received from Mr Wallich a specimen of an individual captured near Calcutta, which was seventeen feet long ; and from a fragment in the Paris museum, it is calculated it must sometimes attain to nearly double that size. Notwithstanding its great bulk, the very slender form of its muzzle renders it much less formidable than the other and more numerous genus (Crocodilus), which also frequents the Ganges. It feeds wholly upon fish, and is not regarded as dangerous to man, a fact confirmatory of Ælian’s observation, that “ there are two kinds of crocodiles in the Ganges, the one innocent, the other cruel.” Though it has not hitherto been observed in other Asiatic rivers, it may reasonably be supposed to exist elsewhere than in the Ganges.
G. tenuirostris.
Though the materials possessed by Baron Cuvier did not enable him to come to a definitive conclusion regarding the existence of the
small gavial,
yet upon the whole he favoured its claims to being something more than the young of the preceding species ; the existence of some nearly allied fossil kinds favouring the conclusion. There is no difference in the shape and arrangement of the teeth or scales ; and the greater narrowness of the upper and back part of the head, and of the orbital foramina, are the only specific differences supplied. Its average size has not been ascertained. Like the preceding, it frequents the Ganges.
Genus Crocodilus, Cuv. The generic characters of the
true crocodiles
are sufficiently distinct. They do not possess the slender beak of the gavials ; the head is oblong,
and not half as broad as it is long ; the muzzle is oblong and depressed ; the teeth, which are somewhat unequal in their dimensions, are fifteen on each side in the lower jaw, and nineteen in the. upper ; the fourth, which are the longest, pass into furrows, and are not lodged in distinct foramina of the upper jaw ; the hind feet have usually a denticulated crest at their outer margin ; and the interval of their toes, at all events the external ones, are palmated. There is a deep hollow behind each eye.
Different species of crocodile are found in the hot regions of Asia, Africa, and America. Many bear a very close resemblance to each other, but about eight seem to be satisfactorily established. These are, the species called
charnses,
or 
tem such,—
the common crocodile of the Nile ; the
biporcatus, 
or double crested ; the
acutus, rhombifer, galeatus,
and
cataphractus
(Cuv.); to which are to be added the
Gravesii 
and
Journei
(of Bory de St Vincent). We begin with that which has been longest, and perhaps is best known, the famous crocodile of the Nile.
C. vulgaris,
Cuv. ;
Temsach
of the modern Egyptians ;
Laeerta crocodilus,
Linn. The length of the head of this species is double that of the breadth ; the snout is very ragged and unequal, especially in the old ; its eyes are more asunder than in other species. Without entering mto minute details of the number and arrangement of the scales on the neck, back, tail, &c. we shall only state, that six rows of nearly equal-sized plates run all along the back, giving it the appearance of mosaic. The colour is a bronzed green, speckled with brown ; underneath it is a yellowish-green.
These animals sometimes attain the enormous size of thirty feet ; “ and if we except,” says Lacepède, “ the elephant, the hippopotamus, some cetacea, and a few enormous serpents, they have no equal in nature.” The female lays her eggs twice or thrice in the year, but only during the hot weather, and deposits them in the sand, where they are hatched by the sun. They amount to about twenty ; and are said to be hatched after fifteen or twenty days. They are about twice the size of the goose’s egg, and it is stated that the mother takes no charge whatever of them. Indeed we believe that this maternal carelessness is characteristic of the reptile race.
This species is frequently designated the crocodile of the Nile, a name far from happy,—because other species may inhabit its waters, and the one in question may be more common elsewhere. There seems, indeed, to be no doubt that this same animal abounds in the Senegal and other rivers of Western Africa ; probably even in all the rivers of that continent, and certainly in those of Madagascar. Formerly it used to frequent the Nile as far down as the Delta, but now we must ascend to its less frequented portions before it is encountered. It was probably in reference to an individual of this species that Mungo Park relates the fact, that one of his guides across the river Gambia was suddenly seized by a crocodile and pulled under water. The negroes, however, are so familiar with these creatures, and so skilful in meeting their attacks, that they generally escape. On this occasion the negro thrust his fingers in the crocodile’s eyes with so much violence that it quitted its hold ; but seizing him again, he resorted to the same expedient, and with more success, as it again released him, appeared stupified, and swam down the river. Although its flesh has a strong musky smell, yet the inhabitants of the districts wherein it abounds frequently attach a high value to it, as, according to the testimony of Herodotus, did also some of tlle ancient Egyptians. A common method employed by the Africans for destroying the crocodile is to thrust the arm, well defended with ox-hides, down its throat, and then to plunge a dagger into its vitals. The European
1
@@@
Phil. Trans.
1756.
