a very unusual accumulation of comparisons before it can be relied on for any further purpose in argument than that which it has often served so well, namely, the repelling of captious refutations. In this kind of argument, quite as strictly as in any other instance of example, the things compared are assumed, in regard to the point of comparison, to belong to the same genus ; but there is evidently here a still greater risk than that which prevails in other reasonings of the same class, of either over-estimating or underestimating the weight of the evidence. The generic and specific names in common use alternately involve us in mistakes and help to extricate us from them. All of these are accurate for their own purposes ; but the purpose for which we use the example may, though quite legitimate, be extremely different from that which has dictated the common divisions. If, taking any number of men, who form a class in respect of social or civil relations,—a nation, a civic community, or even a large household,—we discover a certain physical peculiarity in one individual, and thence, without examination, infer it of another,—we are arguing, not from similarity, but from one of the remotest and most worthless of all analogies ; an analogy founded, not on any of those qualities of the individuals which came into view in their classification, but on one which merely happens to belong to one of them, and possibly or probably may not be found in any other, being, in short, what logicians would call an inseparable accident. On the other hand, direct and close similarities may be continually discovered between individuals which have in ordinary language no common name, and which could not be classed together for any of the practical purposes of life. Amidst the countless variety of natures and ends which divides the universe into such an interminable number of classes, genera, and species, all the individuals arc united by at least one common relation, that which the created bear to the Creator ; and when we endeavour to contemplate the world in its position towards God, we discover near and essential resemblances between the highest sentient beings and the most insignificant atoms of matter,—between the spirit of the archangel and the trodden grain of sand.
In estimating the force of Arguments from Example, our great task should always be, to discover the principle of the division which the reasoning assumes. Ifwe clearly apprehend the principle, and keep it steadily in view, we shall be able to steer safely through all the perplexities of individual cases. When the alleged point of similarity makes up the whole essence of the genus, the pioof, supposing the genus really to exist, is morally certain : when it appears on analysis to be only a separable accident of an individual, the proof is a worthless analogy. Between these two extreme points lies the wide channel through whose shoals the principle will always be able to pilot us.
ln regard to the Comparative Efficiency and the Proper Order of the several kinds of arguments, as indeed in regard to every other point essential to the rhetorical art, Aristotle will furnish us with the germ of all the principles, and with many of their elucidations; but Whately’s work is extremely valuable in this section, and will aid us scarcely less than it has aided us in the inquiry which w, e have just left. All that is most important on this subject may be comDrehended under the answers to three questions.
First, what is the Comparative Efficiency of the several sorts of arguments, considered with reference to the nature of the conclusions sought to be established by them ? Our guide answers as follows. “ Matters of opinion, as they are callcd (that is, where we are not said properly to know, but to judge), are established chiefly by Antecedent Probability (arguments of the first class, from cause to effect), though tlιe Testimony of wise men is also admissible ; past
facts, chiefly by Signs of various kinds (that term, it must be remembered, including Testimony); and future events, by Antecedent Probabilities and Examples.” Cases may often occur which form exceptions to these principles ; but reflection will easily convince every one that the outline of them here given is substantially accurate ; and any doubts which may arise on an abstract consideration of the question may be certainly removed by an examination of the most, convincing argumentative compositions. In few instances where argument is applied to practical uses, does any of the several sorts of conclusions constitute the whole of the end which the discourse proposes ; but, in every discourse, one or another of the kinds holds the most prominent place. Compositions chiefly designed for instruction or exhortation, such as ethical and most religious discourses, being principally conversant about conclusions of the first class, appeal mainly to the argument from cause to effect, strengthening this argument by authorities fairly and judiciously selected, and also making frequent use of examples, seldomer however as proofs than as illustrations, which are not introduced for the purpose of proving anything, but merely in order to place imperfectly-apprehended propositions in a stronger light. Judicial oratory, when employed on those questions which fall within the province of juries, has mainly reference to the second class of conclusions, so that signs compose the chief weapons of the legal speaker’s armoury. Harangues addressed to deliberative assemblies embrace the whole field of conclusions, but in most cases are chiefly directed tow ards those of the third class.
Secondly, what is the Comparative Efficiency of the several sorts of argument, considered with reference to our position towards the party whom we desire to convince ? Which sort is best calculated for direct Conviction ? and which for Refutation ? We again borrow an answer. “ It should be considered whether the principal object of the discourse be, to give
satisfaction to a candid mind
and convey
instruction
to those who are ready to receive it, or to
compel the assent or silence the. objections
of an opponent. The former of these purposes is in general principally to be accomplished by the former of those two great classes into which arguments were divided (viz. by those from cause to effect), the other by the latter. To whatever class, however, the arguments we resort to may belong, the general tenor of the reasoning will in many respects be affected by the present consideration. The distinction in question is nevertheless in general little attended to. It is usual to call an argument simply
strong
or
weak,
without reference to the purpose for which it was designed ; whereas the arguments which afford the most
satisfaction
to a candid mind, are often such as would have less weight in
controversy 
than many others, which, again, would he less suitable for the former purpose. For example ; the internal evidence of Christianity in general proves the most satisfactory to a believer’s mind, but is not that which makes the most show in the refutation of infidels. The arguments from analogy, on the other hand, which are the most
unanswerable,
are not so pleasing and consolatory.”
Thirdly, where we are in possession of arguments of all the kinds, all bearing on the conclusion which we wish to reach, what Arrangement of these is most effectual for producing conviction ? This question is one of the most important in rhetoric : indeed there is scarcely any other which goes so closely to the foundation of all eloquence. A just Arrangement of Arguments is indispensable towards success in conviction or persuasion ; and the leading principles of eloquence carry us by a very short journey to general rules on the subject, which may be considered as infallible. Aristotle has not enlarged on this point further than to press the necessity
of
using probative examples in the very last place ; but Whately has very justly observed that the principle should be extended much more widely. The
