Phan,
the latter part of this word, is unquestionably the same with
Pan,
the most ancient of the Egyptian gods. It , is likewise a cognate of the Hebrew Phanah,
conspexit, spectavit, vidit ;
and the radical word seems to be Phah, or Phthah, which signifies sometimes the countenance, and sometimes light. Hence
Phaethon,
which is compounded of
pha,
light ;
eût
or esA, fire ; and
on,
strength ; came to be one of the names of the Sun.
Rai,
which we commonly write
Rajah,
has long signified, amongst the Indians, a subordinate prince ; and we know that between India and Egypt there was a very early intercourse.
Raiphan,
therefore, may be either the
royal light
or the
bright prince, 
subordinate to Osiris ; and in either sense it was a very proper epithet of Sothis in the Egyptian !calendar. The word 
Rem
or
Rom,
again, for it is sometimes written Remphan, and sometimes Roropha, is no other than the Hebrew n∏, 
Rum,
high or exalted. Hence Remphan is the
high
or
exalted light,
which Sothis certainly was. (o. o. o. o.)
REMUS, the brother of Romulus, was exposed, together with his brother, by the cruelty of his grandfather. In the contest which happened between the two brothers about building a city, Romulus obtained the preference ; and Remus, for ridiculing the rising walls, was put to death by his brother’s orders, or by Romulus himself. After this murder the Romans were afflicted with a plague ; upon which the oracle was consulted, and the manes of Remus were appeased by the institution of the Remuria.
REMY, Sτ, a city of France, in the department of the Mouths of the Rhone, and arrondissement of Arles. It stands on a fruitful plain, and is celebrated for the marble found near it, as well as for valuable Roman antiquities, especially a triumphal arch, and a lofty mausoleum which is still in good preservation. The city contains 930 houses, with 6200 inhabitants, who manufacture serges and other cloths.
RENAPOOR, a town of Hindustan, in the Nizam’s territories, and province of Aurungabad, seventy-one miles north-west from Beeder. Long. 76. 55. E. Lat. 10. 20. N.
RENDSBURG, a city of the Danish dominions, in Holstein. It is built on the river Eider, by which it is divided into the old and the new town. It is strongly fortified, being the bulwark of Denmark towards Germany. The great canal ends at this place. It is a town of considerable trade, especially of breweries and distilleries ; and here is the chief government military arsenal. It contains 545 houses, and 7572 inhabitants. Long. 9. 34. E. Lat. 54. 18. N.
RENFREW, the chief town of a shire or county of the same name, in Scotland, situated on the south bank of the river Clyde, about six miles below' Glasgow, and three northeast of Paisley. It wr as made a burgh by David L, who began to reign in 1124, and is undoubtedly the most ancient town in Renfrewshire. In 1396 Robert III. raised it to the rank of a royal burgh, and it is the only place in the county which enjoys that distinction. The name is apparently derived from 
rhyη
in the British, or
rinn
in the Gaelic, both meaning a point of land ; and/rew or
frau,
in the British, meaning a flow of water. This forms an apt description, the town being situated on a point of land near the conflux of the rivers Clyde and Cart. Assuming that the name
Renfrew
was anciently applied to the site of the burgh, it is easy to understand how it would be given to the burgh itself, and afterwards be extended first to the barony, and then to the sherift'dom.
Renfrew possesses considerable historical interest. Here Somerled, Lord of the Isles, who rose in rebellion against Malcolm IV., was defeated and slain in 1164. Thefamily of Stewart had their common residence at this place before they were called to the throne. Even after that event Robert II., and probably also some of his successors, occasionally resided here. The mansion of the Stew arts no longer exists j but its site is still called “ Castlehill,” and near it is
“ the King’s Meadow.” In former times the waters of the Clyde separated into two branches at Renfrew, and formed an insular piece of ground, or
inch,
on which there stood another ancient edifice, called “ the Inch Castle.”
This town had once a little foreign trade. In a charter granted by James VI., in tlle year 1614, it is described as the principal port on thc Clyde. A century later, its chief traffic was with Ireland. At present, some vessels in the inland trade load and unload at the harbour. About fifty years ago, a navigable canal was formed between tlle town and the river ; and at the mouth of this canal a commodious quay was built in 1835, at an expense of about L.800. Some salmon-fishings on the Clyde have long belonged to the burgh. The principal occupation of the inhabitants is hand-loom weaving, in which 561 persons were employed in the year 1836. That Renfrew has but little participated in the prosperity which commerce and manufactures have diffused all around, is evident from the fact, that the population of the parish, which in 1801 had amounted to 2031, had in 1831 increased to only 2833. It contains a constituency of ninety-five qualified voters, and is joined with Ruther-glen, Dumbarton, Kilmarnock, and Port-Glasgow, in sending a member to parliament.
RENFREWSHIRE, a county in Scotland, lying between 55. 40. 40. and 55. 58.10. north latitude, and 4.15. and 4. 52. 30. west longitude, is bounded on the east by Lanarkshire, on the south by Ayrshire, and on the north and west by the river and frith of Clyde, which separate it from the shires of Dumbarton and Argyle, excepting a section of about 1300 imperial acres, which is situated on the north bank of the Clyde, opposite the town of Renfrew. Its greatest length is thirty-one miles and a half, and its greatest breadth thirteen miles and a fourth. Its area is 241 square miles, or 154,240 acres, of which about 100,000 are cultivated, 20,000 uncultivated, and 34,240 unprofitable. Notwithstanding the small extent of this shire, its manufactures and commerce render it one of the most important in Scotland.
At the epoch of the Roman invasion, in the first century of the Christian era, this part of Scotland was inhabited by a Celtic tribe, called by the invaders the E>amnii. After the withdrawal of the Romans, it was comprehended in the British kingdom of Stratliclyde.
The district which now forms the county of Renfrew, at least the greater part of it, was denominated, from one of its rivers, Strathgryfe, the valley of the Gryfe, and at one time formed part of the shire of Lanark or Clydesdale. It was the chief patrimony of the great stewards of Scotland, to whom it was granted by the sovereign in the twelfth century. Afterwards it was called the barony of Renfrew, from the burgh of that name, where the stewards long had their principal residence. In 1404, thirty-three years after the accession of the house of Stewart to the Scottish throne, King Robert III. granted this barony, and the other portions of the estates of the steward, to his son and heir James; since which time the eldest son of the sovereign has, besides his other titles, borne that of “ Baron of Renfrew.” Soon afterwards this barony was erected into a distinct sheriffdom, the courts of which were held at Renfrew till the year 1705, when they were, for convenience sake, removed to Paisley. In 1815 the county was formed into two wards, termed the Upper and the Lower, with a sheriff-substitute for each, Paisley and Greenock being the seats of their respective courts.
Renfrewshire comprehends twenty-one parishes, besides small portions of those of Beith and Dunlop in Ayrshire, and Govan in Lanarkshire. Two of the parishes, Eagle-sham and Cathcart, belong to the presbytery of Glasgow ; the other nineteen composed the presbytery of Paisley for a long time prior to the year 1834, when two presbyteries w, ere formed ; that of Paisley, consisting of twelve of these nineteen parishes ; and that of Greenock, consisting of the
