Several varieties of rhubarb occur in commerce. The first and most esteemed is
Turhey
or
Russia
rhubarb, which was formerly brought to Europe chiefly through the Turkish provinces of Asia Minor, but is now imported through Russia. It is brought from the native country to the frontier town of Kiachta in Siberia, where it is examined by a Russian government officer. All the pieces which are of bad quality are rejected and burned, and those which are good are transmitted to Moscow and St Petersburg, where they are again inspected, and any inferior pieces picked out. From this careful examination Russian rhubarb is always of good quality, and bears a higher price than any other kind.
The pieces of Russian rhubarb are generally from one and a half to two inches broad, sometimes of a flat shape, but more commonly two or three inches long, and somewhat conical. The external surface is always irregular and angular, the bark apparently having been removed in slices. They are always perforated by one large hole, through which the cord has been passed in drying them ; occasionally some smaller holes are observed, not passing completely through, which have been made in Russia, for the purpose of examining the interior of the specimens. The colour externally is of a bright golden-yellow, owing to the pieces being covered by powder, formed by their friction upon each other. When broken across they present an irregular and rough surface, having a mottled appearance, owing to the interlacing of yellow and brownish-red veins, which are more distinctly seen when the surface is cut smooth. The smell of tlle rhubarb is strong and peculiar, and the taste is bitter, astringent, and slightly aromatic. Under the teeth good Russia rhubarb feels gritty, owing to the presence of small crystals of oxalate of lime, which are dispersed in tufts through the root, and which may be seen under the microscope, in a piece which has been boiled in water.
The second variety of rhubarb, though commercially distinct from the Russian, is perhaps originally derived from the same source. It is called
East India
or
Chinese
rhubarb, being imported chiefly from Canton or Singapore. It is distinguished from Russian rhubarb by the pieces being larger and heavier, and by their surface being not angular, but rounded, the bark having apparently been removed by scraping, and not by slicing. The holes by which it is perforated are generally smaller than those of the Russian rhubarb, and the portions of the root surrounding the perforation are frequently decayed. The fracture is uneven, and has a mottled appearance, but is usually of a darker colour than the Russian kind. The smell and taste of the Chinese is inferior to that of the Russian, but not in a very marked degree ; and it is generally equally gritty under the teeth. The powder of Chinese rhubarb has rather a darker tint than that of the Russian ; but the latter is seldom found in the shops pure, and the difference generally is not very apparent. As the Chinese rhubarb is not subjected to the same rigid examination and selection as that brought through Russia, it is of inferior quality, and brings a much lower price in the market. Thus, whilst Russia rhubarb in bond is quoted in the official returns of the prices current, at eight shillings and threepence per pound, the East India is stated to bring only from two shillings and sixpence to four shillings. It does not appear, however, that the Chinese rhubarb is in any essential respect inferior as a medicine to the Russian.
Another variety of rhubarb has been described under the name of
Dutch trimmed,
or
Batavian,
which, like the Chinese, is brought from Canton or Singapore, and is always quoted in the prices current as a distinct commercial kind. It is said to resemble the Russia rhubarb in external characters, but is not superior in value to the common Chinese sort, as it appears from the official returns that it brings the same price in the market.
The third commercial variety of rhubarb is the
English,
or, as it might more appropriately be called,
European ;
for what is called in France
French
rhubarb is merely an equivalent sort grown in that country. The English rhubarb appears to be chiefly the roots of
Rh. palmatum ;
it is cultivated to a large extent, especially at Banbury in Oxfordshire, where it was first extensively grown about the year 1780, by a Mr Hayward. Towards the end of last century many attempts were made to cultivate the rhubarb in England for medicinal use, accounts of which have been preserved in the Transactions of tlle Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. The expectations which were then formed, and the opinions entertained, of the qualities of the English rhubarb were very sanguine ; but though it is still cultivated to a considerable extent for this purpose, it is well known to be very inferior to the foreign kinds. In France a great many varieties of rhubarb are cultivated at a place called Rheumpole, in the department of Morbihan : they are chiefly
Rh. undulatum, Rh. rhapοnticum,
and
Rh. compactum.
The cultivation of 
Rh. palmatum
there has been abandoned, but for what reason is not very apparent. The produce of this cultivation is what is sold in France as
French
rhubarb.
English rhubarb is found in the shops under two forms ; either in pieces cut so as to resemble some of the Asiatic kinds, in which case it is called
dressed
or
trimmed ;
or in cylindrical pieces four or five inches long, and about one inch thick, which are obviously the smaller portions of the root dried entire or longitudinally split. This last kind is termed
stick
rhubarb. The first of these is the only one which can be mistaken for foreign rhubarb, but it may at once be distinguished by its being very much lighter than any of the Asiatic kinds, and by its being, especially towards the centre, of a much softer texture. Its fracture, like that of the Russian and Chinese rhubarb, is marked by the reticulated veins, but it has generally rather a pinkish tint. It is sometimes, though not commonly, gritty under the teeth ; it has much less astringency and bitterness to the taste than the Asiatic rhubarb, being generally somewhat mucilaginous ; and its smell, though often equally strong, is much less aromatic and agreeable. The external appearance of European rhubarb is often very deceptive, for it is a common practice to rub the pieces over with the powder of the Turkey rhubarb, to make it pass for the more valuable drug ; but its pinkish colour is easily observed on Brushing the specimen, and its light weight and softer texture at once proclaim the difference.
In selecting rhubarb, the pieces should be found to have a good colour and smell, and to be of a considerable specific gravity. Those which are worm-eaten, or are of a dirty-brown or blackish colour, should be rejected ; and, to ascertain these points, brushing the surface should never be neglected, as inferior kinds are very frequently disguised by unprincipled dealers, by covering the surface with powder of good rhubarb ; and worm holes are sometimes concealed by stopping them with a paste made of the powder of genuine rhubarb and water.
The chemical analysis of rhubarb is still very imperfect. A yellowish crystallizable principle has been obtained from it, to which the names of Rheine, Rhaponticine, and Rhabarbarine have been given ; but these various terms have obviously been applied by different chemists to the same substance. This appears to be merely the colouring matter of rhubarb, and not its active principle, which may still be regarded as unknown. Whatever be the nature of the active part of rhubarb, as it exists in the plant it is soluble both in water and alcohol. Water takes up more of the purgative and less of the astringent principles of rhubarb than alcohol ; hence infusion is a good liquid form for administering this medicine as a laxative. The watery preparations of rhubarb, however, should always be made
