one
only is removed at
b b.
In performing this manœuvre the workman must be careful to have his net hung before him in its proper position, viz. in the order in which the rows were netted, as in fig. 5. This requires attention, because, if either of the sides
c
or
d
were uppermost, the mischief would be increased when he came to cut away according to the above instructions. The next thing to be done is to unpick the knots of the old meshes, o,
a, α, a, a, a ; 
but the lateral knots c, tf, must
not
be unpicked, for that would destroy the adjoining sound meshes; for the same reason, only
one
side of the meshes ό,
b
is cut. We must .Suppose, then, that the meshes represented by the dotted fines are entirely removed ; the next thing to be done is to replace them. It is evident that this cannot be properly accomplished unless the inserted meshes resemble as accurately as possible those that have been removed. A practised hand will effect this without a spool, but some skilful workmen think that it is infinitely less troublesome, and that the required regularity of the meshes is better insured, if a spool be used suitable to the meshes of the old net. Having filled a
small
needle with twine, make fast the end above the knot at K (fig. 5), hold the spool and needle in the usual way, and take up the loops L, M, N, as in common netting ; when at N, lay aside the spool, and make the side NO. This is done by means of the
bend-knob
the angle P being the
bend
or loop of the knot. The second row is now to be netted in the same way as the first, and so on with the rest, the single side at the end of each row being managed as at NO, and leading down to the row beneath. We have supposed the workman to have begun and ended this first row, netting from left to right; to work back the second row, he has simply to get on the other side of his net, or to turn the latter over, as may be most convenient, and thus to net on as usual from left to right, changing at the end of each row either the position of his net or of his own person. We shall next suppose that the required number of rows, save one, is completed ; wτ e must insert a
junction
row between the row QRST, and that of the old net VWXY. This is done without a spool, by making the side TV fast at V with a
bend-knot 
round the loop of the
old
net at V ; then the side VS with a
bend-knot
at S, round the loop of the
new
piece at S ; then the sides SW, WR1 RX, XQ, QY, in the same manner. Care must be taken that these sides be of the same length as tlιe sides of the other meshes. At the beginning K and the end Y of your work, leave ends
e e,
to prevent the knot slipping. In fig. 5 three rows have been removed, and it will be seen that those loops which have only
one
side removed, are diagonally opposite to each other, and thus it is when an
uneven
number of rows is to be cut away ; but when an
even
number is removed, those loops of which only one side is cut are at opposite angles of ⅛e orifice, but on the same side of the square. 6.
Oblong and square netting.
If it be required to have the net with meshes setting in squares with their sides, accurately at right angles with each other, like the squares in a sash-window-frame, the following method is to be pursued. Net one loop for the first row, draw the spool out and net two loops for the second row, the additional loop being obtained by taking up that one loop which formed your first row twice, or, as it is technically termed,
by setting in a false mesh.
Your second row will thus consist of two loops. Remove the spool, begin the third row, which is to consist of three loops, the additional one being gained as before. Continue thus adding a loop at the
end οi'
each row until you have made your half square as large as you require ; the two
selvages
on each side of your netting forming two sides of your square ; then, before you begin to form the other two sides of your square, net one row of
dead
netting, 
». e.
do not increase or diminish anywhere ; but at the
end 
of the following rows set in a
stole
mesh, ι'. e. take up the
two last loops of the row together. Your net will at last be reduced to one loop again, and will, when stretched out, form a complete square, and all the meshes will stand square with each other. But, supposing you want your net to be longer than it is wide, and yet the meshes composing it to be square, as in the other, you are to proceed as follows : Form half a square as before, the length of one side of which will determine the width of the oblong to bc made. When this is done, you must set in a
false mesh
at the
end
of one rotv, and a
stole
mesh at the
end
of the other row. Continue thus adding and diminishing
alternately,
until your oblong is of the required length, aad this is ascertained by measuring the long side of the netting from
a
to 
b
(fig. 6), from the corner at
a
to the last knot at
b.
Finish off so as to net the part expressed by dotted lines in fig. 6, as you did in the case of the square net, viz. by taking two loops up at once at the
end of each
row. In the
oblong
you need not net a row of plain loops before you begin to finish off, as was done in the
square net.
Oblong and square nets, when worked as now directed, will, when finished, appear in the shape of a lozenge, and so will all the meshes of which they are composed; but when stretched out with the sides at right angles, each to the other, tlle whole net will assume its proper shape. It adds to the finished appearance of the net, if, in making the last single loop of the net, the spool be withdrawn before the knot is
taught,
and
then 
draw the twine up ; the last loop is thus, as it were,
absorbed,
instead of remaining there to spoil the neatness of the work. The single loop, too, with which tlle net was begun, may have its knot sufficiently loosened to enable the workman to tighten up the loop and make it
vanish,
as he did at the other end. A little practice will demonstrate this clearly.
Many net-makers consider it a great saving both of time and twine to make their
hay-nets,
and the like, after this manner ; besides which, the
selvage
thus formed along each side of the net affords sufficient strength without any additional cord to border it. 7.
How to net a round or cylindrical net without having to join.
Net any given number of loops, and, when you come to the end of the row, instead of turning the net over to net a second, keep the spool in the last loop, and with the needle pick up the
flrst 
loop of the row just finished, and net into it in the usual manner ; thus the row will be united. Continue to take up each loop on your right hand in succession, as in ordinary netting, and thus go on netting round and round until you have obtained the required length. The rows will resemble the turns of a spiral spring descending from the top to
tlle 
bottom. 8.
How to make a bag-net from a square.
Net a piece of
dead netting
containing any given number of loops in the row, observing always an
odd
number, as 3, 5, 7, 9, H, according to the proposed size of the bag ; net double the number of rows that there are loops in the row save one, as 5, 9, 13, 17, 21. This done, draw the foundation string, viz. the string on which you netted the
lever,
and fix it in the middle of your square, then net round and round it. The corner loops must be carefully worked for the first few rounds, to make them set even. It is always in the workman’s pow’er to increase the circumference of his bag as he proceeds from the bottom to the mouth, by setting in
false meshes.
In doing this, however, he must observe regularity, and take care to insert his
quarterings 
at equal distances, else the net will be lop-sided, and distorted. 9.
Ofjoiuing two nets together.
Apply one net on the other, supposing each to contain the same number of meshes in the rows to be united, and that the meshes are of the same size ; then, with a spool a ftdl quarter less in size than that on which the nets were
breaded,
net one row along the margins to be joined, taking up tw o loops on the needle,
i. c.
one mesh of each net together; or, if the object be to join the first with the last row of the same net,
