tive towns which is nearest the largest terminus. For this purpose memorandum-books should be famished them to note down all that passes. These should, at the end of their twelve hours’ beat, be digested into printed forms, where each class is to be placed in its proper column, and any remarks made, if necessary. The forms are then to be daily transmitted by post to the secretary, who should make it his business to ascertain that, by fairs, races, elections, or any other causes of local excitement, the traffic is not in an unusual state. He is then to consider attentively the returns he has received, discriminating that which would be available for the railway in question, from that which would not, and bring the whole series into one general total, under the head of “ direct traffic.” The men are also to make a return, as nearly as they can, of the number of persons travelling in each vehicle, the quantity of goods in each waggon, van, cart, &c., distinguishing the nature of it, when practicable ; also the number of all kinds of cattle passing the road, and where all the various passengers and goods are being conveyed to, as far as can be ascertained.
A similar series of observations must be carried on along the canals, if any, which lead from those parts of the line likely to become available for the intended railway, distinguishing the nature and quantity of the traffic. Most canal-boats are marked at the head and stern with the draught of water ; and by finding out what they sink for every half-ton, a sufficiently near estimate may be found of the weight they carry. In certain situations the entries at the custom-house will be useful auxiliaries ; the returns from clerks of markets will often materially assist as checks, as will also the rental of the various turnpikes ; and no means are to be neglected to obtain a fair and honest statement of the general traffic in actual existence along the proposed line.
The next object is to find out what will be the probable increase on this existing traffic, when it shall be carried so much quicker and cheaper by a railway. The usual method of doing this has been to assume some ratio of increase, deduced from other undertakings of a similar nature, and two to one have been considered rather under than over the truth ; but when it is remembered that the increase of passengers, these being the main contributors to a railway, has been, in all proportions, up to eighty to one, it is obvious that this is a very uncertain mode of ascertaining such an essential element.
A much better method of arriving at this point will be to take, with the help of a map, all those stage-coaches which run from places where travellers can go cheaper and quicker by the proposed railway. The numbers of these, their daily journeys and their mileage, can be readily got from the stamp-office returns, printed in Robson’s
Directory.
When these various returns and data of every possible kind have been collected, and information has been brought to bear from every quarter whence it can, by any means, be obtained, the whole must be drawn up ready for calculation, so as at last to exhibit, in the simplest manner in which it can be shewn, a tabular result not only of the existing traffic, but also of that which can be affected by the proposed railway under any circumstances, which latter may be called “ contingent traffic.”
The best mode of computing the data, as above described, is to multiply the distance between the stations by the number of coaches ; then by the number of daily or weekly journeys made by each ; and then by the number of passengers they may fairly be presumed to carry. By proceeding in this manner, the last results, in this case, can be added in a column, which will give the number of passengers carried one mile, daily or weekly, as the case may be. This, divided by the number of miles there will be on the intended railway, and augmented so as to exhibit the yearly quantity, will give the first step in the inquiry. The same method exactly is to be made use of for the canal traffic, if any,
Substitutingtons for passengers, which is also to be done with the waggons, vans, and other public conveyances.
The contingent traffic, or that which is obtained from the stamp-office returns, is to be handled in a similar manner, only taking care that the various coaches and other vehicles are only taken for that distance which, in all probability, they will go upon the railway. When the whole is reduced, it must be put into money, and will then contrast with the amount of the same quantity of traffic at existing prices.
It is very easy to determine a limit beyond which none of this contingent traffic will, by any possibility, be available for a railway. We shall shew how this is done, as it may serve thus far as a guide, so that no place beyond the limit need, of course, be paid any attention to.
Inany triangle
a, c, d,
(fig. 1), let (
ad
) represent any increment uniiυrmly generated with any given velocity (
h
l, and let
(ac)
and (
cd
) represent any other increment uniformly generated with any other given velocities (
b
)and (
p
). Now all these velocities being in this case comparable with each other, if we represent the different increments by the times in which they are generated, we may shew by the respective portions
(ad)    (a
c) and
(cd),
the progress of any object
whose motion is uniform.
Let (
ad
) represent a part of the road now used between any two towns (a) and (
d
), let
(ae)
   be a portion of a railroad, and let
(cd)
be a cross-road joining the railroad
(ac)
with the turnpike road
(ad).
Then if the velocity
(b) (p)
and (
h
) in the respective times
(t") (t')
and (
t
) are such, that.
t" + t
, -≈≤≤ or=
t
the point
d
would be at the limit, and no person beyond it could travel along (
de
) and
(cd)
in order to get from (d) to (a) with advantage.
As a railway may, in general, be taken in comparison with a coach-road, both as to time and price, in the ratio of 1: 2, price may at once be excluded from the investigation, and time only taken into account ; because those to whom time is an object in travelling, by attending to that alone, will evidently reap, along with it, the benefit of cheapness also ; and those to whom price is an object, will, in attending to time only, gain that advantage, and in conjunction with it, the minimum of price likewise. Particular circumstances may, in a few cases, modify this ; but the general features of the comparison will be as above.
Taking, then, the ratio of
p∙. b—h : b
=2 :1, and considering
p : h
to be a ratio of equality, and that for one hour
h=p
=10 miles, and consequently,
b
=20 miles, or, in other words, that on the railroad (
b
), the rate of travelling will be 20 miles an hour, while on the direct road
(h),
and the cross road
(p),
the rate will be at 10 miles an hour ; we have then only to add the whole of the perpendicular
(p) 
to half the base
(b).
and subtract the same from the hypo-thenuse (h), which is got from the stamp-office returns for each town, and the remainder, if any, will be the miles gained by travelling over the two sides of the triangle instead of over the third, and if there is no remainder, that particular town is beyond the limits, and will not be benefited by the railway, consequently, it must be rejected from the traffic returns.
It is well there were no railroads in Euclid’s days. We do not know what he would have said to our thus making the perpendicular and half the base equal to the hypothenuse ; but such is the practical fact in the question we are considering, and this fact has been exemplified on every railway where the traffic can partly be derived from towns right and left of the line, which is the case almost invariably. We shall give a few instances, taken from the traffic returns of the London and Birmingham railway.
It is required to know whether the coaches running from Bedford to London ought to be included in the returns of
