so difficult as philosophical generalization, demands a wider union of powers and knowledge, died entirely away, leaving the rhetorical systems as bare of tlle highest kind of illustration as Aristotle’s work, while they were a thousand times more complicated in the rules which they expounded.
Since the revival of learning, men seem in general to have derived their opinions as to the real nature and value of the ancient rhetoric, not so much from the works of Aristotle, or even those of Cicero, Quinctilian, and Hermogenes, as from treatises like the curious rhetorical dialogue of Alcuin with Charlemagne, a production which, with its burdensome, wearisome, and useless subdivisions, its odd, impossible, and unpractical examples, and its confident claims to infallibility, is a fair specimen, but by no means one of the worst, of those treatises which fill the collection of the Rhetores Latini, and the separate volumes of such men as Theon, Aphthonius, and the other Greek rhetoricians of the declining ages. We have consequently, in modern times, run into the opposite extreme; and, as we have already admitted, the prevalent tendency has long been to deny that the systematic rules are of any use whatever. The writings ofa few very able men have been insufficient to stem the current, although the list of rhetorical w’riters includes Bacon in our own country, and Fenelon in France.
But we must return to the two arguments against rhetorical studies, from which we have diverged in order to collect materials for answering them ; and, first, as to the objection from the supposed experience of modern times. In the first place, it will surely be confessed that there is an antecedent presumption against the supposition that the study of principles is unnecessary ; and, in the next place, any appeal to the success of modern oratory or prose literature in general, in proof that certain methods are useless which the ancients practised and the moderns do not, would require to be accompanied by an assertion,—which, if we are competently informed, we shall scarcely venture to make,— that in excellence of composition, taken in its highest sense, modern oratory and prose literature are not inferior to those of the ancients. But, further, we must also recollect that the study of models is in itself a study of principles, if it be conducted with intelligence, or so as to serve any good purpose whatever ; for he who adopts this mode of study to the exclusion of the other, is just playing the part of a traveller, who, undertaking a journey on foot through a difficult country, begins hy throwing his map into the fire, and resolves to trust to the guidance of chance passengers. We are, indeed, strongly inclined to hold one doctrine, which, if it be sound, would compel us to believe that the immediate study of the principles is far more necessary in modern times than it ever could have been in the ancient world. We believe that, for the attainment of a certain degree of success, this study may be much more safely dispensed with by the public speaker than by the author who gives his thoughts to the world in books. The former is, in the delivery of his harangues, instituting per force a series of experiments, from which, doubtless at the expense of many a mortifying failure, he must, if he possesses natural powers capable of producing cloquence in any circumstances, at length learn, or approach to learning, both the principles of eloquence, and its most useful practical rules. The author almost wholly wants this aid. His experiments, if they are to be called so, are usually few, and he has but the most imperfect means of judging what has been their issue ; for the success or failure of a book is dependent on so many circumstances, that it can seldom enable the writer to determine how far it has been owing to his success or failure in the great end of composition. But, lastly on this head, a late writer, Whately, has thrown out a hint which has in it much truth as well as ingenuity. He remarks that, after all, the modern dis
avowal of rhetorical studies may not be strictly consistent with truth. The suspicion of rhetorical artifice, he says, creates such distrust that every one is eager to disclaim it, and none more so than those who have availed themselves of it most widely and successfully. The ancients were freed from the necessity of this venial duplicity by the peculiar nature of their education, in which, under the name of rhetorical training, were included all the branches of learning requisite for the accomplishment of a man qualified to shine in political life. The Greek rhetorician taught his pupil the principles of politics, legislation, and every department of general knowledge ; and the pupil, when he had taken his place in the nation as a public man, was called an orator 
(∕⅛rn
∣
l)
and not, as we should now call him, a statesman. No man required to conceal his having studied the subsidiary sciences ; or rather every one wished to have it believed that he was familiar with them ; and his skill in rhetoric proper escaped notice in the general muster. The dissimilar position of the ancients is further illustrated by a second consideration, which is commented on for a different purpose by another writer of high authority, namely, that the Greek orators seem always to have had in view the communication of an æsthetical pleasure to their hearers, as an end scarcely subordinate even to the principal one of moving their minds to belief and action. An assembly which did not listen to Demosthenes with the less admiration, nor with the less disposition to be convinced by his argument, for knowing that he had devoted months to the preparation of his speech, and who recognised in some of its most impassioned appeals whole paragraphs which they had heard him pronounce before, were not likely to be staggered by reflecting that the speaker had long studied oratory under Isocrates.
But the second objection, levelled against the preceptive section of rhetoric, asserts that every system of the kind is incomplete, and therefore useless. The allegation of incompleteness is perfectly true; but it does not warrant the inference. No rational inquirer into rhetorical principles has ever pretended to have fully explored all the regions of mind over which eloquence holds its empire ; indeed, in entering on such investigations, as far as they involve simply matters of fact and experience, he is encroaching on the province of other branches of the mental philosophy, and abandoning that of rhetoric, which, receiving its facts from without, busies itself properly in determining the relation which the facts bear to a certain end. Neither from ordinary and unscientific observation, nor from the systematic inquiries of philosophy, do we yet know nearly all that may be learned as to the principles of the mental economy ; and, moreover, when psychology and its kindred sciences shall have reached their Utmost development, they will still find their province to be surrounded on all sides by a darkness which created intellect cannot penetrate. But those who have studied the philosophy of mind most practically and most profoundly, are also those who can bear the most decided testimony to the fact, that the incompleteness of its results does not deprive it either of interest or usefulness. The same thing is even more palpably true of this particular branch of inquiry, in which every experiment is instituted with a direct view to a certain practical end.
The avowed incompleteness, however, not merely of all existing, but of all possible, rhetorical systems, not only forms no valid ground for denying their usefulness, but may suggest very strong positive arguments in their favour. Those rhetorical rules which are really sound and useful do not mark out, like guide-posts inscribed with the penalties of a turnpike statute, one fixed road in which they tell the student of eloquence that he must travel, although there are other roads which will equally well lead him to his journey’s end : the most important and certain
