Vertical
deflection.
Liverpool and Manchester 62 lb., parallel, 3 feet
on blocks.............................................Ό3853
Manchester and Bolton, on longitudinal bearings................................................... ∙05703
Grand Junction 65 lb., parallels, on blocks,
4
feet bearings......................................... ∙0301
„    the    chair under the rail............. ∙0149
„    the    block under the chair.......... ∙O7l4
„    65 lb. parallels on sleepers.........∙10293
„    the    chair under the rail............. ∙07l7
„    the    sleeper under the chair........∙0511
Engine.    Coaches.
Grand junction, lateral deflection
Ί
∙O1615    ∙01
on blocks,...................rail J    °
Do.    do,............chair    ∙0200    Ol 35
Do.    do,............block    Ό053    ∙0007
Do. on sleepers...............rail ∙0188    ∙012
Do.    do,.............chair    ∙0ll2    ∙077
Do.    do,.............sleeper    ∙0125    ∙008
Do. on longitudinal timbers..rails ∙02985    ∙022J
Do.    do,..............chair    ∙0387    ∙0265
From the tables in the report whence we have formed the above means, we find that a 60 lb. parallel rail at 45 inches bearing, deflects only ∙0261, while a 62 lb. parallel at 36 inches bearings, deflects ∙03853, and a fish-belly at 36 inches bearing, and 50 lbs. in weight, only deflects ∙03277.
In the 50 lb. rail upon blocks, at the joint chair, there is moredeflection than in the middle of the rail, and about three times as much as at a single chair with the weight of a coach ; whereas, in the 60 lb. rail, the deflection is more at the single chair than at the joint, but, in this case also, it is least in the middle of the rail with a coach. In the 62 lb. rail it is also greater at the single than the joint chair, and
less in the middle of the rail than at the single chair.
In the Manchester and Bolton experiments, the rail deflects more than the timbers at the transoms and joints, but in the middle, the timber deflects more than the rail. With the 65 lb. rails, either on sleepers or blocks, the deflection is considerably more, either with an engine or a coach, at the chairs than mid-way between them ; and whilst the rail only deflects ∙0301, and the chairwhich supports it less than half this, namely, 0149; the block which supports the chair deflects five times as much as the chair itself, namely, ∙07l4. These are called incontrovertible experiments.
In addition to this, Mr. Babbage, no mean authority, who has seen the original records of the experiments, which the report made to the directors does not contain, states in his speech at the meeting of Great Western proprietors, held on the 9th Januaryl839, that with respect to the increased power required through the resistance of the air, that instead of 15 per cent, being necessary to gain an increase of speed of 3 per cent., it turned out that from the use of the same formula, and the same experiment whence Mr. Wood had deduced the above results, that the increased power required was only as 2 to 1, instead of 5 to 1, as stated bv Mr. Wood.
It is astonishing to see what mistaken ideas many persons have entertained amongst the proprietors of this railway. One stated thatalthoughthe resistanceof the air might have been known, yet, it was never taken into consideration at such speed as had now been attained in railway travelling. Wllat, then, becomes of the experiments of Robins and Hutton, which upset the ancient parabolic theory of projectiles, and established the present practical system of gunnery ; the deduction of these writers were carried up to velocities considerably greater than that in which air can rush into a vacuum, that circumstance forming one great guide jn establishing their results.
Another person wished to know, when such a very great
advance had been made by Mr. Brunel in so short a time, by .which, with fully one-third less fuel the load drawn by the North Star engine, was increased from 16 tons to 40, at an increase in velocity also ; why the same could not be done with all other engines upon narrower railways, and thus an equal effect produced with a much less costly mode of construction. The simple answer to which is, that on the railways with the original guage, the engines have been made gradually more and more perfect up to their present state ; whereas on the Great Western, this has yet to be done. Mr. Brunel, in the above improvement on the North Star, has not made any new discovery in the organization of a locomotive ; he has has only brought its mode of operation nearer to that which is in action on other lines of railway.
Other persons have said, that granting Mr. Brunel does obtain the speed and power he has anticipated, his engines will then do too much, that passengers will never be fouud to assemble in sufficient numbers to fill such heavy trains, and that consequently all the extra cost of the new system will in the end be thrown away. This argument is no more tenable than the others, and throughout the whole inquiry there appears a lamentable want of nearly every requisite for coming to a right conclusion; even the instruments used in the experiments are inadequate for that which they were intended to shew ; of those used to ascertain the motion of the carriages, Mr. Babbage states, that having tried three similar ones of different lengths merely, he could make each of them tell different stories, and whichever he pleased give the greatest result; also that when he tried the very same instrument used in the experiments of Mr. Wood, instead of finding any thing like corresponding measures of the oscillations, his so grossly exceeded those which formed the basis of the report, that they were beyond all magnitude ; and after travelling 120 miles in those trials, he came to the conviction that every thing in the shape of an experiment connected with that instrument, must be thrown overboard.
No inquiry, in fact, could have ended more unsatisfactorily than have these experiments on the Great Western railway; and their records, which should, above all things, together with any formulæ used, have accompanied the report, w-ere not published with it. This is the most unfortunate error
of 
all ; for as they were chiefly made by other persons, and not by Mr. Wood, they require to be examined, first, as to their correctness as experiments, and secondly, as to how they have been dressed up to produce to the proprietors. In the first case, there might be some little difficulty, but in the second, every proprietor could have judged for himself, and he ought to have had the means put in his hands to do so. Strange to say, too, Mr. Wood has quarrelled with his own report, and declares he made the North Starengine do just the same as Mr. Brunel has done. Why then did he not publish this himself, instead of giving a very different experiment, after placing which in his own report, he blames the
directors for sending it forth to the public ?
The whole of the proceedings in this discussion serve to shew, as we have before stated, that it is high time some government measure was brought forward to regulate, at least, the general principles of railways ; many persons are afraid of this interference with what is justly considered private rights, but to these we would say, that on several of the leading lines in England, a far worse oligarchy now exists than can be called into operation by any measure of government, thoroughly gifted as it would be in parliament by the numerous members of both houses who are interest
ed
so many ways in the right management of these important concerns.
The result of the Great Western discussion is as follows : The unanimous abandonment of the piles ; the substitution of a larger scantling of timber and a heavier rail ; and the retention of the wide guage and continuous bearings. As far as the railway public are concerned, they will be but
