tors, in twelve vols. 8vo ; Dionysius Halicarnassensis, in seven vols. ; and Plutarch’s Works, in nine vols.
REITRA, a city of the Austrian province of the Hither Danube, in Hungary, and the capital of a circle of the same name, which comprehends 412 towns and villages, with 368,000 inhabitants. The city is situated on the river of the same name, is the see of a bishop, is defended by a strong citadel, and contains 510 houses, with 4100 inhabitants, who grow much good wine. Long. 18. 58. 54. E. Lat. 48. 19. 10. N.
REJANG, a country in the island of Sumatra, bounded on the east by the territory of Musi, where the Palembang river takes its rise. Bencoolen river is the limit on the south-east. The other principal rivers are the Laye, the Pally, and the Sunzedano, on all of which the English have factories. The Rejangs are divided into tribes, of which there are four principal ones. They live in villages under the government of a head or magistrate, and the inhabitants seldom exceed 100.
RELAND, Adrian, an eminent orientalist, born at Ryp, in North Holland, in 1676. During three years’ study under Surenhusius, he made uncommon progress in the Hebrew, Syriac, Chaldaic, and Arabic languages, and these languages were always his favourite study. In 1701, he was, by the recommendation of King William, appointed professor of oriental languages and ecclesiastical antiquities in the university of Utrecht, and died of the small-pox in 1718. He was distinguished by his modesty, humanity, and learning ; and carried on a correspondence with the most eminent scholars of his time. His principal works are, 1. An excellent Description of Palestine ; 2. Five Dissertations on the Medals of the ancient Hebrews and several other dissertations on different subjects ; 3. An Introduction to the Hebrew Grammar 4. The Antiquities of the ancient Hebrews ; and, 5. On the Mahommedan Religion. These works are all written in Latin
RELAY, a supply of tΛ.ses placed on the road, and appointed to be ready for the traveller to enable him to change, and thus make the greater expedition.
RELICS, in the Church of Rome, the remains of the bodies or clothes of saints or martyrs, and the instruments by which they were put to death, devoutly preserved, in honour of their memory.
The respect which was justly due to the martyrs and the teachers of the Christian faith increased in the course of time almost to adoration ; and at length all but divine honour was really paid both to departed saints and to relics of holy men or holy things. Such was the rage for them at one time, that, as Mabillon, a Benedictine, justly complains, the altars were loaded with suspected relics, numerous spurious ones being everywhere offered to the piety and devotion of the faithful. He adds, too, that bones are often consecrated, which, so far from belonging to saints, probably do not belong to Christians. From the catacombs numerous relics have been taken, and yet it is not known who were the persons interred therein. In the eleventh century, relics were tried by fire, when those which did not consume were reckoned genuine, and the rest not. Relics were, and still are, sometimes preserved on the altars whereon mass is celebrated.
The Romanists plead antiquity in behalf of the respect paid to relics. The Manicheans, say they, out of hatred to the flesh, which they considered as an evil principle, refused to honour the relics of saints ; and this is reckoned a kind of proof that the Christians in the first ages did so. We know, indeed, that the touching of linen cloths on relics, from an opinion of some extraordinary virtue derived therefrom, was as ancient as the first ages ; there being a hole made expressly for the purpose in the coffins of the forty martyrs at Constantinople. The honouring the relics of saints, on which the Church of Rome afterwards founded her superstitious and lucrative use of them, as objects of devotion, as a kind of charms or amulets, and as instruments of pretended miracles, appears to have originated in a very ancient custom which prevailed amongst Christians, of assembling at the cemeteries or burying-places of the martyrs, for the purpose of commemorating them, and of performing divine worship. When the profession of Christianity obtained the protection of the civil government, under Constantine the Great, stately churches were erected over their sepulchres, and their names and memories were treated with every possible token of affection and respect. This reverence, however, gradually exceeded all reasonable bounds; and those prayers and religious services which were performed over their tombs were thought to have a peculiar sanctity and virtue. Hence the practice, which afterwards obtained, of depositing relics of saints and of martyrs under the altars in all churches. This practice was then thought of such importance, that St Ambrose would not consecrate a church because it had no relics ; and the council of Constantinople ordained, that those altars should be demolished under which there were not found any relics. The rage of procuring relics for this and other purposes of a similar nature became so excessive, that in 386 the Emperor Theodosius the Great was obliged to pass a law, forbidding the people to dig up the bodies of the martyrs, and to traffic in their remains. Such was the origin of that respect for sacred relics, which, when perverted afterwards, became the occasion of innumerable processions, pilgrimages, and miracles.
RELIEVO, or Relief, in
Sculpture,
is the projection or standing out of a figure which arises prominently from tlle ground or plane on which it is formed, whether that figure be cut with the chisel, moulded, or cast.
There are three kinds or degrees of relievo ; alto, basso, and demi-relievo. The alto-relievo, called also
high-relief, 
is when the figure is formed after nature, and projects as much as the life. Basso-relievo, bas-relief, is when the work is raised a little from the ground, as in medals and the frontispieces of buildings, but particularly in the histories, festoons, foliages, and other ornaments of friezes. Demi-relievo is when one half of the figure rises from the plane. When, in a basso-relievo, there are parts that stand clear out, detached from the rest, the work is called a demi-basso. In architecture, the relief or projection of the ornaments ought always to be proportioned to the magnitude of the building it adorns, and to the distance at which it is to be viewed.
Relievo, or
Relief,
in
Painting,
is the degree of boldness with which the figures appear, at a due distance, to stand out from the ground of the painting.
The relievo depends much upon the depth of the shadow and the strength of the light ; or in the height of the different colours, bordering upon one another, and particularly on the difference of the colour of the figure from that of the ground. Thus, when the light is so disposed as to make tlle nearest parts of the figure advance, and is well diffused on the masses, yet insensibly diminishing, and terminating in a large spacious shadow, brought off insensibly, the relievo is said to be bold, and the clear-obscure well understood.
RELIGION (Religio) is a Latin word, derived, according to Cicero,@@1 from
relegere,
to reconsider ; but, according to Servius and most modem grammarians, from
religare,
to bind fast. The reason assigned by the Roman orator for deducing
religio
from
relego,
is in these words : “ Qui au-
1
@@@ De Natura Deοrum,
lib. ii. sect. 28,
