docks, and vessels of any burden may be built. It is estimated that vessels can be built at Rangoon for one third less than at Bombay. This capital of the Burmese empire is the resort of traders from all nations ; and it is also an asylum for less respectable characters, such as insolvent debtors from different settlements of India, foreigners of desperate fortunes, who are received in the most friendly manner by the Burmans, and generally support themselves by some petty traffic. Malabars, Moguls, Persians, Parsees, Armenians, Portuguese, French, and English, men of all countries and of all complexions, are here seen mingled together on the exchange ; and all meet with the most perfect toleration for their religion, provided they do not meddle with the worship of the Burmese divinity, Guadma, or with the ceremonies of any other sect. A considerable portion of the inhabitants are Chinese, who are merchants, shopkeepers, artisans, and constitute the most industrious portion of the community. A share of the trade is also engrossed by the Parsees, Armenians, and a small portion of the Mahommedans, who ∙are also selected by government to fill offices of trust that relate to the trade and the transactions of foreigners.
The imports from the British settlements consist chiefly of coarse piece-goods, glass, hardware, and broad cloth. The returns are chiefly made in timber, with which Madras is mostly supplied from Rangoon. The trade is carried on in boats, about ten or twelve of which are annually fitted out, and about thirty more from various towns on the Irrawaddy river. These proceed by the way of the Bassein river, through the channels which divide the great Negrais from the continent, along the coast of Arracan, to Luckipore, Dacca, Calcutta, Bogwandola, and even to Patna and Benares. They caιτy each a crew of from twenty to twenty-five men ; and on an average 4000 rupees in bullion, the remainder of the cargo consisting of sheathing boards, sticks of copper from China, Sticklac, cutch, ivory, and wax.
The inhabitants are stout and athletic, the men being
about five feet eight inches in height, with straight muscular limbs; the women rather diminutive, but well formed in every respect, except the nose, which is flat. Both sexes are of a copper colour ; they are lively and inquisitive ; almost all of them read and write, and have no prejudices that obstruct the progress of improvement. The women are not immured at home like those of Hindustan, but superintend the domestic economy, and weave the clothes worn by the men. Their own dress is scanty, and scarcely affords them a decent covering. They are not strict in their morals ; and the men are in the practice of selling their wives and their daughters. The population is estimated at 30,000 ; but Crawford, on a census which he directed to be made whilst in the country, states it at 181,000. Long. 96. 9. E. Lat. 16. 47. N.
RANK, the order or place assigned to a person, suitably to his quality or merit.
Rank is a straight line formed by the soldiers of a battalion or squadron, drawn up side by side. This order was established for the marches, and for regulating the different bodie9 of troops and officers which compose an army.
Rank and Precedence,
in the army and navy, are estimated as follows :
Engineers RANK.
Chief, as colonel ; director, as lieu-tenant-colonel ; sub-director, as major ; engineer in ordinary, as captain ; engineer extraordinary, as captain-lieu-tenant; sub-engineer, as lieutenant ; practitioner engineer, as ensign.
Navy RANK.
Admiral, or commander-in-chief of his majesty’s fleet, has the rank of a field-marshal ; admirals, with their flags on the main-topmast-head, rank with generals of horse and foot ; vice-admirals, with lieutenant-generals ; rear-admirals, as major-generals ; commodores with broad pendants, as brigadier-generals ; captains of postships, after three years from the date of their first commission, as colonels ; other captains, as commanding post-ships, as lieutenant-colonels ; captains not taking post, as majors ; lieutenants, as captains.
Rank between the Army, Navy, and Governors.
AttMY.
Navy.
GovEttNOIlS.
General-in-chief.
Admiral-in-chief.
Commander-in-chief of the forces in America.
Generals of horse.
Admiral with a flag at tlle main-topmast.
Captain-generals of provinces.
Lieutenant-generals.
Vice-admirals.
Lieutenant-generals of provinces.
Major-generals.
Rear-admirals.
Lieutenant-governors and presidents.
Colonels.
Post-captains of three years.
Lieutenant-governors not commanding.
Lieutenant-colonels.
Post-captains.
Governors of charter colonies.
Majors.
Captains.
Deputy-governors.
Captains.
Lieutenants.
Established by the king, 1760.
RANKS and Files
are the horizontal and vertical lines of soldiers when drawn up for service.
RANNY BEDNORE, a port and town of Hindustan, in the Balaghaut ceded territories. It is sixty miles northeast from Chitteldroog. Long. 75. 42. E. Lat. 14. 33. N.
RANNYPOOR, a town of Hindustan, province of Mal-wah, in the Mahratta territories. It is forty-four miles north-west from Chatterpoor. Long. 79. 16. E. Lat. 25. 
13. N.
RANS DES VACHES, or Raas des Vaches, a celebrated melody of the cow-herds in Switzerland. There seem to be several melodies of that name, employed to assemble the cows in the evening, and to lead them home from their Alpine pastures. The great violinist Viotti wrote down one of these, which he heard amongst the valleys of Switzerland; and used to perform it wr ith such effect in London as to draw tears from his auditors. It has been frequently related, on unquestionable authority, that Swiss
