■ a lengthened tail, which gives them a general resemblance to the lizards. Their head is flat, and the ear entirely hid in the flesh, without any apparent tympanum, there being only a small cartilage over the external aperture. Botll jaws are furnished with numerous small teeth, and two similar rows occur upon the palate. The tongue resembles that of frogs, but there is no third eyelid. They have a skeleton with fourteen dorsal vertebræ, and remarkably small rudiments of ribs, but without any osseous sternum ; the pelvis is simply suspended from the spine by ligaments. They have four fingers and five toes. As we have already stated, they respire like the preceding genera. The arms of the tadpole are developed before the legs, contrary to what happens in the animals already reviewed.
Salamanders are divided into the terrestrial and aquatic.
We commence with the former.
Genus Salamandra, Laur.
Terrestrial salamanders.
(See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 6.) In their perfect state these reptiles have a round tail ; they remain in water only during their tadpole state (which is brief), or while in the act of reproduction. Their ova are enclosed in oviducts.
These salamanders, though not unfrequent in Europe, and in warmer regions, seem never to have been observed in Britain. They take up their abode in damp ground, and amidst brushwood, in ditches and shady places, in subterranean caverns and among old ruins. They are feeble, timid, stupid creatures, which live on worms, snails, flies, and other insects, and apparently on rich mould. They appear almost entirely deaf and dumb, and show no dread either of man, or of other animals stronger than themselves. If thrown into water, they immediately attempt to escape from it. They are capable of enduring most serious mutilation without apparently suffering from it ; if, however, they are plunged into vinegar or alcohol, or are sprinkled with salt or tobacco, they are killed in a moment. We may now enumerate a few of the species. The
spotted salamander, S. maculosa, 
Laur., of the usual length of six or eight inches, sometimes more, is one of the largest, and most widely spread through Europe. It is of a shining black colour, with two bright yellow stripes on its flanks, and of a livid blue colour beneath. It has conspicuous glands (parotids) behind its occiput, and along its sides are rows of tubercles, from whence, when alarmed, a milky humour flows, bitter to the taste, of a strong smell, and injurious to the life of very small animals. Its tail is of a roundish or cylindrical form, tapering to the extremity. It affects humid places, and retires into subterranean holes, under large stones and roots of trees. The brain of this reptile is said to be so small as not to equal the diameter of the spinal marrow, and its perceptive powers are proportionally dull. The
black salamander, S. atra,
Laur., is not above half the size of the foregoing ; it is black, and devoid of spots above, and of a yellowish hue beneath. It is rare in France, but is found in the Alps, and is abundant in the mountainous regions of Southern Germany. (See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 6.) The
funereal salamander, S. funebris,
is six or eight inches long, of a deep-brown colour. It was observed by Bory St Vincent in the hottest and dampest parts of Andalusia. This species issued in dozens from their retreats at night, and Speedilyadvanced towards destruction near the bivouac fires, by which they were attracted. Into these they would apparently have themselves advanced, had not the soldiers cast them amid the flames, where they remained for a few moments as if unhurt, thus far supporting their incombustible reputation. We need scarcely add, however, that they very speedily died
roosted,
as any other small animal would have done under a similar predicament.
Among the foreign salamanders a great number mhabit North America ; and these are said to be destitute of the occipital glands. Palisot and Bosc have each described a new species. Thunberg has also discovered one in Japan, to which the natives ascribe medicinal virtues of the most valuable kind. The
spectacled salamander, S. peτspieil-lata
of Savi, has only four toes on the hind feet. It is black above, and yellow spotted with black beneath, with a yellow line between the eyes. It is found in the Apennines.
GENusTRiTONj Laur.
Aquatic salamanders.
Wenow turn to the aquatic group, commonly called newts, which have a tail always compressed vertically, and pass a great portion of their lives in water. (See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 7.) These are the animals experimented on by Spallanzani, and so celebrated for their reproductive powers. Another faculty scarcely less singular, is that which M. Dufay has recognised them as possessing,—we mean their power of remaining frozen for a length of time in ice without mortal injury. Their ova are fecundated by the milt being mixed with the ambient water, and penetrating with it into the oviducts. After a certain sojourn there, the young issue in long gelatinous cords, from which they do not effect their escape till several days after their extrusion. The branchiæ continue for a longer or shorter period in different species. Few have been accurately observed in Europe, and doubts remain about their specific determination, because they change their colours with their age, and differ according both to sex and season. The crests and other ornaments of the males, also, are only fully developed during spring. If winter surprises them still wearing gills, these parts are then maintained throughout the colder season, and even continue to increase.
The following are species which have been accurately characterized. The
marbled salamander, S. marmorata, 
Lat.
(Triton Gesnerii
of Laurenti), has the skin chagrined, pale green above, spotted with large irregular brown blotches, and brown spotted with white beneath. A red line runs . along the back, which in the male forms a kind of crest, marked with black spots. The
crested triton, S. eristatα, 
Lat., has the skin chagrined, brown above spotted with black, and orange beneath similarly spotted ; the flanks are spotted with white. The crest of the male is high, acutely serrated, and embroidered with violet during the love season. This is our great water-newt (
T. palustris,
Flem. and Jen.), by no means uncommon in Britain during summer in ponds and ditches, and sometimes found in autumn out of water, in damp and shady situations. M. Bibron, who lately read a paper on these tritons to the London Zoological Society, stated that he had found this and the preceding species indigenous to Britain ; and that the distinguishing characteristic consists in this, that in the crested species the upper lip is so largely developed that it overlaps the under one posteriorly when the jaws are closed, a condition never present in the
marmorata.
The
spotted triton, S. αl-pestris,
Bechst., has a chagrined skin, and is slaty and brown coloured above, and orange or red beneath ; whilst
S. punctata,
Lat. (
T. punctatus,
Bonap.), has a smooth skin, light brown above, pale reddish beneath, and spotted everywhere with black. The crest is festooned, and its toes somewhat enlarged, but not webbed. This is the common (or smaller) water-newt of Britain. It is subject to considerable variation, and is often found on land. A third British species is the striped eft,
T. vittatus
of Gray. Finally,
T. palmata, 
Lat., is brown on the back, black and brown on the head, lighter on the flanks, and spotted with black. The male has three small crests on its back; the toes are dilated and webbed, and the tail terminates in a slender membranaceous fin. North America is rich in aquatic salamanders; but our knowledge of these, as of many European species, is too obscure to admit of their precise classification. Baron Cuvier has well remarked, that a good monograph of this interesting group, with accurate plates, is a great desideratum.
We have now to conclude the present article with a few brief notices of certain very remarkable genera, some ot
