its continual application or contiguity to the same parts of the ambient or contiguous bodies. It is therefore opposed ,to motion.
Rest, in
Poetry,
is a short pause of the voice in reading, being the same with the
cœsura,
which, in Alexandrine verses, falls on the sixth syllable, but in verses of ten or eleven syllables, on the fourth.
REST-HARROW, or Cammock
1
the
Ononis Arvensis.
A decoction of this plant has been much recommended for horses labouring under a stoppage of urine. It is the pest of some corn-fields ; but in its younger state, before the plant has acquired thorns, it is a most acceptable food for sheep.
RESTAURATION, the act of re-establishing or setting a thing or person in its former state.
RESTITUTION, in a moral and legal sense, is restoring a person to his right, or returning something unjustly taken or detained from him.
Restitution of Medals,
or
Restored Medals,
is a term used by antiquaries for such medals as were struck by the emperors, to retrieve the memory of their predecessors. Hence, in several medals, we find the letters rest. This practice was first begun by Claudius, who struck afresh several medals of Augustus. Nero did the same ; and Titus, imitating his father’s example, struck restitutions of most of his predecessors. Gallienus struck a general restitution of all the preceding emperors on two medals ; the one bearing an altar, the other an eagle without the letters rest.
RESTIVE, in the manège, a stubborn, unruly, ill-broken horse, that stops, or runs back, instead of advancing forward.
RESTORATION, a small island in the South Pacific Ocean, on the east coast of New Holland, discovered by Captain Bligh in 1789. Oysters are plentiful on the shore, and there is also abundance of water.
RESURRECTION, in
Theology,
is arising again from the state of the dead ; in other words, is that event, the belief of which constitutes one of the principal articles in the Christian creed. See Theology.
RESUSCITATION, the same with resurrection and revivification. The term
resuscitation,
however, is more particularly used by chemists for the reproducing a mixed body from its ashes ; an art to which many have pretended, as to reproduce plants, &c. from their ashes.
RETFORD, East, a market-town of the county of Nottingham, in the hundred of Bassetlaw, 145 miles from London. It is situated on the river Idle, which runs into the Trent, is well built, has a town-hall, and good market-place well attended every Saturday. It is a corporate town, governed by four aldermen and twelve councillors. It returns two members to the House of Commons ; but on account of prevalent bribery, the right of voting for the borough has been extended to all the freeholders of the county in which it stands. In the neighbourhood are many hop plantations. The chief trade is what arises from the great road. The population amounted in 1801 to 1948, in 1811 to 2030, in 182I∙to 2461, and in 1831 to 2491.
RETHEL1 an arrondissement of the department of the Ardennes, in France, extending over 472 square miles. It comprehends six cantons, composed of 108 communes, and contains 67,341 inhabitants. The capital is a city of the same name, situated on the right bank of the Aisne. In 1836 it contained 6771 inhabitants, chiefly employed in making coarse woollen goods. Long. 3. 20. E. Lat. 40. 35. N.
RETICULA, or Reticule, in
Astronomy,
a contrivance for measuring very nicely the quantity of eclipses. This instrument, which was introduced by the Academy of Sciences at Paris, is a little frame composed of thirteen fine silken threads, parallel to and at equal distances from each other, placed in the focus of object-glasses of tele
scopes ; that is, in the place where the image of the luminary is painted in its full extent. The diameter of the sun or moon is consequently thus seen divided into twelve equal parts or digits ; so that, in order to ascertain the quantity of the eclipse, there is nothing more to do than to number the parts that are dark, or that are luminous. As a square reticule is only proper for the diameter of the luminary, not for the circumference of it, it is sometimes made circular, by drawing six concentric, equidistant circles, which perfectly represent the phases of the eclipse. But it is obvious, that whether the reticule be square or circular, it should be perfectly equal to the diameter or circumference of the sun or star, such as it appears in the focus of the glass, otherwise the division cannot be just. Another imperfection in the reticule is, that its magnitude is determined by that of the image in the focus, and of course it will only fit one particular magnitude. But a remedy for these inconveniences was discovered by M. de la Hire, who contrived that the same reticule might serve for all telescopes, and all magnitudes of the luminary in the same eclipse. If two object-glasses be applied against each other, having a common focus, and forming an image of a certain magnitude, this image will increase in proportion as the distance between the two glasses is increased, at least to a certain limit. If therefore a reticule be taken of such a magnitude as just to comprehend the greatest diameter the sun or moon can ever have in the common focus of two object-glasses applied to each other, it is only necessary to remove them from each other, as the star becomes less, in order to have the image still exactly comprehended in the same reticule. As the silken threads are apt to deviate from the parallelism, by the different temperature of the air, another improvement is, to make the reticule of a thin looking-glass, by drawing lines or circles upon it with the fine point of a diamond.
RETICULATION. Of all the devices which man has invented wherewithal to secure to himself the “ dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle,” few can plead greater antiquity than reticulation ; none has retained its place as an essential item in the catalogue of useful engines so permanently, through all ages and changes, as the net. Other wr eapons and instruments have either fallen into total disuse before the gigantic strides of improvement, or now only minister to our recreation ; but the net, to this hour, forms an indispensable part of the apparatus used by many of the industrious classes of society. As a means of supplying us with a variety of wholesome food, and of enabling us to carry on an extensive commerce with other nations, net-making becomes an art of some importance ; and, as an agreeable occupation to the amateur, it may be reckoned among the chief in point of domestic utility ; and therefore is not in either case to be placed “ next to mere idleness in the scale of insignificance.” Fishing-net making is decidedly now the most extensive branch of reticulation, how serviceable soever it may be for other purposes. To say nothing of the shapes of the various engines of this kind used in our fisheries, their texture is the best that human ingenuity has been able to conceive ; for, when wet, they are easily dried, when torn, easily mended ; they offer little resistance when drawn out of the water, whereby the labour of hauling them is greatly diminished ; the risk of their being overthrown or carried away by tides, currents, or storms, is lessened ; and the more shy fish are not so easily scared away as they otherwise would be by toils more densely wrought ; the sand, the mud, the young fry and spawn, the small insects and other animals inhabiting the waters, find a free passage through the meshes, and thus much wanton destruction of animal life is prevented, whilst a larger abundance and a more regular supply of fish is obtained than by any other mode. Such are some of tlle advantages which principally
