First, then, Rhetoric is not a primary science. Its first principles are the phenomena and laws of the human mind, which it assumes as known to us from consciousness and observation, and as taught in rational systems of psychology, logic, and ethics. Aristotle, among the many instances in which he protested against errors that had arisen before his time, and have survived in spite of his remonstrances, was especially careful in determining the point at which rhetoric should commence its investigations. He lays it down as a fundamental principle, that the student of eloquence must prepare himself by an adequate acquaintance with three primary branches of knowledge which rhetoric cannot teach him ; the science of dialectics, the philosophy of human character and morals, and the philosophy of the passions. The Stagyrite’s requirement of skill in logic for one who desires to acquire skill in oratory, will seem unreasonable, not only to those who disdain the assistance of rules in every department of mental exertion, but to some who are disposed in certain matters to avail themselves of the aids which philosophy offers. If, however, we merely advise them to make themselves familiar, so far as they are not so already, with the principles and practice of reasoning, they cannot fairly consider the counsel as useless ; and if they admit the necessity of this study, we can only remind them further, that they must either be content to receive the syllogistic logic of Aristotle, as expounding justly the principles on which all reasoning is founded, or engage in that attempt at discovering a new system, which has baffled the human intellect for two thousand years. “ I cannot but consider him,” SaysWhately, “ as undertaking a task of unnecessary difficulty, who endeavours, without studying logic, to become a thoroughly good argumentative writer.” That Aristotle’s other demands on the student are well founded, will be more readily admitted, how far soever men may disagree as to the mode in which these branches of knowledge may be best acquired. For those who aim principally at applying their acquaintance with human nature to the purpose here in view, the world is doubtless a better school than the closet ofthe metaphysician ; especially as metaphysical writers have, almost without exception, devoted themselves chiefly to those sections of their science which are least closely allied to active life. But the philosopher’s attention is nevertheless directed to many important points which the unsystematic observer is in danger of overlooking ; and no one will find cause to regret the time bestowed on a course of metaphysical study, when he proceeds to the task of convincing and persuading his fellow-men. Unfortunately, however, the falsity and extravagance of several very famous systems of ethics, make caution indispensable in regard to such studies. A disciple of Hobbes, who, in addressing himself to any body of men by speech or writing, should frame all his appeals to their feelings, on the assumption that a degrading selfishness was the ruling passion in every breast, would, if he should be within the reach of conviction, discover the best practical refutation of his master’s dogmas in his own utter failure ; and one whose mind is thoroughly attuned to the low key of Paley’s philosophy, would probably, although his heresy in morals is less dangerous, find the application of his creed to the purposes of eloquence scarcely less ineffectual.
But, secondly, there are certain other principles of rhetoric, constituting indeed its essence, which, though they touch the frontier of other mental sciences, are yet sub. Stantially distinct and peculiar. The two subjects of inquiry with which the Philosophy of Eloquence comes most nearly into contact are, on the one hand, Logic, and, on the other, the Philosophy of Poetry. We shall be easily able to distinguish the points at which it branches off’ from both, if we keep.firmly in view the main proposition, that the purpose ofeloquence is the production of belief.
And, first, as to logic. In the first place, this science is conversant about the three discursive operations of the mind, apprehension, judgment, and reasoning, and takes no cognizance of any others. Secondly, logic is strictly “ a formal science.” In regard to reasoning, which is its principal object, it guarantees, to use the words of a very distinguished living metaphysician, “ neither the premises nor the conclusion, but merely the consequence of the latter from the former.” Of the truth or falsehood of the propositions which form the logician’s premises, his science teaches him absolutely nothing. Here, then, are two barriers, by both of which logic, omnipotent within its own domain, has that domain limited ; and beyond each of them lies a wide class of principles essentially affecting human belief. Let us even suppose that the human mind were biassed, in arriving at its conclusions, by no extra-logical operations of its owτ n. Even on this supposition, logical rules would not teach us how’ to produce belief of any given proposition. For though they would enable us to discover premises from which the required conclusion might be logically inferred, they possess no machinery which would qualify us for judging whether those premises would command the belief of those whom we wished to convince. Logic could neither inform us whether our premises are absolutely true, nor (which is here tlle real subject of inquiry) whether they are likely to seem true to others. Therefore, even for producing conviction by pure reasoning, the discovery of arguments is a task, and one of unquestionable importance, which logic cannot perform ; and if rhetoric, or any other science, undertakes to lay down principles facilitating its execution, we shall do well to examine, at least candidly, its capacity for fulfilling its professions.
But, in the next place, the mind of man is not so simply constituted, and his position in the system of nature has, as it were, fenced round his rational faculties with those powers which issue in action. The emotions pervade every operation of the mind, as the life-blood circulates through the body : within us and without, in the coηκ>real world and in the spiritual, in the past, the present, and the future, there is no object of thought which they do not touch, few, very few, which they do not colour and transmute. The argument which, if it could be presented pure to the reasoning faculties, would be fairly weighed, and calmly received or rejected, is sometimes disguised by passion, as completely as a landscape is by clouds, whose stormy piles we mistake for the distant mountains ; and in almost every case the conclusion or its proof, or both the one and the other, are seen through a medium more or less hazy, in which they present themselves as the objects of our bodily appetites, or our mental fears and desires, as instruments or hindrances of our affections, kind or malevolent, towards our fellow-men, or as falling under the jurisdiction of that supreme judge and monarch, the moral faculty, which sits enthroned in the inmost recesses of the heart, always able, when accurately informed, to confirm the decisions of reason, but, like other despots, often allowing its power to slumber, and often misled by faithless ministers. If we would command the belief of minds thus variously affected, it is manifest that other principles, besides those of logic, must aid us both in the discovery of arguments, and in their form and arrangement. 1. As to the discovery of arguments, we must always, both for protecting our own minds against error, and for qualifying us to deal with men of cold and unimaginative temper, aim at making ourselves masters of such premises as would probably command the belief of those on whose minds pure reasoning could fall directly, without being turned aside by intervening obstacles. We may always encounter some men whose minds, when directed to certain objects, are more or less nearly in this position. 2. In regard to the same department of our business of conviction, we must endeavour to perform the far more diffi
