Table of Gradients continued.
Feet
per
mile.
Inches
per
chain.
Ratio of height to length.
Feet
per
mile.
Inches
per
chain.
Ratio of height to length.
34
5-10
1 in 155∙3
78
11∙70
1 in 67-7
35
5∙25
„    150-8
79
11∙85
„ 66-8
36
5∙40
„    146∙6
80
12-00
„ 66- 0
37
5-55
„    142∙7
81
12-15
„ 65-2
38
5∙70
„    138∙9
82
12-30
„ 64-4
39
5∙85
„    135∙4
83
12-45
„ 63-6
40
6-00
„    132∙0
84
12-60
„ 62-9
41
6-15
„ 128∙8
85
12-75
,, 62-1
42
6∙30
„    125∙7
86
12-90
„ 61-4
43
6-45
„ 122∙8
i 87
13-05
„ 60-7
44
6∙60
„ 1200
88
13-20
„ 60-0
When, therefore, the flying levels are complete for the three or four lines, as we have before directed, the engineer and manager, or secretary, should bring all their information together, and throwing it into one common stock, select that line out of the whole, which, on the fullest deliberation, appears to be the best with reference to its gradients, geology, commercial importance, and the facilities it affords for soundly and cheaply constructing the necessary works. This subject will of course require deep attention, and the reasons for the selection should be wτitten out in the fullest and clearest manner, for the inspection of any proprietor who may desire to see them, publicity always insuring confidence ; and in most cases, it would be best to submit vital points of this kind to a general meeting of the whole body, before proceeding to parliament to obtain an act of incorporation. This would entirely prevent any mistrust.
That these matters require the greatest consideration, will be apparent from the difficulty, delay, and expense of obtaining acts of parliament for railways. The cost of that for the Liverpool and Manchester line, for instance, thirty miles, was about L∙900 per mile. That for the London and Birmingham, 112 miles, was L.72,869, or L.650, 12s. per mile ; and it is well known that the expense has reached L.1000 per mile on long lines, and that latterly, in every new session of parliament, there have been fresh difficulties thrown in the way of obtaining the necessary acts, till it is now nearly impossible to succeed at all.
• There are many very great hardships connected with 'obtaining an act of incorporation for a railway. Parlia-'ment requires that a plan and section of every part of the ground through which the intended line is to pass, shall be lodged with their clerk, and with the clerks of the peace in every county through which the railway goes. This is a very proper regulation, in order that every landholder may be able, by travelling a convenient distance, to have a personal inspection of a duly authorised document, so as to examine the nature and extent of the benefit, or tile inconvenience which it may occasion to his particular property ; but parliament should at the same time have given the railway companies the power of complying with this wholesome regulation, in the same way as road surveys are made in Ireland, by an order from two magistrates to enter any requisite grounds. This, however, is not done, and therefore it follows, as a necessary consequence, that the projectors of these undertakings, no matter how beneficial or important soever to the community at large, are left entirely at the mercy of the landholders, whether they can make their survey or not. We have ourselves known, that when decided opposition has been evinced to the undertaking, the engineers and surveyors have been put to all possible shifts to obtain the necessary data for their plans and sections. Working by night with lanthoms has even been unavoidably resorted to ; and in one case, where the proprietor was a clergyman, he was watched on Sunduy until he went into his church, and a strong party immediately setting to work, just succeeded in finishing the business as he concluded his sermon.
The facilities of opposing a bill in parliament are so great, that every temptation is held out to do so, especially when the rich harvest to counsel, solicitors, and witnesses, is considered ; and as has been well observed by the Irish railway commissioners, discussions are mooted of the most discursive and discordant kinds, relating to all the abstract professional matter in the most distant manner connected with a railway. The principies of curves and gradients are entered into with mathematical precision, and the laws of friction and gravity are investigated ; questions about which the counsel and the court are often equally ignorant, the one side seeking to swell the estimates and lower the profits, and the other pulling in the opposite direction, like the bulls and bears on the stock exchange, till at last, probably after the expenditure of thousands, the bill is thrown out, not on its own merits or demerits, but because, perhaps, a notice to the proprietor of five or six yards of a cabbage garden, was left next door by mistake.
The parliamentary rules are now as much too strict, as they were at first too loose. The time when the required plans and sections are to be deposited, is very inconvenient ; two years at least being required between the deposits being paid and the act obtained. Thus, at the present time, if any line is wished to be procured, the surveys must be made in the autumn of 1838, the plans must be lodged and the notices given in March 1839, the petition for the bill presented to the Commons in February 1840, and supposing the act obtained the same session, little if any real work can be done until the spring of 1841. The subscription of ten per cent, required on the capital, merely leads to delusion ; bankers in general advance the money, and whether the bill succeeds or fails, they get it back with interest and commission, for by the very terms of the order of the House of Commons, it may be paid back to the person advancing it. The public obtain no security against a bad project by this regulation, whilst a good one may be crushed for want of a speculating capitalist. Nobody is benefited in fact, except the banker and the broker ; and that this is the process largely employed all are perfectly aware.
If a bill be lost in one session, it cannot be proceeded with in the next without a new contract deed being signed. This is a considerable hardship. The deviation in section is too limited, and should only apply to raising embankments and lowering cuttings ; the reverse should be allowed to any extent, and the deviation should be reckoned from the surface of the ground, and not the lateral line. If the same line is kept, the effect would be the same, but by removing to a different level, what may be cutting in one respect may be embanking in another. The limitations in all respects as to deviations may be considered as too strict, and they always have the effect of cramping the company and their engineer ; palpable improvements in many cases, have been abandoned on account of the heavy cost of going to parliament for new acts ; and others in all probability would never have been made, except that the companies in question were forced to apply for a new act, in order to enable them to borrow more money, and then the improvement is put in along with the rest as a rider.
When the intended line is once decided on, the surveyors should be sent out as speedily as possible ; and these are followed by the levellers, who are the engineers. It will be best to survey wide, when you are not quite certain of the exact position of the line ; the surveyors give in their plans to the engineers, who proceed to lay down upon them the line as their levelling goes on, taking care as nearly as possible to balance the cuttings and embankments. It will
