Spiration already mentioned, is obvious. Analogous phenomena are observable in other classes of the animal kingdom. Thus, the reviving powers of the
Rotifer redivivus,
though so astonishing, are now undisputed ; and no one doubts Franklin’s anecdote of the apparently dead flies, which he took from a fresh-drawn bottle of Madeira, and revived in the sun. Many drowned insects, to all appearance dead, are made to renew their vital powers when sprinkled over with dry warm sand, or pounded plaster ; and it appears that in like manner, a certain feeble life, capable under altered circumstances of quick and strong increase, lingers long in many reptiles.
The great majority of the instances of imprisoned toads and frogs is said to have occurred in growing trees, hard wood, coal, and in sandstones and other rocks not of a very dense or impenetrable consistence. The fact has been long and frequently alleged, and the difficulty of accounting for it forms the chief ground of the prevailing scepticism. The wonder produced is forcibly though quaintly expressed in a Latin inscription written in letters of gold, framed with a coat of arms, and hung over a mantle-piece of sandstone, formerly in Chillingham Castle. In this sandstone there was a deep excavation, believed for ages to have been the living tomb of one of these creatures. We give a translation of a part of this document.
Hither, Stagyrite!
If you would sec a phenomenon more wonderful than Euripus, Come hither ;
Let seas ebb and flow as they may, and let him be a lunatic Who despoils the moon of her honours.
Behold here a novelty, such as neither Africa presents to thee, Nor the Nile with her fabulous sands;
A fire and pure flame Existing, though shut out from vital air.
From the dark recesses of the cut rock which you see,
Tbe hands of the obstetrical stone-cutter gave light To a living toad ! !
In illustration of this alleged phenomenon, we shall adduce but a single recent instance out of many. On the 25th of July 1832, four men made affidavit, “ that they were astonished, on splitting a large block of millstone grit on Stain-more, more than a ton weight, by a living yellow frog springing out of a cavity in the centre of the said solid rock, where
it had been as closely imbedded as a watch in its outer case,
without any communication with the surface nearer than eight inches. This frog was conveyed to Brough, Westmoreland, and given to Mr Rumney, surgeon, in whose possession it now (Jan. 21, 1833) continues in a healthy living state.”
Wr e have already mentioned, that however disgusting may be their qualities in the apprehension of many, toads are eaten greedily by savage tribes, and not seldom, though unwittingly, by the more fastidious inhabitants of the gay and splendid capitals of Europe. We now proceed to allude more particularly to a few of the species.
The
common toad (B. vulgaris,—Rana Info,
Linn.) is of a russet or brownish-gray colour, sometimes olive, and even blackish. It is covered with numerous round tubercles on the back, and with smaller ones beneath. The hind feet are semi-palmated. It is found throughout Europe (most abundantly in its western parts), and is common in this country. It usually sojourns in obscure and sheltered places, and passes the winter in holes which it finds or makes for itself. It spawns in water in March and April ; the ova are very small and numerous, suspended in two cords of transparent jelly. The tadpole is blackish, and remarkably small when it loses its tail and acquires its feet. The branchial aperture is on the left side. This toad is long lived, fifteen years being assigned as not unfrequent. Its cry has a distant resem
blance to the barking of a dog, and during summer it croaks feebly.
Many toads possess a strong disgusting smell. Of this kind are the
rush toad (Rana bufo calamita,
Gmel.), of which the colour and size much resemble those of the common toad, the cushions behind its ears being somewhat less. Its hind feet are not at all webbed, and it has a pouch or sac under its throat. Its pace differs from that of most of tlle toad tribe, as it runs nearly after the manner of a mouse, with the body and limbs somewhat raised. It is chiefly a nocturnal animal. The ova are contained in two cords ; and the evolution of the ova is so speedy, that the tadpoles liberate themselves in the space of five or six days. During spring it frequents places overgrown with reeds, and croaks loudly. When handled or irritated it pours forth its cutaneous exudation, and squirts its other fluid to a distance of three or four feet, and thus diffuses an intolerable odour, resembling the smoke of gunpowder, but stronger, and so permanent, that if it fall upon furniture it cannot be got rid of for months. Analogous to, if not identical with the preceding, is
B. calamita
of Laurenti, the
natterjack
of British Erpetologists,—
mcphetic toad
of Dr Shaw. In general appearance it resembles our common toad, but the eyes are more projecting, with the eyelids greatly elevated above the crown, and there is a line of bright yellow along the middle of the back. This reptile was first remarked as British by the late Sir Joseph Banks, in Lincolnshire, and has since been met with on many heaths near London, as well as in Cambridgeshire and Norfolk. Except during the spawning season, it appears to affect dry and sandy districts. It is of much more active habits than the common toad, its pace “ being a kind of shuffling run.”@@1 It never leaps. The
brown toad, Β. fuscus,
Laurenti, is also distinguished by an offensive discharge ; but in addition to the gunpowder-smoke smell, and overpowering it, there is an extremely strong odour of garlick or onions, which produces the same effects upon the eyes as do these vegetables. The whole of the skin of this animal is nearly smooth, and the hind limbs are long and deeply webbed. It leaps well, and prefers the neighbourhood of water. Its ova are deposited in a single cord, which, however, is thicker than the double one of the common toad. The tadpole of this species arrives at a great size before it attains its complete form, so that, according to Roi⅛el, it is considered by the country people as a kind of fish, and is eaten accordingly. The
variable
or
green toad, B. variabilis,
Cuv.,
Rana variabilis,
Gmel. and Pallas,
B. viridis
of Schneider and Shaw, is a third species, likewise characterized by a most disagreeable smell, resembling that of the rank and deadly nightshade, but more powerful, and soon contaminating any close apartment. This kind is a native of Germany, the south of France, and other parts of Europe. It derives its specific name from the tints of its colour undergoing striking changes as it sleeps or wakes, or is exposed to sun or shade. It is called the green toad from its spots being of that colour. Pallas’s account of it is as follows : The general colour is pale or whitish, becoming in hot sunshine entirely gray ; when asleep the spots only appear gray, and when torpid the general hue is flesh-coloured.
The
obstetric toad, B. obstetricus
of Laurenti, is a small grayish reptile which inhabits France, and affords an example of a very curious instinct. The process of spawning is not conducted by this species in the water, but on land, and there the male assists the female to get rid of her eggs, which amount to about sixty. These he attaches in small bundles to his thighs by means of an adhesive fluid, and for weeks carries them about with great care. When the young are ready to escape, he seeks some stagnant wa
1
@@@ Jeny∏9, 8
British Vertebrate Animals,
30'J.
