Mr. Buck’s chairs (fig. 15.) are well spoken of. The wedge is driven against the rail by a vertical key. The accompanying drawing (fig. 16.) shews another good form, in which an iron ball takes against the rail, and is keyed close up to it by a longitudinal key. The joint chair is laid down, not at right angles with the rails, but diagonally, and is cast with a split end, rather smaller than the rail. It has therefore to be chipped to get the rail in.
There is however a great loss on all these chairs, through their being made of cast iron. This occasions numbers to be broken in fixing and keying. To prevent this, wrought iron chairs may be made, by rolling the iron into the required form in lengths, and then cutting up the lengths into chairs by shears ; after which they may be drilled and completed.
A chair upon a universal joint has been patented, so as to allow the rail to accommodate itself to the sinking of the block ; but it has not been adopted on any railway that we are aware of. The inquiries necessary under these and other heads, as the works increase in their number and magnitude, will be best met by the directors dividing themselves into sub-committees under the various necessary branches, which is always advantageous, as long as there is one managing head to bring all the parts to bear upon a common focus.
Points and crossings are things which require considerable attention ; and great care should be taken that they are laid down on a plan which combines simplicity with safety. Where one line intersects another, and the crossing is a fixture, or as it is called, a through-crossing, no more will be necessary than to bolt the sleepers well together, and pay rigid attention to the adjustment of the rails ; but where it is requisite to have the power of going either on one line or the other, as at a siding, the matter becomes more difficult, and the mode of doing so may be considered as far from settled, opinions being still very various.
The oldest form is the common switch, where, upon one side of the line of rails, is a bar, moveable on a hinge, capable of being laid into either the main line, or the line of sidings. (Fig. 17.) Abreast of this is a fixed check rail, the main rail being bent, and having a nick in it (a) for allowing the flange to pass when the carriage is not to shift its line. The left hand half of the figure exhibits the same thing for the opposite line of rails. A check rail must also be placed at each point, so as to ensure the train going upon the required line when the switch is placed in the proper position. The switch is generally moved by a horizontal bar or rod of iron connected with it, which is drawn in and out the required distance by an eccentric, at the opposite end to that which is connected with the switch. This eccentric is attached to a vertical rod, coming up about three feet inside an iron standard, and it is turned at the top by means of a lever key which can be taken off at pleasure, and which no person should be allowed to touch except the switchman. This form, although the oldest, is a very good one, and is very easily understood and managed. There is, however, a very cheap and good plan of moving them, instead of an eccentric. This is a vertical lever, which draws them backwards and forwards, the handle springing against an arc with notches to receive it in each position. This might be placed inside the switchman’s sentry-box, where it could be locked up if he was unavoidably absent, and no one could touch it.
Another form, also much approved of, is what is called the check-rail, to distinguish it from the former, which is called the switch-rail. In the check-rail there is a move-able bar to both sides of the line of rails. These are moved simultaneously, by the eccentric being connected to each of them by a cross bolt. The action of the check-rail and the switch-rail has this difference, that it takes place on different sides of the flange, the check-rail acting on the outside of the flange, and the switch-rail on the inside. The check-rail is not so good as the switch, nor is it so easily understood. Itisshewnwith its eccentric in Plate CCCCXX. Fig. 1 is the slide rail in plan, fig. 2 the elevation, fig. 3 the elevation of the eccentric, fig. 4 the point, and fig. 5 the general arrangement.
Another form which has been much adopted, is Curtis’s slide rail. This has a double bar upon each side of the line of rails, is moved by an eccentric like the others, and is very effective, but expensive. In fact, they all answer the purpose, but the slide rails require signals, which we shall hereafter describe. But this is not the case with the others. Opinion seems now coming back to the old switch rail, modified by making the switch part of it considerably longer, and having it kept in the right position for the main line, by a weight or spring, so that when the train is to go on the siding, the switchman has to hold the switch all the time the train is passing. This is objectionable. But the construction has an advantage which overbalances any thing which can be said against it; namely, that it will be opened by the wheel of the engine, if purposely put wrong, so that the train can by no possibility get off the line of rails, unless it is actually wedged immoveably in the improper position. This is susceptible of further improvement. As it stands, it is the subject of a patent, but we question whether it could be sustained.
We have seen a very cheap, simple, and effective switch on the Great Western Railway, adapted for peculiar situations, where fixed crossings would be disadvantageous. This consists of a switch moveable at the middle by a pivot, instead of at the end. This connects two lines in either direction, but is not to transfer trains from one to the other. Whichever plan may be adopted, we should recommend one set to be made rigidly accurate, and then that templates should be formed from these as a guide for all the others. No method but this will ensure the correctness of the whole; and crossings being always dangerous, they should never be used if it can be helped, except on a station.
