tion of its length, and a place (σ), fitted with shelves for the attendant to keep cigar boxes, soda water, &c.
Fig. 5 is an elevation of a mile mark ; the numbers are either painted on glass, or cut out from sheet iron ; the box at the top contains
a
lamp, which will shew the miles by night.
Plate CCCCXX VI. fig. 1, elevation and section of a water apparatus for washing the carriages, as constructed on the London and Birmingham Railway ;
d
air vessels to prevent the ram when the cocks are shut suddenly ; α,
a
saddle cocks fitted with hollow plugs, one of which is shewn detached at
g ; c, c
hollow space to be filled with charcoal, as a security against the water being frozen ;
b
the connection with the feed pipe by means of a union joint ;
e
the feed pipe; /, /holding down pins.
Fig. 2, elevation of the west end of the great Blisworth cutting on the London and Birmingham Railway, shewing the method of undersetting the rock.
Fig. 3 is a section of the side walls at the same place ; the left hand side shews a section of the wall in the recesses, and the right hand side shews the same through a buttress, together with the invert and drains.
Fig. 4 is an elevation of fig. 3.
Fig. 5 shews the method of drawing bridges to answer both for cuttings and embankments. The left hand side is for a Cuttingand 
a
bridge over the railway ; the right hand side is for an embankment and a bridge under the railway.
Fig. 6 is a plan of the fixed engine-house at Camden Town, on the London and Birmingham Railway, where the trains are drawn up from Euston Square. There are four lines of rails for a double railway ; between these are the stairs leading down to tbe engine-room, on each side of which are the boiler rooms, with receptacles for fuel, &c. The working wheels for the endless rope are in the engine-room, and the well and tightening sheeve behind it. The mode 
of
working these is shewn on a Iargerscale in Plate CCCCXXIV· figs. 4 and 5.
Plate CCCCXXVII. fig. 1, plan of a station; s, road to tbe booking offices ;
d,
building, containing booking offices, waiting rooms, and the offices requisite for the general railway business ; on the opposite side of this building, on the road
s,
is the departure platform, and line of rails which goto the left; c, the first-class carriage house ; ∕, the second-class carriage house ;
gt
the stables for the goods’ station ; Λ, the goods’ waggon house ;
c,
the gullet for embarking horses and private carriages ; i, the engine house ;
p,
coke store, with tank over it;
m,
store-house for the engine department ; A, repairing house and engine manufactory ;
n,
lathe room ;
t,
road next the arrival stage to the town for the passengers inwards ;
b,
offices for goods and general store department ; 7, 7, goods’ arrival and departure sheds, with roads,
t
and s, to and from the town ; α, the point from which the engine tows in the goods’ arrival trains with a rope ; r, workshops, lodging houses, &c.
Fig. 4, another plan of a principal station in which turnplates are required ; the same letters refer to the same things.
Fig. 2, an elevation, and fig. 3 a plan of the fittings to a booking office ; α,
a,
the counter ;
b,
the clerks for booking second-class passengers ; c, the clerks for booking first-class passengers. The first-class passengers enter by the right hand door c', and having received their tickets, pass through
c
to the door cw , which leads to the first-class working room and the platform. The second class passengers enter by the left hand door
b',
and in like manner pass through
bμ 
and
b"r
, which leads to the second-class waiting room and platform.
Plate CC CCXXVII I.
Turnplates in plan and section, with details.
Fig. 1, the plan; fig. 2, the section ; fig. 3, elevation of the frame ; fig. 4, catches ; these should have long handles to lift them by; fig. 5, elevation of roller and turnplate on it ; fig. 6, the roller ; fig. 7, section of the roller ; fig. 8, provision to lock the plate when required, by inserting a bolt through the plate and frame.
Plate CCCCXXIX.
a,
the steam whistle which is made use of to warn workmen on the road, and persons on the stations, when the engine is approaching;
b,
an elevated dome, ιιpwhit, h the steam pipe rises to nearly the top, to prevent the motion of the engine throwing water out of the boiler. This dome, when taken off, forms the manhole ; c, working safety valve, the lever of winch is attached to a spring weighing-machine ; </, lock-up safety valve, which is screwed down to the required pressure by a series of springs ; c, chimney ; this generally has a wire gauze at the top to prevent the escape of sparks, and sometimes a damper to regulate the force of the blast-pipe;
f
smoke box, in which are the cylinders, the end of one of which is seen at7, with the cock Λ, which is to let Outcondenscd water or priming from the cylinder. There is a large door in the front of the engine, opening into the smoke-box, to allow of repairs being made to the cylinders, tubes, &c. inside ;
t. », »,
three guage cocks, to ascertain the height of the water in the boiler ; A, water guage, shewing in a glass tube the height of the water in the boiler. This guage communicates by a cock at the top with tbe steam, and by one at the bottom with die water. It also has a second cock at the bot
tom, for the purpose of emptying it when necessary ; Z, steam regulator, by turning which, the steam is shut off, or let into the cylinders ;
m,
   railing round the place where the engine-man and fireman stand ;
n,    fire box, containing the furnace, round which a thickness of about three inches of water circulates from the boiler ; the top is also full of water to the height of that in the boiler ; 0, supply pipe connected with the tender, from which water is pumped in at pleasure by means of the pumps
p,
which are worked by arms fixed on the piston rods, and running in guides ; 7, the handle which turns the pet cock; this is used by the engine-man to ascertain when his pumps are in proper order, in which case it throws out water, but when they are deranged it gives out steam ; there is one on each side of the engine ; r, cock by which the boiler is emptied, and tbe engine blown off. Plates also take off at the bottom of the boiler, and open into the mud-holes, which are also used to clean the engine internally ; 
s, s,
strengthening rods to the frame-work of the engine ; f, <, stays from the framing to the boiler;
m,
draw-bar to which the tender is attached ;
v,
door to the furnace ; there is a similar one to the lower part of the fire-box, which is formed into the ash pit, and is open to the front for the purpose of increasing the draft ;
w,
the frame-work of the engine. Some makers place this with its breadth horizontal instead of vertical, and Mr. Bury of Liverpool has his bearings inside the wheels instead of outside ;
x, xt
the axle guards which play up and down in grooves in the sides of the axle-boxes ;
y,
hook for attaching carriages to the foremost end of the engine ; there is a similar one on the other side ;
z,
the buffer.
The lower part of the boiler has a number of brass tubes running along its whole length, through which the flame and hot air rush in their passage to the chimney, up which the steam, after it has performed its office in the cylinders, is thrown through an iron pipe called the blast pipe. This is one of the most essential of all the improvements of the locomotive. Tbe boiler is cased with wood, to preserve the heat as much as possible ; its tubes last about two years, and cost about L.l each.
The steam pipe, by which the steam is conveyed to the cylinders, is divided into two after it enters the smoke-box, and one goes to each cylinder ; these are all made of copper, and the entrance and exit of the steam into the cylinder is regulated by slide valves worked by eccentrics on the cranked axle, which move levers fixed to the weigh bars. The pistons are formed of metal rings in several divisions, so placed as to break joint. The piston rod is fixed with a joint to the connecting rod ; and this last gives motion to the cranked axle, having its end next the piston rod fixed to the cross heads, each end of which work in guide blocks, thus causing a parallel motion in the piston rod.
The cranks are placed at right angles to each other, to enable the engine to get over her centres ; one piston thus works at the greatest advantage, when tbe other is at the least. By the eccentrics on the crank axle, and a series of levers, the slide valves are continually worked backwards and forwards with the engine, and this motion can be reversed instantly, so as to cause the engine to
go
in the opposite direction when required ; this is done by means of the long handle near the fire box, which moves against an arc having three notches in it ; when the handle is placed in the upper or lower notch, the engine goes either forward or backward, and when in the middle, tbe slide valves no longer work. There are many modes by which this is arrived at by different makers, nnd there is generally two starting handles, by pulling which the slides can be worked by hand ; these are constantly in motion while the engine is going.
Proper cups containing oil are placed over each of the working parts, so as to ensure a steady and constant supply of oil to every moving portion of the engine. These cups have a tube inside them, which leads through to the part which is intended to be supplied with oil. and a cotton wick is put through the tube, one end of which hangs over the top into the oil cup, «and thus acts as a syphon. The axle boxes are filled with grease, and have a cover on the top to ensure a proper lubrication of the axles.
Inside bearings are often used to strengthen the engine, and ensure its correct action ; they also steady the cranked axle against the horizontal force of the piston rods. The whistle is formed by a pipe through which the steam is allowed to pass at pleasure, by turning a cock; it then rushes against the thin edge of the upper domed part, which is hollow like a bell, and gives out a clear sound when the cock is properly turned, which may be heard at a very great distance.
The buffers consist of leather cushions stuffed with horse hair, and their use is to break the shock arising from any concussion which the engine may receive. Each of the wheels has a cover, called a splasher, I
∣
laced over them, to prevent their throwing the dirt from the rails into the machinery. Sometimes two pair of wheels are coupled together ; this gives more adhesion, and is generally done to goods’ engines only, which also have usually their wheels of less diameter than those used 
for
passenger trains, velocity being not so much an object as power of draught. JVIr. Stephenson does not now make his engines with any flanges on the middle pair of wheels.    
(b. h.)
