direction of the axis ; and they were summed up in such a manner as to give the impulse of the whole stream. The deflections were marked as far a-head of the cylinder as they could be observed with certainty. By this method the impulse was computed to be 2¼
⅙
ounces, differing from observation
fe of an
ounce, or about ∙⅛ of the whole ; a difference which may most reasonably be ascribed to the adhesion of the water, which must be most sensible in such small velocities. These experiments may therefore be considered as giving all the confirmation that can be desired of the justness of the principles. This indeed hardly admits of a doubt ; but the method gives us but small assistance, in as far as it leaves us in every case the task of observing the form of the curves and the velocities in their different points. To derive advantage from this method of Daniel Bernoulli, we must discover some means of determining,
a priori,
what will be the motion of the fluid whose course is obstructed by a body of any form. And here we cannot omit taking notice of the casual observations of Sir Isaac Newton when attempting to determine the resistance of the plane surface, or cylinder, or sphere exposed to a stream moving in a canal. He says, that the form of the resisting surface is of less consequence, because there is always a quantity of water stagnant upon it, and which may therefore be considered as frozen ; and he therefore considers that water only whose motion is necessary for the most expeditious discharge of the water in the vessel. We are disposed to think, that in this casual observation Sir Isaac Newton has pointed out the only method of arriving at a solution of the problem ; and that, if we could discover
what motions are not necessary for the most expeditious passage of the water,
and could thus determine tlle form and magnitude of the stagnant water which adheres to the body, we should much more easily ascertain the real motions which occasion the observed resistance.
In the mean time, we may admit this as a physical truth, that the perpendicular impulse or resistance of a plane surface, wholly immersed in the fluid, is equal to the weight of the column having the surface for its base, and the fall producing the velocity for its height.
This is the medium result of all experiments made in these precise circumstances. And it is confirmed by a set of experiments of a kind wholly different, and which seem to point it out more certainly as an immediate consequence of hydraulic principles.
If a tube, open at both ends, and bent into a right angle near one of its extremities, be held in an upright position, and the open mouth of the bent end be exposed directly to a stream of fluid issuing from a reservoir or vessel, the fluid is observed to stand in the upright tube precisely on a level ¼τ ith the fluid in the reservoir. Here is a most unexceptionable experiment, in which the impulse of the stream is actually opposed to the hydrostatical pressure of the fluid in the tube. Pressure is in this case opposed to pressure, because the issuing fluid is deflected by what remains in the mouth of the tube, in the same way in which it would be deflected by a firm surface. We shall have occasion by and by to mention some most valuable and instructive experiments made with this instrument, which is known by the name of Pitot’s tube.
It wt as this which suggested to Euler another theory of the impulse and resistance of fluids, which must not be omitted, as it is applied in his elaborate performance on the Theory of the Construction and Working of Ships. He supposes a stream of fluid, moving with any velocity, to strike the plane BD perpendicularly, and that part of it goes through a hole, forming a jet. Euler says, that the velocity of this jet will be the same with the velocity of the stream. Nowr compare this with an equai stream issuing from a hole in the side of a vessel with the same velocity. The one stream is urged out by the pressure occasioned by the
impulse of the fluid ; the other is urged out by the pressure of gravity. The effects are equal, and the modifying circumstances are the same. The causes are therefore equal, and the pressure occasioned by the impulse of a stream of fluid, moving with any velocity, is equal to the weight of a column of fluid whose height is productive of this velocity, &c. He then determines the oblique impulse by the resolution of motion, and deduces the common rules ofresistance, &c.
But all this is without just grounds. Not a shadow of argument is given for the leading principle in this theory, viz. that the velocity of the jet is the same with the velocity of the stream. None can be given, but saying that the pressure is equivalent to its production ; and this is assuming the very thing he labours to prove. The matter of fact is, that the velocity of the jet is greater than that of the stream, and may be greater almost in any proportion ; which curious circumstance was discovered and ingeniously explained long ago by Daniel Bernoulli in his
Hydrodynarnica.
It is evident that the velocity must be greater. Were a stream of sand to come against the plane, what goes through would indeed preserve its velocity unchanged ; but when a real fluid strikes the plane, all that does not pass through is deflected on all sides ; and by these deflections forces are excited, by which the filaments which surround the cylinder immediately fronting the hole are made to press this cylinder on all sides, and as it were squeeze it between them ; and thus the particles at the hole must of necessity be accelerated, and the velocity of the jet must be greater than that of the stream. Wτ e are disposed to think that, in a fluid perfectly incompressible, the velocity will be double, or at least increased in the proportion of 1 to
s∕2.
If the fluid is in the smallest degree compressible even in the very small degree that water is, the velocity at the first impulse may be much greater. Daniel Bernoulli found that a column of water moving five feet per second, in a tube some hundred feet long, produced a velocity of 136 feet per second in tlle first moment.
There being this radical defect in the theory of Euler, it is needless to take notice of its total insufficiency for explaining oblique impulses and the resistance of curvilineal prows.
D’Alembert has attempted a solution of the problem in a method entirely new and extremely ingenious. Bernoulli had only considered the pressures which were excited in consequence of the curvilineal motions of the particles. D’Alembert thought that these pressures were not the consequences, but the causes, of these curvilineal motions. No internal motion can happen in a fluid but in consequence of an unbalanced pressure ; and every such motion will produce an inequality of pressure, which will determine the succeeding motions. He therefore endeavoured to reduce all to the discovery of those disturbing pressures, and thus to the laws of hydrostatics. Assisted by that general principle of dynamics which he had previously established, and which had enabled him to solve many of the most difficult problems concerning thc motions of bodies, such as the centre of oscillation, of spontaneous conversion, the precession of the equinoxes, &c. &c. with great facility and elegance, he demonstrates, in a manner equally new and simple, those propositions which Newton had so cautiously deduced from his hypothetical fluid, showing that they were not limited to this hypothesis, viz. that the motions produced by similar bodies, similarly projected in them, would be similar ; that whatever were the pressures, the curves described by the particles would be the same ; and that the resistances wr ould be proportional to the squares of the velocities. He then comes to consider the fluid as having its motions constrained by the form of the canal or by solid obstacles interposed.
He supposes, in the first place, a solid body or obstacle
