more correctly, he taught them to speak and not to declaim.
Asto his works, his countrymen have reason to beproudof them. He is the poet of theheart and the affections, and yields to none in the truth, the beauty, and the force of his delineations. If Corneillesurpassed him in heroic sentiments, and the grand character of his personages, he was inferior to Racine in moving the passions, and in purity of diction. Such is the perfection of Racine in this last respect, that in all his pieces, there is not perhaps, we do not say a scene, but even a single verse, which could be replaced by another. All is just and true ; all is full of that poetry of images and sentiments, and that continued elegance which, since the time of the Greeks, Virgil and Racine have alone possessed. But above all, it is in
Esther
and in
Athalie,
particularly in the choruses of these two tragedies, that, sustained by the most sublime models, he is himself almost always sublime. It is there that Racine has all the elevation of a Hebrew prophet, who had come to announce divine truths in strains almost divine. But that which chiefly characterises Racine is the complete union, perhaps unique, of two qualities which appear to be incompatible ; of imagination the most brilliant, and reason the most perfect, of sensibility the most exquisite, with good sense the most invariable. Reason, in fact, as much and even more perhaps than imagination, predominates in the conception of his most touching productions, in the execution of his most dramatic scenes, in the choice of his richest expressions, and in his boldest combinations, as well as most elliptical turns. Boileau, who has been surnamed the poet of reason, is not, even in this view, superior to Racine ; and, besides, the quality here mentioned is the less astonishing in him, because it is accompanied with an imagination much less lively. Racine has often been pronounced the greatest of the French poets. He should also be set down as the most rational ; or rather, it is precisely because he really is the most rational, that he is likewise the greatest.
There are some smaller pieces of Racine which hate not been mentioned in the course of this article, particularly Idylle sur la Paix, 1685 ; Discours prononcé à l’Académie Française, en 1685 ; Cantiques Spirituelles, 1689 ; and Epigrammes Diverses. The most complete edition of the Works of Racine is that which M. Aimé Martin published at Paris in six vols. 8vo. in 1820, reprinted by Lefèvre in 1822.
RACING, the riding heats for a plate, Orotherpremium. The amusement of horse-racing, which is now so common, was not unknown amongst the great nations of antiquity, nor wholly unpractised even by our ancestors in Britain. In 1599, private matches between gentlemen, who rode their own horses, were very common; and in the reignof James I. public races were established at various places, when the discipline, and mode of preparing the horses for running, were much the same as they are now. The most celebrated races of that time were called bell-courses, the prize of the conqueror being a bell ; and hence, perhaps, is derived the phrase “ bearing the bell,” when applied to excellence. For a full account of the race-horse, see Hokse.
RACK, Edmund, a person well known in the literary world by his attachment to, and promotion of, agricultural knowledge. He was a native of Norfolk, and a Quaker. His education was common, and he was originally apprenticed to a shopkeeper. In this situation his society was select, and by improving himself in learning, his conversation was enjoyed by some respectable acquaintance. Hewrote many essays, poems, and letters, and some few- controversial tracts. His last engagement was the History of Somersetshire, where the parochial surveys were his. This work, in three volumes 4to. was published in 1791, by his colleague, Mr. Collinson. Mr. Rack died of an asthma in February 1787, aged fifty-two.
Rack, an engine of torture, furnished with pulleys, cords, and other means, for extorting confession from criminals. The trial by rack is unknown to the law of England ; though once, when the Dukes of Exeter and Suffolk, and other mi-nistersofHenryVI.hadformedadesign to introduce the civil law into this kingdom as the rule of government, they erected a rack for torture, which was called in derision the Duke of Exeter
, s Daughter, and still remains in the Tower of London, where it was occasionally used as an engine of state, not of law, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. But when, upon the assassination of Villiers duke of Buckingham, by Felton,itwas proposed in the privy council to put the assassin to the rack in order to discover his accomplices, the judges, being consulted, declared unanimously, that no such proceeding was allowable by the laws of England. It seems astonishing that the usage of administering the torture should be said to arise from tenderness to the lives of men ; and yet this is the reason assigned for its introduction in the civil law, and its subsequent adoption by the French and other foreign nations, namely, because the laws cannot endure that any man should die upon the evidence of a false or even a single witness, and therefore contrived this method that innocence should manifest itself by a stout denial, or guilt by a plain confession ; thus rating a man’s virtue by the hardiness of his constitution, and his guilt by the sensibility of his nerves. The Marquis of Beccaria, in an exquisite piece of raillery, has proposed this problem, with a gravity and precision that are truly mathematical : “ The force of the muscles and the sensibility of the nerves of an innocent person being given ; it is required to find the degree of pain necessary to make him confess himself guilty of a given crime.”
RACKOKE, one of the Kurile isles, about 13 miles in length, and the same in breadth. Itcontainsan active volcano.
RaCONIGHI, a city of the province of Saluzzo
1 in the kingdom of Sardinia in Italy. It is situated on the river Maira, where there is a magnificent palace of the Prince Car-ignan. It contains four monastic and two parish churches, and 1300 houses, with 11,200 inhabitants, who produce silk, and make it into various articles, and have also a considerable trade in corn, as well as in raw and organzined silk.
RADCLIFFE, Mκs. Ann, the celebrated author of the
Romance of the Forest,
and the
Mysteries of Udolpho,
was born in London on the 9th of July 1764. She was the daughter of William and Ann Ward, who, though in trade, were respectably connected, and nearly the only persons of their two families not living in handsome, or at least easy independence. Her paternal grandmother was a Chesel-den, the sister of the celebrated surgeon, of whose kind regard her father had a grateful recollection ; and her maternal grandmother was Anne Oates, sister of Dr. Samuel Jebb of Stratford, the father of Sir Richard, on which side she was also related to Dr. Halifax, bishop of Gloucester, and to a gentleman of the same name, who was physician to the king. Ofthe history of her early years, during which the mind usually gives indications of its prevailing tendencies, no record whatever has been preserved. About the time of her twentieth year, however, she is described as possessing a figure exquisitely proportioned, a fine complexion, a beautiful and expressive countenance, and tastes which led her to take delight in contemplating the glories of creation, particularly the grander features they display, listening to music skilfully performed, hearing passages from the Greek and Latin classics recited and translated, and preferring the pleasures of meditation to those of society.
Thus respectably born and connected, Miss Ward, at the age of twenty-three, acquired the name which she subsequently rendered so celebrated, by marrying Mr. William Radcliffe, a graduate of Oxford, and then a student of law. This gentleman, however, renounced the prosecution of his legal studies, and afterwards became proprietor and editor of the
English Chronicle.
Mrs. Radcliffe having thus a
