M.
Brogniart founded the four great orders of the class Reptilia, which are now so generally adopted in the works of systematic authors.@@1 They are as follows.
l
st
, The Chelonian Reptiles (turtles, tortoises, &c.), of which the heart is provided with two auricles, and the body, borne on four legs, is contained as it were within an upper and an under buckler, formed by a peculiar structure of the ribs and sternum.
2d,
The Saurian Reptiles (crocodiles, lizards, &c.), which have likewise two auricles and four legs, but the body is covered w, ith scales.
3
d
, The Ophidian Reptiles (or serpents), which have a heart furnished with two auricles, but the body is destitute of legs.
4
th
, The Batrachian Reptiles (frogs, toads, &c.), in which
tlle
heart has only a single auricle, the body is naked, and the majority of species undergo a kind of transition as they advance in age, from the form of a fish with gills to that of a quadruped with lungs. Some, however, as already mentioned, never lose their gills, and a few have only a single pair of legs.
Our notices of the various genera of the different orders must be here extremely brief; and in the following slight sketch we shall adhere, as we have done in most of our zoological treatises, to the systematic exposition of Baron Cuvier.@@2
Order I.—CHELONIA. CHELONIAN REPTILES.
The various groups of this order are known to English readers by the general names of
tortoise
and
turtle,—
the former appellation being usually bestowed on those which dwell on land, the latter on such as inhabit water. The heart is composed of two auricles, and of a ventricle with two unequal chambers communicating with each other. The blood from the body enters into the right auricle, that from the lung into the left ; but both streams mingle together more or less in passing by the ventricle.
All the species of this order are distinguished at first sight by the peculiar armature in which the body is contained, and which consists of an upper and under buckler, nearly meeting along their edges, and permitting only the head, limbs, and tail to appear externally. The upper buckler, called the
carapace,
is formed by the ribs, which amount to eight pair, extended and united by toothed sutures between, and having bony plates adhering to the annular portion of the dorsal vertebra, and so connected that all these parts are rendered motionless. The under buckler is called the
plastron,
and is composed of portions which represent the sternum, and which are usually nine in number. A kind of lateral edging or frame-work, consisting of osseous pieces, bearing some analogy to the sternal or cartilaginous portion of the ribs, and which in one sub-genus even continue cartilaginous, surrounds the carapace, binding and uniting together the ribs by which it is composed. Thus the cervical and caudal vertebra alone retain the power of distinct movement. See Plate CCCCXXX. fig. 1.
These two bony envelopes being covered immediately by skin or scales, the shoulder-blade and all the muscles of the neck and fore-arms, instead of having their attachments over the ribs and spine, as in other animals, are supported from beneath these parts ; and the same peculiarity occurs in relation to the bones of the lower extremity and the muscles of the thighs, so that, as Baron Cuvier observes, a turtle may be termed “
un animal retourne f
as if it had been turned inside out.
The vertebral extremity of the shoulder-blade articulates with the carapace ; and the opposite end, which may be regarded as analogous to the clavicle, articulates with the plastron in such a manner that the two shoulders form a ring through which the oesophagus and wind-pipe pass. A third bony branch, larger than the other two, and directed downwards and backwards, represents, as in birds, the coracoid process, but its posterior extremity is free.
The lungs are much expanded, and lie in the same cavity with the other viscera. The thorax being immoveable in the majority of species, it is by the play of the mouth that the Chelonians respire,—holding the jaws closed, and alternately lowering and raising the hyoid bone. The first movement permits the air to enter by the nostrils, and then the tongue closing the interior opening, tlle second movement forces the air into the lungs.
The Chelonians have no teeth, but their jaws are furnished with a horny substance like the mandibles of birds, with the exception of the
Chelydes,
in which they are cover
@@@
1
Essai d'une Classification Naturelle des Reptiles,
Paris, 1805.
@@@2 The following are some of the principal works on reptiles in general. We do not here name those systematic writers who have treated of the class in question merely in t tie course of their universal exposition of the animal kingdom, although they are elsewhere referred to in the progress of the present treatise.
J. N. Iaurenti,
Specimen Mediαιm, exhibens synopsis Reptilium emendatam, cum experimentis circa venena et antidota Reptilium Austria, eorum,
1768. This work has been since attributed to M. Winterl, a chemist of Vienna, who is merely named by Laurenti, on the terminal page, as having been a co-labourer in his therapeutical experiments. Lacepède,
Histoire Naturelle des Quadrupèdes Ovipares et des Serprns, 2
vols. 4to, 1788-90. The Abbé Bonnaterre is the author of the text which accompanies the plates of reptiles in the French
Encyclopédie,
under the title of
Tableau Eitcyclopidique et Mithodique des trois Règnes de ta Nature (Erpétologie et Ophiologie),
4to, 1789-90. L. J. M. Daubenton composed
Les Quadrupèdes Ovipares et les Scrpens,
in
Dictionnaire des Animaux Vertébrés,
tom. ii. part. 
de CEncyclop. Method.
J. G. Schneider, the celebrated Greek scholar, has not published any general work on reptiles, but has written extensively on various groups. His productions are the following:—
Amphibiorum Physiologiae Specim.
i. and ii. 1797∙
Amphibiorum naturalis et Httcrariee Fascicutns primus, continens Runas, Calamitas, Bufones, Satamandras, et Hydros, in genera et species descriptos notisque suis distinctos,
I799.
Fasciciitiu secundus, continens Crocodilos, Scincos, Chanursuuros, Boas, Pseudoboas, Etapes, Angues, Amphisbanas, Ca-
cilias,
1801. Latreille,
Histoire Halnrette des Reptites,
four vols, small 12mo, 1801. Dr Shaw,
Generat Zoology,
vol. iii__
Amphibia,
1802. F. M. Daudin,
Histoire KatareUe des Reptiles,
eight vols. 8vo, 1802-3. Alex-Brogniart,
Essai d'une Classification Naturelle des Reptiles,
1805. M. Oppel, Die
Ordnungen Famitien und Gattnngen der Reptilien, ah Prodrom einer Natiirgeschichtc dersetben,
one vol. 4to, 1811. Bias. Merrem,
Tentamen Systematis Arnphibiorum,
one vol. 8vo, 1820. A. H. Haworth, A Letter on the Binary Arrangement of the Class of Reptiles, in the
Phitosophieat Maganine
for 1825, p. 372. F. J. Fitzinger,
Neue Classification der Reptilien,
one small vol. 4to, 1826. Ritgen, A Classification of Reptiles, in
Nova Acta Acad. Nat. Cur.
for 1828. Bory St Vincent,
Résumé d'Erpétotogie, ou Hist. Nat. des Reptiles,
12mo, 1828. J. Wagler,
Naturtiches system der Amphibien,
one vol. 8vo, 1830. We have also by the same author an uncompleted work,
Iconcs et Descriptiones Amphibiorum,
two fascic. folio, 1830, as well as some explications and critical remarks on Seba’s plates of reptiles
(Isis,
1833, ninth cahier, p. 885). J. E. Gray,
Synopsis Rcptitium,
part 1st, 1831 ; and later in tbe same year,
Synopsis of the species of the Class Reptitia,
in Griffith’s
Animat Kingdom,
end of vol. ix. John Muller,
Beitrage fur Ana. tomie und Naturgcschichtc der Amphibien,
in Zeitschrift fur Physiologie von Tiedemann, &c. No. 19, p. 190, 1832. H. T. Schinz, 
Naturgeschiehte und Abbitdnngen der Reptilien,
4 fascic. large 4to, 1833. We conclude the list with a reference to a work already named, and frequently hereafter quoted, the
Erpétologie Générale, ou Histoire Hatnretle complète des Reptiles,
of Messrs Dumeril and Bibron (four vols. 8vo, with plates), 1834-38. This work is still in course of publication. It contains as yet only the Chelonian1 and a great portion of the Saurian Orders ; and when to these are added the Ophidian and Batrachian tribes, we doubt not it will be de∙ servedly regarded as the highest authority extant in all that regards the reptile race. We shall afterwards indicate the principal more special works which apply to particular departments of the’subject in hand.
