ed slightly projecting tubercles. Tlle scales on the under part of the tail are square and imbricated. Seba describes this as a Ceylonese species, and adds, that the name of 
gecko
is applied to it on account of its cry resembling that word. It is believed to occur throughout the Indian Archipelago. A belief prevails in the native country of this and other species, that an acrimonious fluid exudes from the lamellæ of the feet, and remaining on fruit, or other edible vegetation, is productive of injury to those who swallow it. A species is described by Bontius in his history of Java, under the name of Indian Salamander ; and that old author states that the Javanese are said to hold it up by the tail until it discharges a foam or sanies from the mouth, with which they poison their arrows.
Sect. 2.—Hemydactyli. Base of the toes furnished with an oval disk, formed beneath by a double row of scales 
en chevron ;
from the centre of this disk the second joint springs, and bears the third or nail at its extremity.
All the known species of the hemydactylous division have five nails on each foot, and a range of pores on each side of the anus. The scales beneath the tail are in the form of broad bands, like those of many serpents. A grayish red kind (
G. Verruculatus,
Cuv.) occurs in the southern countries of Europe. The body is beset with small, conical, slightly rounded tubercles, and circles of the same surround the tail. A nearly allied species
(G. mabuia,
Cuv.) is widely spread over the warmer parts of the new world, where it often enters dwelling-houses, occurring apparently identical both in Bengal and Pondicherry. Cuvier presumes it may have been transported thither accidentally in ships. A species more peculiar to India is
G. marginatus,
Cuv. of which the body is margined, and the tail flattened horizontally, with its edges sharp and slightly fringed.
Sect. 3.—Thecadactyli. Toes enlarged throughout their entire length, and furnished with transverse scales, which are divided by a deep longitudinal furrow, wherein the claw may lie entirely concealed.
Such as are clearly known do not want the claws except upon the thumbs. They have no pores upon the thighs, and the scales upon the tail are small. As an example, may be named the smooth, or, as it is sometimes called, the perfoliated gecko (
G. lœvis,
Daud.,
Stellio perfoliatus, 
Sclmeid.). The tail of this species in the natural or normal state is long, and surrounded by the usual fold ; but it is easily fractured, and the reproduced portion often assumes a bulbous form, with a tapering termination, not unlike a small turnip with its root. In this accidental condition it was formerly described as a distinct species, under the title of
Locerta rapicauda.
Sect. 4.—Ptyodactyli. Toes dilated only at the tips, and striated below. The dilatation is cleft, and the nail placed in the fissure. The whole of the toes are furnished with curved claws.
In some the toes are free, and the tail rounded. Such is
G. lοbatus,
Geoff., sometimes named the house-gecko. It is smooth, or at least both scales and tubercles are very small, the general colour reddish-gray speckled with brown. This species is common in houses in many of the countries on the southern and eastern parts of the Mediterranean. It is known in Cairo by the unlovely name of
αbou burs,
or 
father of the leprosy,
because it is supposed to produce that dreadful malady by poisoning provisions with its feet. Has-selquist relates that he saw at Cairo two women and a girl at the point of death, in consequence of their having eaten some cheese over which this creature chanced to crawl. He likewise mentions a man who, having laid hold of a gecko, his hand became instantaneously covered with red inflamed pustules, which were as itchy as those produced by the stinging of a nettle. Cats are said to eat these reptiles ; and they are driven from the Egyptian kitchens by the odour of garlic. The house-gecko feeds on insects, and its eggs are equal in size to a small nut. Its voice resembles that of a frog.
In others the tail is bordered on both sides by a membrane, and the feet are semi-palmated. Baron Cuvier is of opinion that they are probably aquatic. The species are truly singular in their external aspect. Such is the fimbriated gecko (
G.fimbriatus,
Cuv.), of which the form is much depressed, and the tail bordered by a lateral margin, which is also visible on the sides of the body, where, however, it becomes fringed or slashed. It is a native of Madagascar, where it is erroneously held in great dread. In Lacepède’s opinion, it connects together tlle cameleons, geckoes, and water-newts. It measures eight or nine inches in length ; and lives in trees, leaping from branch to branch. The colours of this species, like those of the cameleon, are very changeable, at least on the upper surface, the under portion being usually of a bright yellow. “ These changes,” says Dr Shaw, “ we are informed, have been observed in the living animal by Mons. Bruyeres in its native country, viz. Madagascar, where it is not very uncommon, and where, though a harmless animal, it is held in great abhorrence by the natives, who consider it of a poisonous nature, and fly from it with precipitation, pretending that it darts on their breast, and adheres with such force by its fringed membrane, that it cannot be separated from the skin without the assistance of a razor. The principal cause of this popular dread of the animal is its habit of running open mouthed towards the spectator, instead of attempting to escape when discovered. Its chief residence is on the branches of trees, where it lives on insects, holding itself secure by coiling its tail, short as it is, half round the twig on which it sits. It chiefly appears in rainy weather, when it moves with considerable agility, often springing from bough to bough. On the ground it walks but slowly, the fore-legs being shorteι than the hinder.”@@1
An equally singular species of this section is the scolloptailed gecko (
G. Caudiverbera),
which has no fringe upon the body, but a very peculiarly indented margination on each side of the tail. It is of a blackish colour, measures above a foot in length, and was found by M. Feuille in a fountain of the Cordilleras. Some confusion exists in systematic works between this species and that figured by Seba under the name of
Salamandra aquatica ex Arabia.
Sect. 5.—Spheriodactyli. Toes terminated by a small cushion without folds ; the claws retractile.
Such species as have the cushion double or notched in front are natives of the Cape of Good Hope and the East Indies. Example,
G. porphyrins,
Daud. More frequently the cushion is rounded and simple, as in the species called the spitting gecko (
G. sputator,
Lac.), a small reptile, pleasingly marked by transverse bands of brown upon a reddish ground. It inhabits houses in St Domingo. A lizard described by Sparman under the same specific name, if not identical with the species just named, no doubt pertains to this genus. It is said when disturbed by a near approach to eject from its mouth a black and acrimonious fluid into the face of the spectator, causing an inflammation of the skin, which, however, is allayed by rubbing the part affected with camphorated spirits of wine.
Finally, there are Saurians which, with all the characters
1
@@@
General Zoology,
iii 274.
