glass gives way within its ponderous jaws as easily as if ground in a coarse mill.
, During the season of love, in spring, the male alligator is a fierce and dangerous animal, and possibly its observation by different naturalists, at different seasons of the year, may account for the contradictions which pervade the recorded statements of its life and manners. When thus excited, no man dares to swim or wade among them, or, as Mr Audubon quietly observes, “ they are usually left alone at this season,” a delicate piece of attention, which, we doubt not, like other virtues, is its own reward. The female prepares her nest about the first of June, choosing a place about forty or fifty yards from the water, in some thick bramble or cane, where she gathers leaves, sticks, and rubbish of all kinds, carrying the materials in her mouth as a hog does straw. As soon as a proper nidus is formed, she lays about ten eggs, which she covers over with more rubbish and mud ; and proceeding in this manner, she deposits about fifty or sixty eggs in various layers. The whole is then covered up, matted, and tangled together with long grasses, in such a manner that it is extremely difficult to break it up. These eggs are in size Hkethose of a goose, but of a longer form, and are protected rather by a parchment-like transparent substance than by shell. Though they are not eaten either by hogs or vultures, the female, now not only wary, but ferocious, watches near the spot, visiting the water from time to time for food. The nest is of course easily discovered, as she always goes and returns the same way, and soon forms a conspicuous path by the dragging of her giant form. According to Mr Audubon, to whom we stand indebted for these details, it is not the heat of the sun which hatches the eggs, but that of the nest itself,—a perfect hot-bed, from the mode of its formation. The young, as soon as excluded, force their way through thc walls of their putrescent chambers, and issue forth all as beautiful and brisk as lizards. The female then leads them to the lake, or more frequently, for greater security, to some small detached bayou ; for now the males, their own ungentle fathers, will swallow them by hundreds, and the wood-ibis and sand-hill cranes devour them.@@1
A. Sclerops,
Cuv. ;
Croc. SclerOps,
Schn.
Spectacled alligator.
This is more especially the alligator of Guiana and Brazil. Its snout, though broad, has not the sides parallel, as in the preceding, and is more triangular in its shape. The lower edge of the orbits are very prominent, and a crest projecting between them gives the appearance whence their specific name is derived. Its colour is bluish-green above, and irregularly marbled green and yellow, more or less pale, below. Azara speaks ofa red variety, which is the most savage of all. It acquires a great size. Cuvier has seen it fourteen feet long ; and in Surinam some have attained the length of twenty and twenty-four feet. In South America it extends as far as 32° south latitude, the same distance from the equator on the one side, as the preceding species reaches on the other. It cannot run half so swiftly as man, and rarely attacks him ; but when the eggs are plundered, the female defends them courageously. She lays, according to some, as many as sixty, and covers them with a few leaves or a little straw. It passes the night in water, as Herodotus states of the crocodile of the Nile, and during thc day basks in the sun on the banks. It has been stated, that in certain places, when the morass is partially dried, the remaining water is so crowded with caymans that nothing is to be seen but their projecting backs.
It was probably over this species (the
Yacare
of Azara,
Jacare noir
of Spix) that Mr Waterton obtained his far-famed and well-known conquest ; and of it also that he relates the following anecdote. “ One fine evening last year, as the people of Angustura, said its governor, were sauntering up and down here on the bank of the Oronoco, I was within twenty yards of this place, when I saw a large cayman rush out of the river, seize a man, and carry him down, before any body had it in his power to assist him. The screams of the poor fellow were terrible as the cayman was running off with him. He plunged into the river with his prey ; we instantly lost sight of him, and never saw or heard him more.” The negroes of South America sometimes eat the flesh, notwithstanding its fetid and musky smell. Azara tells us that they succeed in sticking it with an armed harpoon, and after fatiguing it in the water, Dull it out by main force and despatch it.
A. Palpebrosus,
Cuv.
Bony eyelid alligator.
The muzzle in this species is somewhat longer and less depressed than in the preceding, and the margins of the orbits are not projecting. The character, however, which at once distinguishes it from all the other Crocodilidæ is, that the upper eyelid is wholly occupied with an osseous plate, divided into three pieces by sutures. None of its congeners have more than a small osseous particle near the inner angle. Its teeth are ½¾ on each side of each jaw. The interval between the two external toes is less palmated than in the other species, from which it may be concluded to be more terrestrial. This animal inhabits Cayenne, and exhibits considerable variation in its characters.
In addition to these clearly distinct species, naturalists now recognise the two following, viz. the dog-headed cayman,
Al. cynocephalus,
Dum. and Bib., and the black spotted cayman,
Al. puηctulatus,
Spix.2
FAMILY IL—LACERTINIDÆ. LIZAKDS IN GENERAL.
The members of this family are characterised by a slender extensile tongue, terminated by two filaments, like that of many snakes. All the four legs have five toes, separate, of unequal size, especially the hinder ones, and furnished with nails. The scales on the abdomen, and those beneath the tail, are disposed in transverse parallel bands. A produced portion of the skin, longitudinally cleft, and closing by a sphincter, protects the eye, beneath the anterior angle of which there is the vestige of a third eyelid. The false ribs do not form an entire circle.
The species of this family are numerous and diversified, and now constitute several generic groups. Like all other reptiles, they are much more abundant in sultry than in cold or temperate climates. “ I am positive,” says Mr Bruce, alluding to the lizard tribe in general, “ that I can say without exaggeration, that the number I saw one day, in the great court of the temple of the sun at Balbec, amounted to many thousands ; the ground, the walls, and stones of the ruined buildings were covered with them, and the various colours of which they consisted made a very extraordinary appearance, glittering under the sun, in which they lay sleeping and basking.” He adds, that the desert parts of Syria, bordering on Arabia Deserta, abound with these reptiles beyond the possibility of calculation.
The genus Monitor of Cuvier contains the largest species, some of them almost approaching to the size of crocodiles. They have teeth on both jaws, but none upon the palate. The greater number have the tail compressed, which aids their aquatic propensities. Their vicinity to water brings them into the frequent neighbourhood of crocodiles and caymans, and they are said to give warning of the approach of thcse formidable reptiles by a shrill whistle. Hence probably their name of monitor. That of
Tupinam-
1
@@@ See “ Observations on the Natural History of the Alligator,” hy John J. Audnbon, Esq. in
Edinburgh Ncui Philosophical Journal,
ii. 270.    
2 Erpttologie Generals,
iii. 86-91.
