result from the delicacy of texture and rarity which, comparatively speaking, all nets exhibit, when fairly used, and no contrivances adopted for abusively increasing the
take. 
The forms of nets vary according to the manner in which they are intended to act, and this is either by entangling the fish in their complicated folds, as in the
trammel,
receiving them into pockets, as in the
trawl,
suspending them by the body in the meshes, as in the
mackerel-net,
imprisoning them within their labyrinth-like
chambers,
as in the
stake-net,
or drawing them to shore, as in the seiwe. It is somewhat extraordinary that it was not until the year 1685 that nets were introduced into Norway, by one Claus Niels Sti-ningen. The fishermen set up a general outcry against so
pernicious an innovation,
and, after much disputing, the question was decided by an appeal to the law, and experience has confirmed the verdict, that nets are not only not prejudicial, but highly conducive to the prosperity of the fishing trade. Of the antiquity of the art of net-making it will not be necessary to enter into any detail ; that nets were invented at a very early period, and have been universally adopted all over the world, and were, and have been ever since, put to an infinite variety of uses, requires no farther proof than can be afforded by a reference to the works of the most ancient authors, both sacred and profane, by whom constant allusion is made to network ; and modern travellers have found it to be in vogue amongst the most rude as well as the most polished nations. For much curious information on this head w, e must refer the reader to
Beckmann
.@@1 One use of the net, however, though known to the ancients, and long since adopted in Italy and other hot climates, has only quite recently, and hitherto but partially, been recognised in this country. It deserves notice, not solely on account of its exhibiting a curious phenomenon in the habits of certain insects highly interesting to the naturalist, but, for the sake of humanity, it is worthy also of the attention of the philanthropist. It has been found by careful experiments that a net made of the finest thread, of any colour, and with meshes of one inch and a quarter square, effectually keeps out the house-fly from the apartments across the open windows of which it is spread.@@2 We must leave it to others to speculate upon the causes which operate on the imagination of the gnat and house-fly, so as to prevent them venturing through the “ capacious breadth of these divisions.” It has been suggested with much probability, that an optical delusion in the eyes of these insects produces this w’onderful effect. The fact having been so well ascertained, what is there, except prejudice, to prevent our taking advantage of it, as affording, at a very trifling expense, and with very little trouble, a material comfort, not only to “ the whole,” but to “ the sick ?” How refreshing will it prove to many a poor helpless sufferer to feel that he can enjoy in hot weather the luxury of fresh air, free from the irksome attacks of these persevering, buzzing, biting disturbers of his peace, at a time when he most needs repose, and ever)’ palliative that art can suggest ! But our limits warn us to commence our practical directions relating to our subject. 1.
Tools and terms used by net-makers :— Accrues, false meshes,
or
quarterings,
are loops inserted in any given row, by which the number of meshes is increased. To
bread
or
Irreathe
a net, is to make a net.
Dead 
netting is a piece without either accrues, or
stole
(stolen) meshes, which last means that a mesh is taken away by netting into two meshes of the preceding row at once, thereby diminishing the net at any part. The
head
of a net is the upper margin, along which the corks are strung upon a rope called the
head-rope.
The
foot
of a net is the opposite or lower margin, which carries the
foot-rope,
on
which, in many cases, leaden plummets are made fast.
Over
means wide, as a
day-net
is three fathoms long, and one
over 
or wide. The
lever
is the first row of a net.
Meshes
are the squares composing the net. A
needle
is the instrument used for holding and netting the material to be netted ; it is made with an
eye
E, a
tongue
T, and
a. fork
F, fig. 1, Plate CCCCXXXV. The twine is wound on it by being passed alternately between the
fork
and round the
tongue,
so that the turns of the string lie parallel to the length of the
needle,
and are kept on by the
tongue
and
fork.
A short
needle,
about four inches long, should be set apart for
mending.
A
spool
or
mesh-pin
is a round (fig. 2) or a flat (fig. 3) piece of wood, on which the
loops
are formed ; the circumference of the
spool
determining the size of the 
loops.
Each
loop
contains two sides of the square mesh ; therefore, supposing that it be required to make a mesh one inch square, that is, measuring one inch from knot to knot, a
spool
two inches circumference must he used. Large meshes may be formed by giving the twine two or more turns round the
spool,
as occasion may require, or the
spool
may be made flat, and of a sufficient width, having a portion cut away to admit the finger and thumb to grasp it conveniently (fig. 3). A pair of
round-pointed scissors,
so as to be carried conveniently in the pocket, and a
knife,
are likewise indispensable. To
return on your work
is, when, in
breading
a cylindrical net, you stop at any given point, turn your work and net back again, instead of going on round and round, as in forming the
regard
of the
hoop
net ; which is a slit made in that engine, through which the fisherman introduces his hand to extract the fish caught therein, when he goes to
look (regarder,
French) what success he has had. 
Taught,
tight ; the twine is pιdled
taught
when a knot is made. 2.
How to make the loop or stitch in netting.
Being so generally understood that any neighbour can in a few minutes teach the uninitiated, we shall not describe the process ; a little careful observation will show more than any written description can, however minute. 3. The same may be said
of making accrues.
It will be easily understood how a very simple manœuvre, when put in practice, becomes apparently complicated when described in words. It would be idle were we, under the plea of rendering this article complete, to encumber it with laboured explanations, if they can be called such, which leave the reader more in the dark than he was before. 4. Thc
bend-knot 
is constantly required for uniting two ends of twine together, &c., and is thus performed. See fig. 4, in which A and B are to be joined. 5.
The art of mending
is of great importance ; for, if the fisherman cannot mend an occasional rent, he will soon be obliged to have a new net. Two or three damaged meshes will, if neglected, speedily become a yawning hole ; whereas the engine will last a long time by taking care to replace injured parts properly, and without delay. By amateur netters and gamekeepers this part of the art of reticulation is generally unheeded, and a bungling confusion of threads, drawn together any how, serving rather to increase the mischief, is substituted for a neat and efficient repair. In order to explain, as clearly as may be, the method to be pursued, we must request the reader to suppose that a net (fig. 5) has an injury in the middle of the space indicated by the dotted lines. We must begin by
cutting
the net, that is, the hole must be enlarged, not only by removing that portion which is actually torn, but by cutting into the sound parts. This operation is represented in fig. 5. The parts to be cut away are marked by the transverse lines
b a a a, c b a a a d,
below the knots of the original net. It will be observed that, whereas at
a a a c, a a a d,
two sides of the meshes are cut,
@@@1 Beckmann’s History of Inventions, art.
Netting.
See also Adams's Roman Antiquities, “ Retiarius.” , See the @@@2 Transactions of the Entomological Society of London, vol. ii.
