quite a common occurrence, the smaller on the backs of the larger, groaning, and uttering their bellowing noise, like thousands of irritated bulls about to meet in fight ;@@1 but all so careless of man, that unless shot at or positively disturbed, they remained motionless, suffering boats or canoes to pass within a few yards of them without noticing them in the least. The shores are yet trampled by them in such a manner that their large tracks are seen as plentiful as those of sheep in a fold.” It was in the Red River, it seems, that so many thousands of these reptiles were killed, while a mania prevailed for wearing boots and shoes made of
crocodile leather.
This had fairly become an article of trade, many of the squatters following for a time no other business. But this leather, though handsome and pliant, exhibiting all the regular lozenges of the scales, and capable of receiving the highest polish, is not sufficiently firm or close-grained to prevent for any length of time the ingress of damp or moisture.
The power of this alligator lies chiefly in his jaws and tail. The latter is admirably adapted to serve as an ally to the former, because when curved into a semicircle it sweeps everything towards the enormous mouth. “ Woe be to him who goes within the reach of this tremendous instrument ; for, no matter how strong or muscular, if human, he must suffer greatly if he escapes with life. The monster, as he strikes, forces all objects within the circle towards his jaws, which, as the tail makes a motion, are open to their full stretch, thrown a little sidewise to receive the object, and, like battering-rams, to bruise it Shockinglyin a moment. The alligator, when searching after prey in the water, or at its edge, swims so slowly towards it as not to ruffle the water. It approaches the object sidewise, body and bead all concealed, till sure of his stroke ; then, with a tremendous blow, as quick as thought, the object is secured.” When these giant reptiles are engaged in fishing, the flapping of their tails upon the water may be heard at half a mile. In the vicinity of Bayou Creek, on the Mississippi, there are extensive shallow lakes and marshes, yearly overflowed by the dreadful flooding of that mighty river, and stored with myriads of fish of many different kinds—trouts, white perch, cat-fish, alligatorgars or devil-fish. Thither, in the heats of early autumn, after a burning summer sun has exhaled a quantity of water, the squatter, planter, hunter, all proceed in search of sport. The lakes are then not more than two feet deep, with a fine sandy bottom, and much grassy vegetation bearing seeds, keenly sought for by vast multitudes of water-fowl. In each lake is a deeper spot, called the Alligator Hole, because dug and dwelt in by these reptiles. There they may be seen in numbers lying close together. “ The fish that are already dying by thousands, through the insufferable heat and stench of the water, and the wounds of the different winged enemies constantly in pursuit of them, resort to the alligator’s hole to receive refreshment, with a hope of finding security also, and follow down the little currents flowing through the connecting sluices ; but no ! for as the water recedes in the lake, they are here confined. The alligators thrash them and devour them whenever they feel hungry ; while the wood-ibis destroys all that make towards the shore. The hunter, anxious to prove the value of his rifle, marks one of the eyes of the largest alligator, and as the hair-trigger is touched, the alligator dies. Should the ball strike one inch astray from
the eye, the animal flounces, rolls over and over, beating furiously with his tail around him, frightening all his companions, who sink immediately ; while the fishes, like blades of burnished metal, leap in all directions out of the water, so terrified are they at this uproar. Another and another receives the shot in the eye, and expires ; yet those that do not feel the fatal bullet pay no attention to the death of their companions till the hunter approaches very close, when they hide themselves for a few moments by sinking backwards.” So disinclined are they to attack the human race, that Mr Audubon and his companions have waded waist-deep among hundreds of them. The cattle-drivers may be often seen beating them away with sticks before crossing with their beasts, for they will readily attack cattle, and swim after such animals as dogs, deer, and even horses.
As soon as the cool autumnal air gives warning of the approach of frosty weather, alligators leave the lakes to seek for winter quarters, by burrowing beneath the roots of trees, or covering themselves with earth. They speedily become inactive ; and to sit and ride on one, according to Mr Audubon, who never rows in the same boat with Squire Waterton, would now be no more difficult than for a child to mount a rocking horse. The negroes kill them by separating, at a single blow, the tail from the body. They are afterwards cut into large pieces, and boiled in a good quantity of water, from the surface of which the fat is collected in large ladles. A single man often kills above a dozen alligators in an evening, prepares his fire in the woods, and, by morning, the oil is rendered. This oil is used for greasing the machinery of steam-engines and cotton-mills ; and formerly, when Indigo was made in Louisiana, it served (we know not how) to assuage the overflowing of the boiling juice, when a ladleful was thrown into the caldron. We would have deemed the remedy more dangerous than the disease. These reptiles emit a strong odour, and a large one may be discovered by it at a distance of sixty yards. The smell is musky, and, when strong, is insupportable. It is not, however, perceptible when they are in the water, “ although I have,” says Mr Audubon, “ been so close to them while fishing, as to throw the cork of my line upon their heads to tease them.” He adds, that he has regularly found in their interior round masses of a hard substance resembling petrified wood. He has broken these with a hammer, and found them brittle, and as hard as stones, which they outwardly resemble. “ And as neither our lakes nor rivers in the portion of the country I have hunted them in, afford even a pebble as large as a common egg, I have not been able to conceive how they are procured by the animals if positively stones, or (if not) by what power wood can become stone in their stomachs.” They are probably concretions formed of indigestible animal substances, or may themselves assist digestion.@@2 Mr Audubon has often amused himself, when fishing where alligators abounded, by throwing an inflated bladder towards the one next him in the water. It makes Ibr it at once, flapping it towards its mouth, and trying to seize it, but in vain. The light inflation floats aside, and in a few minutes many more of these huge creatures are seen attempting to master the delusive bladder, , ∙ putting one in mind of a crowd of boys running after a foot-ball.” A black bottle is also sometimes thrown among them, tightly corked ; but some one, more active than the rest, will seize it greedily, and the crunched
@@@1 The majority of authors who have written of crocodiles from personal observation, agree regarding the frequent cries of the younger individuals, but seem to consider the older ones as seldom giving utterance to their feelings in that way. “ Au contraire,” says Mumboldt, “ le rugissement du crocodile adulte doit être très rare, car avant vécu pendant plusieurs années ou en couchant à l’air libre sur les bords de PGrdnoque1 nous avons été presque toutes les nuits entourés des crocodiles, nous n'avons jamais entendu la voix de ces sauriens à taille gigantesque ”
(Recueil d'Obseiv. de Zoologie,
torn, i )
@@@2 “Une particularité' notable, mais qui parait assez constante chez les crocodiles, puisque tous les auteurs qui en ont fait l’anatomie en ont fait mention, c’est qu’on trouve dans leur estomac des cailloux de differentes grosseurs, qui semblent devoir servir à la trituration îles alimens, comme les petits pierres qui se rencontrent dans le gesier ou Vestamac musculeux des oiseaux.”
(Erpitologie
Giui-
raie,
iii. 27.)
