strong inducement to cultivate her literary powers, first came before the public as a novelist in 1789, two years after her marriage, and when she was yet only twenty-five years of age. The romance which she then produced, however, gave but a faint indication of the eminent powers afterwards displayed by the author. In the
Castles ofAthlin and Dun-bayηe,
the scene is laid in Scotland during the dark ages, but without any attempt to delineate the peculiar manners or scenery of that country ; and although we may trace some germs of that talent for the wild, the romantic, and the mysterious, which she afterwards employed with so much effect, yet, on the whole, this production cannot be regarded as at all worthy of her pen. Mrs. Radcliffe’s genius, however, was more advantageously displayed in the
Sicilian Romance, 
which appeared in 1790, and attracted a considerable share of public attention. This work displays the exuberant fertility Ofimagination which formed the principal characteristic of the author’s mind. Adventures heaped on adventures, in rapid andbrilliantsuccession,withall the hair-breadth charms of escape or capture, hurry the reader along with them ; whilst the imagery and scenery by which the action is relieved, resemble those of a splendid oriental tale. Still the work bore marked traces of the defects incident to an unpractised author. The scenes were inartificially connected, and the characters hastily sketched, without any attempt at individual distinctions ; the staple materials consisted of ardent lovers and tyrannical parents, with domestic ruffians, guards, and others, who had wept or stormed through the scenes of romance, without much change of character or features, for half a century before. Nevertheless, this praise may be claimed for Mrs. Radcliffe, that she was the first to introduce into her prose fictions a beautiful and fanciful tone of natural description and impressive narrative, which had hitherto been exclusively applied to poetry. Her style was as full of imagination as her subject, and she established a clear title to be considered as the first poetess of romantic fiction, that is, taking poetry in its true acceptation, apart from the mere accessory of rhythm.
The Romance of the Forest
appeared in the year I
Zifl,
and at once raised the author to that pre-eminence in her own style of composition, which her works have ever since maintained. In this new effort, her fancy was more regulated, and subjected to the fetters of a regular story. The characters, too, were depicted with skill far superior to that which the author had hitherto displayed, anil the work attracted the public attention in proportion. That of La Motte, indeed, is sketched with particular talent, and the interest of the piece mainly depends upon the vacillations of a character, which weakness and vice are at every moment on the point of rendering an agent in the greatest atrocities. He is the exact picture of the needy man who has knowτl better days ; one who, spited at the world, from which he had been driven with contempt, and condemned to seek an asylum in a desolate mansion full of mysteries and horrors, avenges himself by playing the gloomy despot within his own family, and tyrannising over those who were subjected to him only by their strong sense of duty. The heroine, too, has some pleasant touches of originality, which she displays in her grateful affection for the La Motte family, and her reliance on their truth and honour, when tlιe wife had become unkind, and the father treacherous. But this was not the department of art on which Mrs. Radcliffe’s popularity rested. “ The public,” says Sir Walter Scott, “ were chiefly aroused, or rather fascinated, by the wonderful conduct of a story, in which the author so successfully called out the feelings of mystery and awe, while chapter after chapter, and incident after incident, maintained the thrilling attraction of awakened curiosity and suspended interest. Of these every reader felt the force, from the sage in his study, to the family group in middle life, which assembles round the evening taper, to seek a solace from the toils of ordinary existence, by an excursion into the regions of imagination. The tale was the more striking, because varied and relieved by descriptions of the ruined mansion, and the forest with which it is surrounded, under so many different points of view’, now pleasing and serene, now gloomy, now terrible ; scenes which could only have been drawn by one to whom nature had given the eye of a painter, with the spirit of a poet.”
In 1798 Mrs-Radcliffe visited the scenery on the Rhine, and it is supposed that the
Mysteries of Udolpho
were written, or at least corrected, after the period of this journey ; the mouldering castles of the robber-chivalry of Germany, situated on the romantic banks of that celebrated stream, having, it is thought, given a bolder flight to her imagination, and a more glowing character to her colouring. The scenery on the Lakes of Westmoreland, which Mrs. Radcliffe had about the same period visited, was also calculated to awaken her fancy; nature having in these wild but beautiful regions, realised the descriptions in which she delighted toin-dulge. Her remarks upon the countries through which she travelled were given to the public in 1793, under the title of a
Journey through Holland,
&c. This, however, was merely a sort of intercalary production. As already hinted, her next effort in the province of romance, was the
Mysteries of Udol-pho,
Of this much was of course expected ; and the booksellers felt themselves authorised in offering for the work, what was then considered as an unprecedented sum, namely, L.500. But although a writer’s previous reputation often proves the greatest enemy he has to encounter in a second attempt upon public favour, yet Mrs. Radcliffe’s popularity stood the test, and was enhanced rather than abated by the
Mysteries of Udolpho.
“ The very name,” says Scott, “wasfascinating; and the public, who rushed upon it with all the eagerness of curiosity, rose from it with unsated appetite.” Theauthor pursuing her own favourite bent of composition, and again waving her wand over the world of wonder and imagination, had judiciously employed a spell of broader and more potent command. Every thing in the 
Mysteries of Udolpho
is on a larger and more sublime scale than in the
Romance of the Forest.
The interest is of a more agitating and tremendous nature ; the scenery is of a wilder and more terrific description ; the characters are distinguished by fiercer and more gigantic features. “ Mon-toni, a lofty-souled desperado, and captain of Condottieri, stands beside La Motte and his Marquis, like one of Milton’s fiends beside a witch’s familiar. Adeline is confined within a ruined mansion-house ; but her sister-heroine, Emily, is imprisoned in a huge castle, like those of feudal times. The one is attacked and defended by bands of armed banditti ; the other only threatened by a visit from constables and thief-takers. The scale of the landscape is equally different ; the quiet and limited woodland scenery of the one work, forming a contrast with the splendid and high-wrought descriptions of Italian mountain grandeur which occur in the other. In a word, the
Mysteries of Udolpho
was, at its first appearance, considered as a step beyond Mrs. Radcliffe’s former work, high as it had justly raised her ; and this impression has been confirmed by subsequent comparative perusal.”
The next'production by which Mrs-Radcliffe arrested the attention of the public, was destined to be her last. The
Italian,
which appeared in 1797, was purchased by the booksellers for L.800, and favourably received by the public. Sir Walter Scott praises the author for her judgment “ in taking such a point of distance and distinction, that wlιile employing her own peculiar talent, and painting in the style of which she may be considered the inventor, she cannot be charged with repeating or copying herself.” But mere change of subject, or taking a point of distance and distinction, as remote as possible from the scenes in which her imagination had previously expatiated, does not necessarily imply originality of invention in the construction and
