weight. We are sorry, however, to say, that they possess none ; they have left the main question as undecided as ever, and present little else but irrelevant matter, or that which contradicts itself. Our inquiry will naturally embrace, first, the reports themselves, and, secondly, the experiments on which they rest.
The first is Mr. Hawkshaw⅛, and this is so completely set at rest in the reply of Mr. Brunel, that no one would require any discussion respecting it. Mr-Hawkshaw states that at the risk of being tedious, he has endeavoured to develope the process by which he has arrived at his “ opinions,” because he thinks it better that his report should “ partake more of the nature of demonstration, than of mere assertion ;” and he then informs us that the Great Western Railway, “ has been applauded to the skies as wonderful ; it has been derided and run down as little less than nonsensical. Now it is neither one nor the other of these.” He has not furnished any “ demonstration” of this fact, and is much less fortunate in another assertion, namely, that on coming first on the Great Western line of railway, that which immediately strikes the attention is the “ enlarged capacity of all things.” We have travelled on that line now four times, but are not aware, from our own observation, that all the things which were on it possessed a larger “ capacity” than those which we have met on other railways.
i Coming next to the report of Mr. Wood, we find it stated that nearly all the experiments upon which it rests for its foundation, were made both by and under the superintendence of other persons, and the mere dressing them up, a purely arithmetical operation, has alone been performed by Mr. Wood. To those who are at all acquainted with that gentleman’s knowledge of formulæ and figures, this would be quite a sufficient intimation of what might be expected ; but, in addition to this, hardly any of the experiments are given in the report, and no formulæ ; and thus the only essential things, from which a right conclusion can be drawn, have been withheld from the shareholders. In the meantime the farce has been played out, and the curtain has fallen.
We shall not stop to notice such mistakes as, that one ton and a half is to one ton and a quarter as four to three ; but proceed to the tabular matter in the report, selected from all the records which have been taken of the various experiments, we presume, as that which was most worthy of being laid before the directors and the public, as a fair statement of the capabilities of the Great Western Railway as compared with others; and itshouldbe remembered that Mr. Wood sets out by laying down a rule that, unless his inquiries were conducted in such a way, as to “ elicit by incontrovertible and practical experiments, the relative capabilities of the two systems of forming and constructing railways,” it would “ not only be a waste of time, but would be attended with perhaps still worse consequences.”
The advantages which have been aimed at in the extension of the guage, from 4 feet 8 inches, to 7 feet, and in Mr. Brunel’s other alterations, are principally as follows. A greater speed ; a decrease of friction, by enlarging the diameter of the wheels ; greater stability, by keeping down the centre of gravity, through the body of the carriages being inside the wheels, and not over them, as in other railways. The main objections made to his system, are the increased cost of forming the railway ; the greater weight and size of the engines and carriages ; the additional friction on curves ; the extra cost of construction both in carriages and engines, and the impossibility of a junction with other railways. It is to strike a balance between these that Mr. Wood has produced what he states as “ correct and indisputable results.”
On the question of speed, Mr. Wood decides that the less powerful engines on the ordinary railways go within three miles an hour of the most powerful ones on the Great Western, and he presumes from this, that the more powerful ones would exceed the best of the Great Western engines ; the effective power yielded by the former being apparently much greater than that which is obtained from the latter. This very extraordinary statement is attributed to the resistance of the air, which Mr. Wood seems to think a new discovery in railway matters,although Newton, Robins, Sroeaton, Hutton, Dalton, Pambour, and others, have given it in print from nearly two hundred years ago up to the present day, and practical men have all along considered its effects on railways, whilst theorists alone have stated it to be of no consequence. It is twelve months since anemometers were planned, and estimates obtained for their erection at the stations along the London and Birmingham railway, by the writer of this article, at the desire of Mr. Bury, who has contracted for the locomotive power on that line. With respect to the speed of the Great Western engines, in consequence of those improvements to be expected in all mere mechanical contrivances, and which the usual engines have been ten years benefittingby, whilst thqse on the Great Western line are yet insufficiently tried, Mr. Brunel states, that since Mr. Wood’s experiments, he has so improved the very engine with which the highest velocity was then attained on those trials, that, all other things being the same, her performance was, and is as follows :—
Load ;    Average    Coke per ton
tons.    speed.    per mile.
Mr. Wood, Sept. 1838, 15 9    38½    2-76
Mr. Brunel, Dec. 1838, 40∙0    40    0∙90
The decrease of friction in large wheels is admitted as well as other conveniences, although it is stated these can be arrived at with a less guage than 7 feet, and 6 inches is given as the maximum increase on the old width requisite for improving the engines. The weight per passenger appears to be the same with the Great Western and the ordinaryrailway carriages, although Mr-Wood states they have l.j tons on each wheel, while the ordinary ones have only 1¼. That there is a greater stability and steadiness of motion in the carriages, Mr. Wood denies.
We have now to examine the tables given in this report, containing the incontrovertible experiments which are presented as affording a foundation for the opinions delivered, and it will be quite sufficient for every purpose of testing their value, if we take those on the deflection of the rails and supports on the Great Western and other railways. These experiments, it appears, w-ere made almost exclusively on the short space of about two miles in the clay cuttings near Paddington, undoubtedly the worst part of the road.
Mr. Wood states that stone blocks afford decidedly the firmest and most unyielding base, and that between longitudinal bearings, the usual sleepers, and the Great Western plan, not much difference of deflection exists. The w-eight of the engines not being given, we must chiefly confine our observations to the quantity of deflection produced by the coaches, the weight of which, on one wheel, is as 6 to 5 on the Great Western, compared with other railways.
Engines.    Coaches·
Vertical.    Lateral.    Vertical.    Lateial.
Great AVesternin a    per-
∣
    .J3113     .02 453    -10517    ∙02473
Do. with the piles    cut.    Ό979    ∙01047    ∙06923    ∙00843
Do. Wdththetransomscut.    -07743    -00513    -0768    -00353
The above are means of three deflections taken at a single transom, a double one, and mid-way between them. Comparing now the effect of coaches on this and other railways, we have as follows :—
Vertical
deflection.
London and Birmingham, 60 lb. parallel rail,
3- 75 feet bearings on blocks.....................-0261
Do.    do. 50 lb. fish belly, at
3 feet bearings on blocks........................-03277
