the object apparently being merely to comply with the act of Parliament, certainly not to let the passengers see the miles, for the marks are generally so short, that all persons in the middle seats of the carriages have no chance whatever of seeing them. What we should recommend would be light iron posts having a box on the top. The box may be made triangular in its ground-plan, (Plate CCCCXXV. fig. 5,) and be about one foot in height, the apex of the most obtuse angle facing the railway. This angle should be so obtuse as merely to allow room in the box to hang a small lamp, and the two sides which form this angle being made of glass, should be painted or ground, except the figures, which are left clear. These shew the miles by day, and the nearest policeman lighting the lamp, they are also shewn at night. Or the planes forming the sides of the triangle next the railway may be of sheet iron, with the figures cut out of it, and merely that portion covered with glass ; in either case the head must have
a
lid moving on a hinge. The height of these should be just half way up the carriage windows. In the cuttings, the post should be very short, and the mile mark set back on the slope. On the embankments it will be proportionally longer. It may have holes, or other ornaments, cast in its base, serving for steps to get up to light the lamp ; or this may be done with projecting rings, and a slide may be made to receive coloured glass as a signal of any accident.
When such mile marks as these are not adopted, and it is desired to know the velocity of a train at night, this may be readily done whenever the blast pipe of the engine sounds sufficiently loud to be heard, which is generally the case in most engines. The way to ascertain the speed at which the train is going, will be to count every fourth puff from the blast pipe in ten seconds, this giving one revolution of the driving wheels, and the speed will be had by the following table :
Blast pipe.
Velocity—miles.
Velocity—miles.
Number of fourth puffs in ten seconds.
Wheels,
5 feet diameter.
Wheels,
5
∖
feet diameter.
15
16∙06
17-67
16
17-14
18-85
17
18∙21
20-03
18
19∙28
21-21
19
20∙35
22-38
20
2I∙42
23-56
21
22.49
24-74
22
23-56
25-92
23
24∙63
27-10
24
25∙70
28-27
25
26∙77
29-45
26
27∙85
30-63
27
28-92
31-81
28
29-99
32-93
29
31-06
34-16
30
32.13
35-34
The rapidity with which the cylinders of steam are expelled through the blast pipe, would at any common velocity prevent every puff being counted ; but a very little practice will render the counting of every fourth one exceedingly easy, and the rate of going may always be found to the nearest half mile, by those who have only tried this method three or four times. A still easier method, although it will not generally be quite so accurate, is as follows : For five-feet wheels, count the number of fourth puffs in ten seconds and three quarters, and these will be the number of miles per hour the engine is going ; and for five feet six wheels, count the number of fourth puffs in eleven seconds and three quarters. The exact number of seconds is
10∙7 
and 11∙78. The method by the tables however is the best.
Paved crossings on a level with the railway are things to be avoided by all means whenever it is practicable to do so ; but as some cases will arise where they cannot be done away with, we must render them as little liable to danger as possible. We have given drawings of these, (figs. 29, 30, and 3l,) and an approved form of chair (fig. 28), which holds the rail, and also the two protecting irons, which should be laid next to the rails, in order that the wheels of those vehicles which cross the railway may not impinge upon the rails and injure them any more than can be helped. The whole crossing should be well paved with the usual road stones, and there must be strong gates on each side. These gates must be constructed so that when shut they may close up the road on either hand, and when open, may form a barrier across the railway.
The subject of lamps forms one to which attention is required, and we should recommend all railways to make a rcd light at night and a red flag by day, the symbols of danger. A green light should be placed at each station at the spot where the engine-man should slacken his speed, and a red light at the point where he is to stop. The police should have hand lanthoms, with a white glass and a red one, which latter can be turned round in an instant, whenever any thing obstructs the passage of the railway ; and the light held up at any train approaching, on seeing which the train is immediately to stop. A green glass may also be added, the signification of which would be, proceed with caution ; the train should then come slowly on and ascertain the reason for the signal.
For lighting the insides of the carriages, the roof lamps, contrived by the writer of this article, and patented, are the best. The frame is circular, about six inches in diameter, and about nine inches in height; the bottom is formed of a ground glass saucer, which is let through the roof of the coach, the top being protected by a box ; on the inside is a small fountain lamp, on an improved principle, which is very nearly shadowless ; the whole of the lamp body being above the frame, and the connection between them consisting of a tube¼l δ ths of an inch in thickness, which tube should always be turned towards the carriage door. These give a soft mellow light, by which the passengers may easily read.
Point signals should be made in the following manner.
