q
= 0∙433 ; and if from this we find values of
q
for the cube and three-feet prism (assuming
q
to vary inversely as log. ^1∙42 + -^J, according to what was above shown),
we shall have for the cube,
q =
0∙172, and for the prism,
q =
0∙102. Hence, if R denote the resistance due both to the pressure and non-pressure of the body when moving in quiescent water, the three values of R will be ll∙433,1∙172, and 1Ί02, which correspond to the weights 14 94 lbs., 12∙22 lbs., and 11∙49 lbs.
Hence Du Buat concludes, that the resistances in these two states are nearly in the ratio of 13 to K). This, he thinks, will account for the difference observed, in the experiments of different authors.
Du Buat next endeavours to ascertain the quantity of water which is made to adhere in some degree to a body which is carried along through still water, or which remains nearly stagnant in the midst of a stream. He takes the sum of the motions in the direction of the stream, viz. the sum of the actual motions of all those particles which have lost part of their motion, and he divides this sum by the general velocity of the stream. The quotient is equivalent to a certain quantity of water perfectly stagnant round the body. Without being able to determine this with precision, he observes, that it augments as the resistance diminishes ; for in the case of a longer body, the filaments a.re observed to converge to a greater distance behind the body. The stagnant mass a-head of the body is more constant ; for the deflection and resistance at the prow are observed not to be affected at the length of the body. By a very nice analysis of many circumstances, he comes to this conclusion, that the whole quantity of fluid, which in this manner accompanies the solid body, remains the same, whatever is the velocity. He might have deduced it at once, from the consideration that the curves described by the filaments are the same in all velocities.
He then relates a number of experiments made to ascertain the absolute quantity thus made to accompany the body. These were made by causing pendulums to oscillate in fluids. Newton had determined the resistances to such oscillation by the diminution of the arches of vibration. Du Buat determines the quantity of dragged fluid by the increase of their duration ; for the stagnation or dragging is in fact adding a quantity of matter to be moved, without any addition to the moving force. It was ingeniously observed by Newton, that the time of oscillation was not sensibly affected by the resistance of the fluid, a compensation almost complete being made by the diminution of the arches of vibration ; and experiment confirmed this. If, therefore, a great augmentation of the time of vibration be observed, it must be ascribed to the additional quantity Of matter which is thus dragged into motion, and it may be employed for its measurement. Thus, let
a
be the length of a pendulum swinging seconds in vacuo, and
l
the length of a seconds pendulum swinging in a fluid. Let
p
be the weight of the body in the fluid, and P the weight of the body displaced by it ; P +
p
will express its weight in va-
P + »
cuo, and ——— will be the ratio of these weights. We
shall therefore have ÏÜ? — 2 an fl ∕ =
n y-.
p l    P + p
Let
n
express the sum of the fluid displaced, and the fluid dragged along,
n
being a greater number than unity, to be determined by experiment. The mass in motion is no longer P+p, but P +
np,
while its weight in the
fluid is still p. Hence
l =
∙i °^—, and n = ⅞(-; — 1
∣
.
r    ηP + p    P
∖
l l
A prodigious number of experiments made by Du Buat
on spheres vibrating in water gave values of
n
which were nearly constant, namely, from 1∙5 to 1∙7 ; and by considering the circumstances which accompanied the variations of 
n
(which he found to arise chiefly from the curvature of the path described by the ball), he states the mean value of the number
n
at 1∙585. So that a sphere in motion drags along with it about -⅛ths of its own bulk of fluid with a velocity equal to its own.
Similar experiments with prisms, pyramids, and other bodies, afforded a complete confirmation of his assertion, that prisms of equal lengths and sections, though dissimilar, dragged equal quantities of fluid ; that similar prisms, and prisms not similar, but whose lengths were as the square root of their sections, dragged quantities proportional to their bulks.
He found a general value of
n
for prismatic bodies, which alone may be considered as a valuable result, namely, 
n =
0- 705    + 1∙13.
From all these circumstances, we see an intimate connection between the pressures, non-prtssures, and the fluid dragged along with the body. Indeed this is immediately deducible from first principles ; for what Du Buat calls the 
dragged fluid
is in fact a certain portion of the whole change of motion produced in the direction of the body’s motion.
It was found, that with respect to thin planes, spheres, and pyramidal bodies of equal bases, the resistances were inversely as the quantities of fluid dragged along.@@1
The reader will readily observe, that these views of the Chevalier du Buat are not so much discoveries of new principles as they are classifications of consequences which may all be deduced from the general principles employed by D’Alembert and other mathematicians. But they greatly assist us in forming notions of different parts of the procedure of nature in the mutual action of fluids and solids on each other. This must be very acceptable in a subject which it is by no means probable that we shall be able to investigate with mathematical precision.
The only circumstance which we have not noticcd in detail, is the change of resistance produced by the void, or tendency to a void, which obtains behind the body ; and we omitted a particular discussion, merely because we could say nothing sufficiently precise on
tlle
subject. Persons not accustomed to the discussions in the physico-mathema-
1
@@@ It is a remarkable circumstance, that these very important conclusions of the Chevalier du Buat, which were first published in the second edition of his well-known work in 1786, and which twice formed the subject of the prize proposed by the Academy of Sciences of Paris, should have been so little attended to by succeeding experimenters, that in the numerous attempts to determine the length of the seconds pendulum, no one thought of applying the additional correction for the reduction to a vacuum, which they so clearly make necessary, until the subject was again brought into notice by Bessel, in a memoir on the length of the seconds pendulum, published in 1828 (Memoirs of the Berlin Academy for 1826), in which the effect of the adhesive air was shown by decisive experiments, and given as an original discovery. Bessel determined the quantity denoted in the text by » in two different ways;—by swinging in air two spheres of equal diameter, but of different specific gravity (brass and ivory), and by swinging the same sphere alternately in air and water. The first mode gave n = 1∙946, a value which he afterwards increased to 1∙956 (Schumacher’s
AAronomisehe Na-chrichteη,
No. 223); and the second gave « = 1625, which is within the limits assigned by Du Buat. Mr BaiIy, who investigated this subject with great care by means of a vacuum apparatus, gives, as the mean result of his experiments, « = l∙846 ; and he observes that the experiments seem to show that in pendulums of equal length and of similar construction, the factor π depends on the 
form
and
magnitude
of the moving body, and is not affected by its weight or specific gravity. (Baily
on thc Correction of a Pendulum j'or the Ucduction to a Pucιιum,
Phil. Trans, for 1832.)
