proportion to the depth under the surface. For 57 : 73 = 32:41 very nearly. He therefore estimates the nonpressure to be -j⅛⅞ of the height of the water above the orifice.
We are disposed to think that the ingenious author has not reasoned accurately from the experiment. In the first place, the force indicated by the experiment, whatever be its origin, is certainly double of what he supposes ; for it must be measured by the sum of the rise of the water in one leg, and its depression in the other, the weight of the air in the bend of the syphon being neglected. It is precisely analogous to the force acting on the water oscillating in a syphon, which is acknowledged to be the sum of the elevation and depression. The force indicated by the experiment therefore is ¼ J
⅙
of the height of the water above the orifice. The force exhibited in this experiment bears a still greater proportion to the productive height ; for it is certain that the water
did not
issue with the velocity acquired by the fall from the surface, and probably did not exceed two thirds of it. The effect of contraction must have been considerable and uncertain. The velocity should have been measured both by the amplitude of the jet and by the quantity of water discharged. In the next place, we apprehend that much of the effect is produced by the tenacity of the water, which drags along with it the water which would have slowly issued from the syphon had the other end not dipped into the water of the vessel. We know that if the horizontal part of the syphon had been continued far enough, and if no retardation were occasioned by friction, the column of water in the upright Lg would lιave accelerated like any heavy body ; and when the last of it had arrived at the bottom of that leg, the whole in the horizontal part would be moving with the velocity acquired by falling from the surface. The water of the vessel which issues through the surrounding ring very quickly acquires a much greater velocity than what the water descending in the syphon would acquire in the same time, and it drags this last water along with it both by tenacity and friction, and it drags it out till its action is opposed by the want of equilibrium produced in the syphon by the elevation in the one leg and the depression in the other. We imagine that little can be concluded from the experiment with respect to the real non-pressure. Nay, if the sides of the syphon be supposed infinitely thin, so that there w>ould be no curvature of the filaments of the surrounding water at the mouth of the syphon, we do not very distinctly see any source of non-pressure : for we are not altogether satisfied with the proof which Du Buat offers for this measure of the pressure of a stream of fluid gliding along a surface, 
and obstructed by friction or any other cause.
We imagine that passing water in the present experiment would be a little retarded by accelerating continually the water descending in the syphon, and renewed a-top, supposing the upper end open ; because this water would not of itself acquire more than half this velocity. It however drags it out, till it not only resists with a force equal to the weight of the whole vertical column, but even exceeds it by -⅛¾. This it is able to do, because the whole pressure by which the water issues from an orifice has been shown by Daniel Bernoulli to be equal to twice this weight. We therefore consider this beautiful experiment as chiefly valuable, by giving us a measure of the tenacity of the water ; and we wish that it were repeated in a variety of depths, in order to discover what relation the force exerted bears to the depth. It would seem that the tenacity, being a certain determinate thing, the proportion of 100 to 112 would not be constant ; and that the observed ratio woιdd be made up of tw o parts, one of them constant, and the other proportional to the depth under the surface.
But still this experiment is intimately connected with the matter in hand ; and this apparent non-pressure on the
hinder part of a body exposed to a stream, from whatever causes it proceeds, does operate in the action of water on this hinder part, and must be taken into the account.
We must therefore follow Du Buat in his discussions on this subject. A prismatic body, having its prow and poop equal and parallel surfaces, and plunged horizontally into a fluid, will require a force to keep it firm in the direction of its axis precisely equal to the difference between the real pressures exerted on its prow and poop. If the fluid is at rest, this difference will be nothing, because the opposite dead pressures of the fluid will be equal ; but in a stream, there is Superadded to the dead pressure on the prow the active pressure arising from the deflections of the filaments of this fluid.
If the dead pressure on the poop remained in its full intensity by the perfect stagnation of the water behind it, the whole sensible pressure on the body would be the active pressure only on the prow, represented by
m h.
If, on the other hand, we could suppose that the water behind the body moved continually away from it (being renewed laterally) with the velocity of the stream, the dead pressure would be entirely removed from its poop, and the whole sensible pressure, or what must be opposed by some external force, would be
rn h-
⅙
-h.
Neither of these can happen ; and the real state of the case must be between these extremes.
The following experiments were tried. The perforated box with its vertical tube was exposed to the stream, the brass plate being turned down the stream. The velocity w as again 36 inches per second.
The central hole A alone being opened, gave a nonpressure of.......................................13 lines ;
a hole B,
⅙
of an inch from the edge, gave... 15
a hole C, near the surface........................15∙7
a hole D, at the lower angle.....................15∙3
Here it appears that there is a very considerable non
pressure, increasing from the centre to the border. This increase undoubtedly proceeds from the greater lateral velocity with which the water is gliding in from the sides. The water behind was by no means stagnant, although moving off with a much smaller velocity than that of the passing stream, and it was visibly removed from the sides, and gradually licked away at its further extremity.
Another box, having a great number of holes, all open, indicated a medium of non-pressure equal to 13
⅙
lines.
Another of larger dimensions, but having fewer holes, indicated a non-pressure of 12½.
But the most remarkable and the most important phenomena were the following.
The first box was fixed to the side of another box, so that when all was made smooth it made a perfect cube, of which the perforated brass plate made the poop.
The apparatus being now exposed on the stream, with the perforated plate looking down the stream,
The hole    A indicated    a non-pressure..................=7∙2
B...................................................8
C...................................................6
Here was a great diminution of the non-pressures, produced by the distance between the prow and the poop.
This box was then fitted in the same manner, so as to make the poop of a box three feet long. In tllis situation the non-pressures were as follows.
Hole A........................................................1∙5
B........................................................3∙2
The non-pressures were still farther diminished by this increase of length.
The box was then exposed with all the holes open in three different situations.
1st, Single, giving a non-pressure.......................IS-I
2d, Making the poop of a cube...........................5∙3
3d, Making the poop of a box three feet long..........3∙0
