Another large box.
1st, Single...................................................12-2
2d, Poop of a cube........................................ 5
3d, Poop of the long box................................. 3∙2
These are most valuable experiments. They plainly show how important it is to consider the action on the hinder part of-the body. For the whole impulse or resistance, which must be withstood or overcome by the external force, is the sum of the active pressure on the fore part, and of the non-pressure on the hinder part ; and they show that this does not depend solely on the form of the prow and poop, but also, and perhaps chiefly, on the length of the body. We see that the non-pressure on the hinder part was prodigiously diminished (reduced to one fourth) by making the length of the body triple of the breadth. And hence it appears, that merely lengthening a ship, without making any change in the form either of her prow or her poop, will greatly diminish tlle resistance to her motion through the water ; and this increase of length may be made by continuing the form of the midship frame in several timbers along the keel, by which the capacity of the ship, and her power of carrying sail, will be greatly increased, and her other qualities improved, while her speed is augmented.
It is of importance to consider a little the physical cause of tllis change. The motions are extremely complicated, and we must be contented if we can but perceive a tew leading circumstances.
The water is turned aside by the anterior part of the body, and the velocity of the filaments is increased, and they acquire.a divergent motion, by which they also push aside the surrounding water. On each side of the body, therefore, they are moving in a divergent direction, and with an increased velocity. But as they are on all sides pressed by the fluid without them, their motions gradually approach parallelism, and their velocities to an equality with that of the stream. The progressive velocity, or that in the direction of the stream, is checked, at least at first. But since we observe the filaments condensed round the body, and that they are not deflected at right angles to their former direction, it is plain that the real velocity of a filament in its oblique path is augmented. We always observe, that a stone lying in the sand, and exposed to the wash of the sea, is laid bare at the bottom, and the sand is generally washed away to some distance all round. This is owing to the increased velocity of the water which comes into contact with the stone. It takes up more sand than it can keep floating, and it deposits it at a little distance all around, forming a little bank, which surrounds the stone at a small distance. When the filaments of water have passed tlle body, they are pressed by the ambient fluid into the place which it has quitted, and they glide round its stern, and fill up the space behind. The more divergent and the more rapid they are, when about to fall in behind, the more of the circumambient pressure must be employed to turn them into the trough behind the body, and less of it will remain to press them to the body itself. The extreme of this must obtain when the stream is obstructed by a thin plane only. But when there is some distance between the prow and the poop, the divergency of the filaments which had been turned aside by the prow is diminished by the time that they have come abreast of the stern, and should turn in behind it. They are therefore more readily made to converge behind the body, and a more considerable part of the surrounding pressure remains unexpended, and therefore presses the water against the stern ; and it is evident that this advantage must be so much the greater as the body is longer. But the advantage will soon be susceptible of no very considerable increase ; for the lateral, and divergent, and accelerated filaments, will soon become so nearly parallel and equally
rapid with the rest of the stream, that a great increase of length will not make any considerable change in these particulars ; and it must be accompanied with an increase of friction.
These are very obvious reflections. And if we attend minutely to the way in which the almost stagnant fluid behind the body is expended and renewed, we shall see all these effects confirmed and augmented. But as we cannot say anything on this subject that is precise, or that can be made the subject of computation, it is needless to enter into a more minute discussion. The diminution of the nonpressure towards the centre most probably arises from the smaller force which is necessary to be expended in the inflection of the lateral filaments, already inflected in some degree, and having their velocity diminished. But it is a subject highly deserving the attention of mathematicians ; and we presume to invite them to the study of the motions of these lateral filaments passing the body, and pressed into its wake by forces which are susceptible of no difficult investigation. It seems highly probable, that if a prismatic box, with a square stem, were fitted with an addition precisely shaped like the water which would (abstracting tenacity and friction) have been stagnant behind it, the quantity of non-pressure would be the smallest possible. The mathematician would surely discover circumstances which would furnish some maxims of construction for the hinder part as well as for the prow. And as his speculations on tllis last have not been wholly fruitless, we may expect advantages from his attention to this part, so much neglected.
In the mean time, let us attend to the deductions which Du Buat has made from his few' experiments.
When the velocity is three feet per second, requiring the productive height 2l∙5 lines, the height corresponding to the non-pressure on the poop of a thin plane is 14>∙4Ι lines' (taking in several circumstances of correction, which we have not mentioned), that of a foot cube is 5∙83, and that ofa prism of triple length is 3∙31.
Let
q
express the variable ratio of these heights to the height producing the velocity, so that
qh
may express the non-pressure in every case ; we have,
For a thin plane.....................................7 = 0∙67
a cube.................................................0∙27l
a prism = 3 cubes...................................0∙153
It is evident that the value of
q
has a dependence on the proportion of the length, and the transverse section of the body. A series of experiments on prismatic bodies showed Du Buat that the deviation of the filaments was similar in similar bodies, and that this obtained even in dissimilar prisms, when the lengths were as the square roots of the transverse sections. Although therefore the experiments were not sufficiently numerous for deducing the precise law, it seemed not impossible to derive from them a very useful approximation. By a dexterous comparison he found, that if
l
expresses the length of the prism, and s the area of the transverse section, the non-pressure will be expressed pretty accurately by the formula i = log. ^1∙4∙2 +    But
this formula is applicable only to prismatic bodies.
Hence arises an important remark, that when the height corresponding to the non-pressure is greater than
s∕s,
and the body is little immersed in the fluid, there will be a void behind it. Thus a surface of a square inch, just immersed in a current of three feet per second, will have a void behind it. A foot square will be in a similar condition when the velocity is twelve feet.
We must be careful to distinguish this non-pressure from the other causes of resistance, which are always necessarily combined with it. It is superadditive to the active impression on the prow, to the statical pressure of the accumula-
