tical sciences are apt to entertain doubts or false notions connected with this circumstance, which we shall attempt to remove.
If a fluid were perfectly incompressible, and were contained in a vessel incapable of extension, it is impossible that any void could be formed behind the body ; and in tllis case it is not very easy to see how motion could be performed in it. A sphere moved in such a medium could not advance the smallest distance, unless
some
particles of the fluid, in filling up the space left by it, moved with a velocity next to infinite. Some degree of compressibility, however small, seems necessary. If this be insensible, it may be rigidly demonstrated, that an external force of compression will make no
sensible
change in the internal motions, or in the resistances. This indeed is not obvious, but is an immediate consequence of the
quaquaversum 
pressure of fluids. As much as the pressure is augmented by the external compressions in one side of a body, so much is it augmented on the other side ; and the same must be said of every particle. Nothing more is necessary for securing the same motions by the same partial and internal forces ; and this is fully verified by experiment. Water remains equally fluid under any compressions. In some of Sir Isaac Newton’s experiments, balls of four inches diameter were made so light as to preponderate in water only three grains. These balls descended in the same manner as they would have descended in a fluid where the resistance was equal in every part ; yet, when they were near the bottom of a vessel nine feet deep, the compression round them was at least 2400 times the moving force ; whereas, when near the top of the vessel, it was not above 50 or CO times.
But in a fluid sensibly compressible, or which is not confined, a void may be left behind the body. Its motion may be so swift that the surrounding pressure may not suffice for filling up the deserted space ; and, in this case, a statical pressure will be added to the resistance. This may be the case in a vessel or pond of water having an open surface exposed to the finite or limited pressure of the atmosphere. The question now is, whether the resistance will be increased by an increase of external pressure ? Supposing a sphere moving near the surface of water, and another moving equally fast at four times the depth. If the motion be so swift that a void is formed in both cases, there is no doubt but that the sphere which moves at the greatest depth is most resisted by the pressure of the water. If there is no void in either case, then, because the quadruple depth would cause the water to flow in with only a double velocity, it would seem that the resistance would be greater ; and indeed the water flowing in laterally with a double velocity produces a quadruple non-pressure. But, on the other hand, the pressure at a small depth may be insufficient for preventing a void, while that below effectually prevents it ; and tllis was observed in some experiments of Borda. The effect, therefore, of greater immersion, or of greater compression, in an elastic fluid, does not follow a precise ratio of the pressure, but depends partly on absolute quantities. It cannot therefore be stated by any very simple formula what increase or diminution of resistance wall result from a greater depth ; and it is chiefly on this account that experiments made with models of ships and mills are not conclusive with respect to the performance of a large machine of the same proportions, without corrections sometimes pretty intricate. We assert, however, with great confidence, that this is of all methods the most exact, and infinitely more certain than anything that can be deduced from the most elaborate calculation from theory. If
the resistances at all depths be equal, the proportionality of the total resistance to the body is exact, and perfectly conformable to observation. It is only in great velocities where the depth has any material influence, and the influence is not near so considerable as we should, at first sight, suppose ; for, in estimating the effect of immersion, which has a relation to the difference of pressure, we must always take in the pressure of the atmosphere ; and thus the pressure at thirty-three feet deep is not thirty-three times the pressure at one foot deep, but only double, or twice as great. The atmospheric pressure is omitted only when the resisted plane is at the very surface.    (b.
B.
b.)
For an account of the experiments of Coulomb, Hutton, and Vince, the reader is referred to Hydrodynamics, chapter iii. (vol. xii. p. 76). We may also refer to a very extensive and valuable series of experiments made in the years 1796-1798, by the late Colonel Beaufoy, in the Greenland Docks at Deptford, the details of which have been recently published in a large and sumptuous quarto volume,@@1 by his son, Henry Beaufoy, Esq., and munificently distributed among scientific institutions and individuals. The following are the principal results :—
1.    The power of the velocity to which the resistance is proportional is a little above the duplicate ratio or square of the velocity when the velocity is two miles per hour ; but the ratio gradually decreases as the velocity increases, and becomes a little less than the duplicate ratio at the velocity of eight miles per hour.
2.    The power of the velocity of the
plus
pressure, or pressure on the head end of the body, is a little above the duplicate ratio.
3.    The power of the velocity of the
minus
pressure, or pressure on the stern end, is in general less than the duplicate ratio, and diminishes as the velocity increases.
4.    A cube is less resisted than a square iron plate equal in dimensions with the side of the cube ; and a cylinder less than a round plane of which the area is equal to the end of the cylinder.
5.    The resistance of a cylinder one foot in length, and the area of the section = 1 square foot, with a semi-globe at each end, when moving with a velocity of eight miles per hour, was 46-29 lbs. avoirdupois ; and the resistance of a globe of the same radius, moving at the same velocity, was 64- 87 ; whence the resistance on the globe was diminished by the interposition of the cylinder, nearly in the ratio of 7 to 5.
6.    As a general result, it was found that bodies whose head ends are formed of curve surfaces were less resisted than bodies of the same dimensions formed of plane surfaces.
7.    The resistance is a minimum when the greatest breadth of the body is at the distance of about two fifths of the length from tlle head end.
8.    Similar bodies appear to be more resisted immediately under the surface than at the depth of six feet.
In the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (vol. xiv. part i.), there is a paper by Mr Russel, containing an account of a series of experiments on the resistances of canal boats, made by him in the years 1834 and 1835, which bring to light some phenomena not previously observed, relative to the resistances on bodies partly immersed and moving in narrow channels, and are important on account of their practical bearing on canal navigation. Thc principal phenomena developed by the experiments were the following :—1
st
, That the resistance does not follow the ratio of the squares of the velocities, excepting when the velocity is small, and the depth of the fluid considerable ;
2d,
that
1
@@@
Nautical and Hydraulic Experiments, Withnumerous Scientific Miscellanies;
by Colonel Mark Beaufoy, F. B. S. &c. In three volumes, with plates. Vol. i. London ; printed at the private press of Henry Beaufoy, F. R. S., South Lambeth, Surrey, 1834. The second and third volumes have not yet appeared.
