@@@1 Mr Luccock mentions some circumstances very interesting in a geological point of view ; and as his remarks convey a correct idea of the nature of the coast in this quarter, we shall quote them. He informs us that by a careful examination of the coast, it will convincingly appear that a very considerable portion of it has been formed by sand driven up by the ocean. “ The two lakes which form the chief features of this part of tbe country have probably been created by the rivers which flow into them repelling the sand accumulated at their mouths by the occasional impetuosity cf their currents, until the bar was formed in the dead water produced bv the stream and the ocean. Here the hank would gradually rise above the high-water mark, and compel the river to bend its course ; and by constant acquisition would grow broader and longer, and at length form an estuary within it.” In this manner he thinks the Jacuhy. Camapuam, and other rivers, were compelled by accumulation of sand to take a southern course, and thus produced the great lake. In confirmation of this view, he states that the bar ofthe Itio Grande is still proceeding southward.
on thc coast. There are other large lakes running parallel with the shore, but these are the most important.
On the northern bank of the Jacuhy, twenty-five miles from its mouth, stands the town of Portalegre, the capital of tile country. It is situated on a declivity, and commands a fine view of the river and the surrounding country. The houses are well built, the streets well laid out, and altogether it is a very neat and flourishing place. The government-house and public offices are placed on a hill. It has several churches, schools, what appear to be the rudiments of a university, a dock-yard, and other public establishments and institutions. In 1812 Mr Luccock thus spoke of it : “ As a capital, its influence is wide ; as a seat of commerce, it commands a large tract of country, and many navigable rivers.” It has subsequently made very great advancement. Englishmen have long been established here ; and not only commerce, but agriculture, has been much benefited by their exertions. One great bar to improvement is, that much of the interior is Stiil in the hands ef the native tribes, whose animosity to white people is of the bitterest description. Portalegre contains above 12,000 inhabitants.
Being situated at the head of the great lake, it has constant intercourse with St Pedro do Sul, which lies at the foot of it. Up to the year 1763 this town was the capital of the province, and was usually called Rio Grande, from its harbour, which forms the entrance to the Lagoa dos Patos, and is, with the same impropriety as the bay of Rio de Janeiro, termed a river. The town was begun a league to the south-west of where it now stands, in the situation called Estreito, near the head of the bay or harbour. It stood on a bank about twenty feet in height, and was surrounded with a parapet of sods, as a barrier against the encroaching sands.@@1 Yet by a slow but sure progress they appear to have gained ground, so as almost to have overwhelmed the town, and occasioned its removal to the present site. It is now situated on a level plain, a little above high-water mark ; but, like its predecessor, it suffers much from the accumulation of sand. Its public buildings comprise a cathedral, the plainness of which externally and internally does not prevent it from being a handsome edifice. It has several public buildings, and is defended by a fort. Its commercial importance appears to be considerable. Many towns along the coast mainly depend upon this part of the continent for their supply of food. Immense quantities of wheat, hides, tallow’, dried beef, cheese, and other articles are shipped from this port, and commerce is rapidly increasing. We have no means of ascertaining the amount of its population ; but it is certainly not less than that of the capital, for it was the great mart of Southern Brazil while the country formed an integrant part of the empire. Near this town is the fertile island of Marinheiros, which contains some of the highest land and the best cultivated spots in the neighbourhood.
This country, we have said, is chiefly distinguished for cattle-breeding. The proprietors of land are divided into two classess, viz. fazendeiros or farmers, and lavradores or husbandmen. The latter, who breed only what is necessary for their own consumption, possess generally about two square leagues of land ; the former will farm from eight to ten leagues, but some of these fazendas are reported to extend to a hundred square leagues, or nearly 600,000
acres. To each three square leagues are allotted four or five thousand head of cattle, six men, and a hundred horses. The proportion of horses will appear a very large one ; but it is to be kept in view that, in this pastoral country, they cost nothing in keeping, and even short journeys of half a mile are made on Eorseback. About one hundred cows are allowed for the supply of milk, butter, cheese, and veal, to a farm of the average size. Hogs, although abundant, are but little valued : sheep might be multiplied to any extent, in consequence of their producing generally two lambs at a birth, but do not appear to attract much attention. Droves of horses and mules are bred to a great extent ; the latter are, however, found to be much more profitable than the former, a mule being double the value of a horse. Horses are trained for tlle exercises of the field, in a manner peculiarly well adapted to fortify them against fear. They are much used in capturing cattle, which, as is the universal custom in South America, is effected by the lasso. Cattle form the grand staple of Rio Grande, and the beef, hides, ar.d tallow which they yield are the chief articles of export. An extensive tract, famous for its fine cattle, is comprehended under the name of Charqueados, derived from the “ charqued” beef, which is prepared in this district tor exportation. When the cattle are killed and skinned, the flesh is taken off from the sides in one broad piece, something like a flitch of bacon ; it is then slightly sprinkled with salt, and dried in the sun. In that state it forms the common food of the peasantry. Some idea of the immense quantity thus prepared may be formed from the fact, that in one year a single individual slaughtered 54,000 head of cattle, and charqued the flesh.
The history of this portion of South America presents little but a gloomy picture of Spanish aggression and Portuguese retaliation. Lying on the confines of Brazil, where the latter bordered on the possessions of Spain, it was convenient for hostile inroad on the part of the latter power ;' and it was unfortunate for these colonies that the animosities of the mother countries in Europe were communicated across the Atlantic, and perpetually embroiled their settlements, so that the bloody and ever-losing game cf war played between the powers was maintained in both hemispheres at once. Into details of mutual hostilities we shall not enter ; it is sufficient to state that this country was finally incorporated with the empire cf Brasil, and so continued, till its recent assertion of independence. The population of Rio Grande do Sul is estimated at 160,000.    (r. r. r.)
RIO DE JANEIRO, an important province of Brazil, is bounded on the north by Espiritu Santo, from which it is separated by the river Capabuan, and by Minas Geraes, from wilich it is divided by the rivers Preto and Paraiba, and in part by the Serra da Manliqueira ; on the west it borders on San Paulo ; and the Atlantic Ocean washes it on the south ar.d east. It embraces half of the old capitania of St Vincente, together with a part of territory which formerly belonged to Espiritu Santo. Its length from east to west is estimated at sixty leagues ; and its medium breadth is about twenty-three leagues. This province is distinguished for its romantic beauty and great fertility, notwithstanding its being very mountainous. From south-west to north-east runs the Serra dos Orgoas, or Organ Mountains and this chain divides it into two nearly equal portions : the northern half is called Seιτa Accina, or Mountains Above ;
