In treating of the construction and mode of working railways, we shall confine ourselves principally to those which are intended for the transit of passengers and goods, and which are now opening so vast a field for the improvement of the human race ; an improvement, in fact, entering into all the relations between man and man, and which no one, be he ever so sanguine, can venture to fix a limit to.
From the middle of the seventeenth century various contrivances have been in use for decreasing friction on roads, particularly near the collieries in the north, such as laying down tracks of wood and stone for the wheels of waggons; it having been found that the much greater quantity of work performed by horses on these tracks, or, in other words, the less number of horses required to do a given portion of labour, more than repaid the expenses attendant on forming the tracks. These, in general, gave way to the flat or tram rail, made of iron ; but the improvements were very slow, and at last were only applicable to certain circumscribed localities and materials for carriage.
Possessing little general interest, and chiefly benefiting individuals, the attention they attracted was principally confined to the parties immediately connected with them. But how different is the prospect now before us, since we have seen the magnificent creations of George Stephenson ? Pack-horses are still the only mode of transit for traffic in many parts of the world ; and within seventy years this was the general mode of conveyance for the carrying trade to Yorkshire and Lancashire from the west of England and Birmingham. In the year 1830, when the London and Birmingham railway was projected, the expense of constructing it was stated at L.6000 per mile with one line of rails, which were to be worked by horses, and warranted to go eight miles an hour ; now the public are complaining of going
only
twenty miles an hour, and we have a right to expect that, at no very distant period, this velocity will at least be doubled ; in fact, at the rate improvements have been advancingfor the last few years, we know not where to place a limit of increase in speed.
It is of these splendid creations that we havehere to speak. We shall shew the method of conducting a modern railway, from itsearliest commencement, through all its various stages in each department, both in and out of doors, up to the period of lts final completion ; and shall end by explaining the method of setting it in full operation, pointing out, in each division of the labour, those modes of proceeding which will most conduce to a satisfactory result, and marking those things which practice has shewn should be avoided ; collecting the contrivances and appliances which have been found useful, from whatever source they may be derived, and setting a beacon upon shipwrecks, that they may become other men’s landmarks.
Wllen a railway is proposed betw een any two places, the public want to know how to distinguish between a bubble speculation, got up by a few interested individuals, a crudely-formed and hastily-adopted, but really good project, and a line got up with care and attention through all its parts, shewing it to be the result of patient research and of matured judgment ; and according as inquirers find the following directions more or less attended to, they may place confidence in the scheme which is laid before them.
These undertakings generally begin with a few individuals interested in the line of railway proposed, when the project is honestly intended ; but the great mass of original proprietors are men of a speculative and adventurous turn
of mind, who enter into these concerns for the mere purpose of making money’. Ifthe thing succeeds, and the shares rise to a large premium, as they often do, the original holders realize the profits at once, by selling out, and then apply their surplus capital in other projects, with the same hope of gain. These people, by going out, make way for another class of proprietors, namely, those who look to their shares as a permanent investment, and hope to make by them a greater annual receipt than they can get in the public funds, or by any other means.
In the earlier stages the directors are generally self-elected. They should be men of local interest, rather than the lions who are too often found in these situations ; men who can influence members of Parliament in either house, conciliate landholders, get off the shares, &c., and, above all, they should be of regτdar and businesslike habits. After a few meetings, they will find out what are their respective qualifications, and can allot themselves into sub-committees accordingly ; some to look after the traffic, others the surveying, others tlle share list, others to attend to the canvassing along the line, &c. Almost their first duty will be to choose the secretary, the engineer, the solicitor, and the banker.
On the appointment of the first three much of the future success of the company will depend. The secretary should be a man of firmness and nerve, with conciliatory and gentlemanly manners ; of a strong habit of body, able to rough it out in travelling, and possessing a stock of scientific and mechanical knowledge. If he is a draughtsman so much the better, and he should have been habituated to command large bodies of men, and be able to make a public speech at a short notice. With these qualifications, habits of order, and plain common sense, he will be a most valuable man.
The engineer must be judged of by the works he has executed, either by himself or under the direction of a superior; the first, of course, being the most conclusive, but the second by no means to be neglected. Skill and genius may Oftenbeveryprominentin subordinate situations. Ofcourse, all other things being equal, one who has been employed on railways should be preferred to one who has not. The solicitor should, if possible, have been connected with a railway bill before, and should have not only ability, but zeal. The advantage of having one who bad been connected with a previous undertaking is obvious, and if he has had much experience in parliamentary business, so much the better; a local acquaintance amongst the landowners and residents along the line is also of much use.
Wesupposethat, prior to advancing even thus far, the promoters of the undertaking have travelled between the termini of the intended railroad, and have ascertained that there are no engineering difficulties of a marked character ; and from our present stage, if the share list be found to fill, we have next to ascertain the nature and quantity of the traffic, first, as to whether it will pay for a railroad at all, and secondly, for what kind of a railroad. These questions should be met openly and honestly, or the consequences will be most disastrous.
The proper way to gain a correct knowledge of the traffic along any given line of country is, first of all, to station a man by day and another by night for two or three weeks, to count all vehicles passing a given number of spots along the intended line, (these spots should be near the principal towns), leaving out the largest terminus, as, for instance, London, and keeping the men on that side of all the respec-
