the scorching sun of India, and the biting frosts of Iceland, were equally braved and disregarded. But, with all this apparent superiority to ordinary infirmities, he fell a victim to consumption, brought on, it is believed, by those habits of intense application, and abstinence from proper nutriment, to which we have already alluded ; and he died at that period of life (forty-eight) when the faculties of the human mind have little more than attained their maturity, leaving behind him a name that will not soon be forgotten.
The acquirements of Professor Rask were multifarious and extraordinary, and such as justly entitled him to our respect and admiration. There never perhaps existed any scholar whose study of language had been directed to a wider circle, and assuredly none who had made the structure of language so much an object of attention. He was the great comparative anatomist of philology; not building up theories out of scattered fragments, collected as it were by accident, but drawing his conclusions from the most profound and elaborate research, and, by comparison, comprehension, and exhaustion, initiating us into those curious inquiries which have for the most part been perfunctorily handled by the majority of critics. Not that Rask’s writings have enabled the world to form an accurate estimate of his extraordinary learning. To have written the best Icelandic, and the best Anglo-Saxon Grammar ; to have tracked, through Hebrew or Kieroglyphical records, the chronology of the Egyptian kings ; to have edited Eddas or Sagas, and carried off prizes for essays on this or the other limited inquiry ; all these constituted little compared to what this extraordinary man was capable of effecting, had it pleased God to prolong his life. He was one of the few men qualified to write on philology, with a sufficient knowledge of the subject in all its bearings ; who had seen with his own eyes, and heard with his own ears, the tribes and the tongues which overspread the surface of the globe ; who, if he had not girdled the whale earth, had at least explored those tracts in which so many nations were cradled ; and who, travelling throughout the East in quest of philological knowledge, carried with him a mind so well trained, and exercised, and cultivated, that nothing could be wasted upon it. Of this we have ample evidence furnished to us at every stage in his protracted expedition. His progress was like that of Fame in Virgil, continually gaining fresh accessions of knowledge, and increasing in intellectual stature, but, unlike the impersonation of the poet, never raising aloft his head so as to plunge it into the region of the clouds. His primary object was the collection of sufficient materials to serve as the basis of a most enlarged induction ; his next was to employ analysis or resolution in decomposing, separating, and classifying these materials, so as to render them disposable for the purposes of general investigation ; and his last, by synthetical reasoning, to lay a solid foundation for the science of philology, and to deduce those general laws of connection, resemblance, or filiation, which may be discovered in every branch of the great family of languages. He lived to accomplish the first, and he had even entered upon his analytical labours, whcn exhausted nature sunk under the toil, and the grave swallowed up the fruits of all his researches. Rask was no theorist ; and, if his life had happily been prolonged, he would have finally settled the question, which has long been agitated, viz. whether induction be really applicable as an instrument of investigation and discovery in the science of philology, (a.)
RASTADT, a city of the grand duchy of Baden, in Germany, the capital of a bailiwick of its own name. It is situated on tlle river Murg, just before that stream joins the Khine. There is a fine palace of the prince, now used as a college or gymnasium, a nunnery, an hospital, 568 houses, and 4400 inhabitants. Peace was made here in 1715 ; and in 1797 and 1798 a congress was held to negotiate a peace between the German empire and France, but it came to no pacific termination. It has some few small manufactures
of cloth, steel wares, hosiery, and linen goods. Long.
8. 3. 5.
E. Lat. 48. 50. 5. N.
RASTALL, John, a printer and miscellaneous writer, was born in London, probably about the end of the fifteenth century, and educated at Oxford. Returning from the university, he settled in the metropolis, and commenced printer, “ then esteemed,” says Wood, “ a profession fit for any scholar or ingenious man.” He married the sister of Sir Thomas More, with whom, we are told, he was very intimate, and whose writings he strenuously defended. From the title-page of one of his books, he appears to have lived in Cheapside, at the sign of the Mermaid. He died in the year 1536 ; and left two sons, William and John ; the first of whom became a judge in Queen Mary’s reign, and the other a justice of peace. This John Rastall, the subject of the present article, was a zealous Papist ; but Bale says that he changed his religion before his death. He wrote, 1.
Natura naturota.
This Pits calls a copious and ingenious comedy, describing Europe, Asia, and Africa ; with cuts. What sort of a comedy this was, it is not easy to conceive. Probably it is a cosmographical description, written in dialogue, and therefore styled a
comedy.
2. The Pas-tyme of the People ; the cronycles of diverse realmys, and most especially of the realm of England, brevely compiled and emprinted in Cheapesyde, at the sign of the mearmaid, next Pollysgate,
cum privilegio,
folio. 3.
Ecclesia Johan-nis RastoH,
1542, was one of the prohibited books in the reign of Henry VIII. 4.
Leyum Anylicanarum vocabula explicata,
French and Latin, London, 1567, 8vo ; and some other works.
RASTRICK, a township of the parish of Halifax, in the west riding of Yorkshire and wapentake of Morley, 192 miles from London. It has risen into importance during the last thirty years, from the great extension of its woollen trade. The population amounted in 1801 to 2053, in 1811 to 2442, in 1821 to 2796, and in 1831 to 3021.
RAT. See Mammalia.
R at Island,
the small detached part of the island of Lundy, off the north coast of Devon.
RATAFIA, a fine spirituous liquor, prepared from the kernels and other parts of several kinds of fruits, particularly cherries and apricots. Ratafia of cherries is prepared by bruising the cherries, and putting them into a vessel wherein brandy has long been kept ; then adding to them the kernels of cherries, with strawberries, sugar, cinnamon, white pepper, nutmeg, cloves, and to twenty pounds of cherries ten quarts of brandy. The vessel is left open ten or twelve days, and then stopped close for two months before it be tapped. Ratafia of apricots is prepared in two ways, namely, either by boiling the apricots in white wine, adding to the liquor an equal quantity of brandy, with sugar, cinnamon, mace, and the kernels of apricots, infusing the whole for eight or ten days, then straining the liquor, and putting it up for use ; or by infusing the apricots, cut in pieces, in brandy, for a day or two, passing it through a straining bag, and then putting in the usual ingredients.
RATCH, or Rash, in clock-work, a sort of wheel having twelve fangs, which serve to lift up the detents every hour, and make the clock strike.
RATCHETS, in a watch, are the small teeth at the bottom of the fusee or barrel, which stops it in winding up.
RATES, in the navy, mean the orders or classes into which the ships of war are divided, according to their force and magnitude.
Ships of the first rate mount a hundred guns, having forty-two pounders on the lower deck, twenty-four pounders on the middle deck, twelve-pounders on the upper deck, and six-pounders on the quarter-deck and forecastle. They are manned with 850 men, including officers, seamen, marines, and servants.
Ships of the second rate carry ninety guns upon three
