also resembling the noise made by that insect.
H. Iinc-toria,
Cuv.
R. Iinctoria,
Lin. or
Dying Hyla,
has a singular property assigned it, apparently on good authority. It is said that by its means the American Indians partially change the plumage of their parrots from green to red. With this object in view, they pluck out the green feathers when the bird is young, and rub the wounded skin with the blood of the hyla, after which the feathers spring up of a fine red or yellow colour. It inhabits Surinam and Guiana, frequenting the woods nearly the whole year, concealing itself in clefts of trees, and under the bark in cold nights, and resorting to water only for the purpose of reproduction. Cuvier has enumerated, as among the largest and most beautiful, the
H. bicοlor
of Daudin and Spix ; it is of a celestial blue colour above, and of a rosy tint below. He has catalogued several additional species; and Mr Gray’s list is very extensive, including some species from New Holland.
Genus Bufo. The generic characters of this group, which includes the toads, are, a body thick, short, clumsy, and generally covered with warts and pimples, with a glandular pad behind the ears, from all of which distils a milky fetid humour ; there are usually no teeth ; the hind feet are frequently short, and hence the species rather crawl than leap ; and they are generally found at a considerable distance from water. By Linnæus they were incorporated in the same genus with the frogs, and so close is their resemblance, that that arrangement is still sometimes followed. Toads have in all times and places been regarded as disgusting animals, and sometimes even as objects of horror. They are usually believed to be venomous, and are consequently subjected to proscription and extermination. It will be found, however, on examination, as has been observed by a noted naturalist, that these animals are comparatively harmless, that the study of their organization involves much interest, and that their history presents a crowd of facts equally curious and important. A slight sketch of the structure and habits of these despised animals having already appeared in our general remarks on the order, we shall here allude only to a few distinguishing traits.
The European toads are stated to have only eight vertebræ, and some as few as seven. Though generally described as wanting teeth, yet some species have them on the gums, large and curved. The tongue is not forked, as in most of the frogs ; nor do they possess the gular pouches, which give to the frogs their peculiarly resounding voices. The glandular cushion-like body behind the ears, sometimes stated as the most distinct mark of the genus, is considered by Schneider as nothing· else than the parotid gland, well known in man as the seat of that disease called the mumps,— with what degree of accuracy we are not prepared to say. The toads, in general, are heavy sluggish animals in comparison with frogs, and sometimes even crawl with difficulty.
The cuticular excretion usually regarded as so offensive is possessed by frogs as well as toads ; but is much more abundant in the latter. It is alleged that the toad can at will increase the secretion of this viscous humour, and cause it to distil like dew from all its pores. The most important use, as previously suggested, is probably connected with respiration ; the one usually assigned is, that it defends the animal from the heat of the sun and the dryness of the air. This abundant perspiration must, of course, maintain the species at a low temperature ; and Adanson states the fact to be so well known, that the negroes in traversing the burning sands of Senegal are in the habit of applying a live creature of this kind to the forehead for the purpose of cooling it. These reptiles have the power of emitting another secretion, which is regarded as a weapon of defence and offence. It is discharged from the lower gut, is shot forth in a small stream, and often occasions apprehensions from its supposed venomous nature. When toads are surprised and alarmed, instead of seeking safety in flight, tney make a dead halt, swell out their body, making it hard and elastic, and distil this humour from its surface in augmented quantities. They also make efforts to bite, without, however, inflicting any injury. The direct application of the fluids proceeding from the common toad to the human skin is innocuous, and the idea that it confers a poisonous quality upon vegetables, fruits, and mushrooms, is entirely groundless.
The process of spawning in the toad is carried on much in the same way as in the frog. In the latter the ova appear imbedded in a glary continuous mass, which has been compared to a cord or chaplet : in the toad two of these cords appear together, the united length of which would extend to about twenty feet. Ten or twelve days after deposition, the eggs acquire double their volume ; the tadpoles issue forth about the twentieth day, and acquire their gills two or three days after.
Though the taste is not likely to become prevalent, there is no doubt that toads have been made familiar pets. Mr Pennant gives a curious account of one having lived in a kind of domestic state for the space of more than forty years, and of having been, in a great degree, reclaimed from its natural shyness and desire of concealment. On the approach of its master, and on the lighting of the candles at night, it left its retreat, and came to demand its regular evening meal. It grew to a very large size, and attracted many curious visitors. It was often brought to table, and fed upon various insects, which it seized with avidity, without being embarrassed by the presence of company. Its favourite retreat was beneath the steps of the house-door ; and it had all the appearance of surviving many additional years, when it was attacked and destroyed by a raven.
But the most curious trait in the history of the toad, is its alleged power of being encased and buried for a long period of time without food or respiration, and of reviving again when reintroduced to light and air. Not that the toad is singular among the Batrachia for this faculty, for its congeners are likewise celcbrated on account of it. Nor would it appear to be confined to this order, for similar stories are told of serpents, and even of fish, insects, &c. The attention of the French academy was directed to this subject about the year 1771, from its having been stated, that upon pulling down a wall of a mansion belonging to the Duke of Orleans, and which was forty years old, a toad which proved to be alive, was found in it, its hind feet being actually entrapt and imbedded in the mortar. Stimulated by the interest which this story excited, M. Herri-saut, in presence of the academy, enclosed three toads in as many boxes, surrounding them with a thick coating of plaster, and deposited them in an apartment of the academy. Here they were left untouched for eighteen months, when, on being examined, two of them were found alive, and the third dead. The former were re-enclosed, and on a second examination some months after, were found dead. The animals were completely impacted and imbedded, without leaving any space for surrounding air. Notwithstanding the apparently conclusive nature of these experiments, the possibility of such long endurance was still denied by many,— the more so, as the fact was as inexplicable as extraordinary. Dr Edwards, however, performed somewhat similar experiments in Paris in the year 1817, by shutting up toads effectively in plaster, when he found that they lived for a long period ; and additional light was thrown upon the subject by that observer discovering, that when tlle plaster was made impervious to air, as by sinking the whole mass in watcr, the toads speedily perished. From this it follows, that owing to the porosity of the plaster, a portion of air still penetrates to the imprisoned toad, sufficient to maintain its vital functions in that low state in which we often see these reptiles during hybernation, or when completely frozen. The importance, under these circumstances, of tlle cuticular re-
