last century, a Hamburg merchant greatly prided himself on the possession of a femous dragon, which he valued at 10,000 florins. It was however discovered by the penetrating eye of the then youthful Linnæus to be a gross deception, formed by a combination of the skins of snakes, the teeth of weasels, and other absurd and heterogeneous elements, “ non Natune sed artis opus eximium.” It is said that the great Swedish naturalist was obliged to flee the city to avoid the wrath of the enraged proprietor. A similar fraud seems to have been practised in our own country towards the close of the seventeenth century, and is thus related by Dr Grainger, from a note of Dr Zachary Grey, in his edition of Hudibras. “ Mr Smith of Bedford observes to me, on the word
dragon,
as follows : Mr Jacob Robart, botany professor@@1 of Oxford, did, about forty years ago, find a dead rat in the Physic Garden, which he made to resemble the common picture of dragons, by altering its head and tail, and thrusting in taper sticks, which distended the skin on each side, till it mimicked wings. He let it dry as hard as possible. The learned immediately pronounced it a dragon ; and one of them sent an accurate description of it to Dr Magliabechi, librarian to the Grand Duke of Tuscany ; several copies of verses were wrote on so rare a subject ; but at last Mr Robart owned the cheat ; however, it was looked upon as a masterpiece of art, and as such deposited in the museum, or anatomy school, where I saw it some years after.”
We need hardly here observe, that the actual dragons, or
Dracones
of naturalists, are harmless animals, of small size though extraordinary forms, which inhabit chiefly the insular forests of the Indian Ocean. (See Plate CCCCXXXI. fig. 6.) In these umbrageous places they pursue their insect prey, descending but rarely to the ground, on which they walk with difficulty. According to Van Ernest, a Dutch naturalist, they couple among the branches, and the female deposits her eggs in hollow trees, under favour of a south exposure. We are doubtful regarding their amphibious propensities, as reported by M. Palisot de Beauvois, who remarked one in the
kingdom of Benin,
which he was unable to procure, because it was swimming in the water. Now Baron Cuvier states that “ les espèces connues viennent toutes
des Indes Orientalesy
Three distinct species of Draco are described by M. Daudin, who was the first to discriminate their characters. 
D. Iineatus (υolaιιs,
Linn.) has the body varied above with blue and gray, the wings brown, with longitudinal stripes of white.
D. viridis
is green, the wings gray, with brown bands. This is the species described by Seba under the name of
winged dragon of America,
and afterwards figured by that author as the
flying dragon of Africa,
in neither of which countries is it ever found. It is said by Bontius to be not uncommon in Java, where it will shoot from tree to tree for a distance of thirty yards, producing a perceptible noise by the vibration of its wings. With a view to render itself specifically lighter, it inflates its yellowish goitres when it flies.
D.fuscus
is brown above, paler beneath ; the wings likewise brown. Eight species are now known to naturalists.
The genus Sitana, Cuv., possesses the teeth of the preceding ; the limbs and body are covered with scales imbricated and keeled, the thighs are without pores, but the false ribs are not expanded. The species are distinguished by an enormous dewlap, which extends as far as the middle of the abdomen, and is more than twice the height of the body. We know not that there is any other described than the Pondicherry species
(Sit. Ponticeriand),
a small reptile of a fawn-colour, with a range of large rhomboidal spots along the back. See Plate CCCCXXXI. fig. 7.
Sect.
2,—
Teeth on the Palate.
Genus Iguana, Cuv.
Iguanas properly so called.
These have the body and tail covered with small imbricated scales A row of spines or raised scales, compressed and pointed, prevails along the back ; and beneath the throat there is a compressed and pendant dewlap, or gular pouch, of which the margin is supported by a cartilaginous production of the hyoid bone. The thighs bear a line of tubercular pores like those of lizards, and the head is covered with plates. Each jaw supports a range of compressed triangular ⅛eth with dentated cutting edges, and there are moreover two small rows of teeth on the posterior margin of the palate.
The common iguana
(I. tυberculatα,
Laur.,
Lae. iguana,
Linn.) is naturally of a greenish-yellow colour above, mottled with pure green, the tail ringed with brown ; the under parts of a paler hue. The scales of the dorsal crest are large and spinous, and there is a conspicuous rounded plate beneath the tympanum, at the angle of the jaws. The sides of the neck bear some pyramidal scales mingled with the others, and the anterior edge of the dewlap is dentated like the back. This species measures from four to five feet in length, and is extensively spread over many of the warmer countries of America, where it is held in high esteem as an article of diet, though by many regarded as by no means healthful. It dwells chiefly among trees, feeding on fruits, grain, and leaves, and is sometimes seen to enter the water. The female deposits her eggs in the sand. They equal in size those of a pigeon, have scarcely any albumen, and afford excellent eating. The common method of catching this reptile is by casting a noose over its head, and then drawing it from its position. It seldom makes an effort to escape, but stands staring at its antagonist, at the same time inflating its throat in a most extraordinary manner.
“ Guanas,” says Catesby, “ are of various sizes, from two to five feet in length ; their mouths are furnished with exceeding small teeth, but their jaws armed with a long beak, with which they bite with great strength ; they inhabit warm countries only, and are rarely to be met with anywhere north or south of the tropics. Many of the Bahama Islands abound with them, where they nestle in hollow rocks and trees ; their eggs have not a hard shell, like those Ofalligators, but a skin only, like those of a turtle, and are esteemed a good food. They lay a great number of eggs at a time in the earth, which are there hatched by the sun’s heat. These guanas are a great part of the subsistence of the inhabitants of the Ballama Islands, for which purpose they visit many of the remote
kαyes
and islands in their sloops to catch them, which they do by dogs trained up for that purpose, which are so dexterous as not often to kill them, which, if they do, they serve only for present spending ; if otherwise, they sew up their mouths to prevent their biting, and put them into the hold of their sloop till they have catched a sufficient number, which they either carry alive for sale to Carolina, or salt and barrel up for the use of their families at home. These guanas feed wholly on vegetables and fruit, particularly on a kind of fungus growing at the roots of trees, and on the fruits of the different kinds of
annonas. 
Their flesh is easy of digestion, delicate, and well tasted ; they are sometimes roasted ; but the more common way is to boil them, taking out the leaves of fat, which are melted and clarified, and put into a calabash or dish, into which they dip the flesh of the guana as they eat it. It is remarkable that this fat, which adheres to the inside of the abdomen, imbibes the colour of the fruit the animal cats last, which I have frequently seen tinged of a pale red, yellow, or sometimes of a purple colour, which last was from eating the
prunus maritima,
which fruit, at the same time, I took out
@@@1 lie was rather superintendent of the garden than professor properly so called.
