other seven, with the addition of Cumbraes in Buteshire, and Largs in Ayrshire, both of which parishes formerly belonged to the presbytery of Irvine. In the above enumeration of parishes, those which are so
quoad sacra
only have not been taken into account.
About two thirds of this county, comprehending the western and southern sides, are hilly, the medium elevation being from 500 to 600 feet. Mistylaw, on the west, which is about 1240 feet above the level of the sea, has been represented as the highest hill in the county ; but it is now ascertained that a neighbouring height, called the Hill of Staik, is entitled to that distinction, being a few feet higher. This last was one of the points of observation in the general trigonometrical survey of the kingdom. Balagiech and Dun-wan are the highest hills on the south-east side, being about 1000 feet above the sea-level. The hilly district is in general kept in pasture, for which it is better adapted, by the nature of its surface, than for tillage ; though, as it has a free light soil, which readily absorbs water, it is seldom injured by moisture. The cultivated land, which forms the gently-rising district, lies on the north and north-east, and in the centre of the county on both sides of the Black CarL Of this the greater part consists of low, detached eminences, which swell in endless variety. These being interspersed with copses, and often watered at the bottom by winding streams, present views remarkable for richness and variety. Indeed it will be difficult to point to a more beautiful surface anywhere in Scotland. Much of this tract has a close subsoil of small stones and coarse clay, almost impenetrable to water, though there are here many flat holms of great fertility. It is only between Paisley and the Clyde that the country sinks down into a plain, forming the flat district known by the name of “ the Laighlands.” The length of this beautiful level tract is about six miles, its breadth about three, and its area 12,000 acres. Here the soil is generally a deep rich loam of a dark-brown colour, sometimcs of the nature of what is called “ carse clay ;” and much of it seems to have been formed by the deposition of vegetable mould from the higher grounds. Moss prevails in the first and last divisions, but is not found in the second one, where the soil is pretty uniform.
Like the other western counties of Scotland, Renfrewshire has a moist climate, with frequent rains ; and the prevailing wind is from the south-west. At Largs, a village in Ayrshire, near the western extremity of this county, the yearly quantity of rain in 1809 and 1810 was 38⅔ inches ; at Glasgow, near the eastern extremity, for thirty years, from 1761 to 1790, it was 29∙65 inches.
Besides the Clyde, which, as has been already mentioned, flows along the northern and western boundaries of this county, the principal rivers are the White Cart, the Black Cart, and the Gryfe. The White Cart, which rises in Lanarkshire, enters Renfrewshire from the south, and pursues a winding course, first westerly towards Paisley, through which it passes, and then northerly towards the Clyde. It is joined at Inchinnan Bridge by the Black Cart, which had previously received the waters of the Gryfe at Walkinshaw, above Barnsford Bridge ; and these united streams, which contain nine tenths of the water of the county, fall into the Clyde about three miles below Paisley. By means of a short canal, which was cut to avoid the shallows at Inchinnan Bridge in 1786, the White Cart is navigable up to Paisley. Other improvements upon this river are in progress. Like some other Scottish streams, it was once famous for the pearls which were found in its bed, but these have disappeared since the beginning of the eighteenth century. The
Black Cart rises from Loch Winnoch, or, as it is usually called, from an adjoining estate, Castle-Semple Loch, a lake in the south-western extremity of the county. The Gryfe rises in the west, amongst the high lands of the parish of Greenock. All these streams, and several others of smaller size, independently of their importance to agriculture, are, in almost every part of their course, applied by the industrious and ingenious inhabitants to the various purposes of manufactures. A ready supply of water is secured by means of reservoirs, some of which are of the size and appearance of considerable lakes ; or by enlarging the natural lakes themselves, of which there are many. These streams and lakes contain the kinds of fish that are common in this quarter of the country.
Two railways, which will traverse the county, are now (March 1839) in course of being formed. Commencing at Glasgow, they will have a common line to Paisley, from which the one will lead north-westwards to Greenock, and the Otherwestwardstoseveralplacesin Ayrshire. Theseways oftransport must prove Ofincalculable value to the trade and commerce of the county. It is expected that they will be opened in 1840. The Paisley and Renfrew railway, and the canal from Glasgow to Johnston, have been noticed in the account of Paisley.
The minerals of Renfrewshire are of great importance, and constitute the main source of its manufactures and commerce ; but we can only advert to them very generally. Coal, limestone, and sandstone, are wrought at Neilston, one of the parishes of the hilly district ; and both coal and lime have been found in the flat district near Renfrew ; but it is in the middle division that mines are wrought to the greatest extent. Of coal there are generally about twelve different works carried on, of which the most extensive and valuable are at Polmadie, on the north-east boundary ; at Hurlet, three miles south-east from Paisley, where it has been wrought for more than three hundred years ; and at Quarrelton, south-east from Johnston, on the Black Cart, near the centre of the county. The coal at this latter place consists of five contiguous strata ; the thickness of the whole, measured at right angles to their surface, is upwards of fifty feet ; but as in some places the seam forms a considerable angle with the horizon, the thickness of the whole in these places, measured vertically, is about fifteen fathoms. In consequence of this great depth, it is wrought in floors or stories. Limestone abounds in various parts, and is commonly wrought at eight different quarries. Ironstone in beds and balls is found in great profusion. Considerable quantities of pyrites are found in the stratum of coal at Hurlet and Househill, and manufactured into sulphate of iron or green vitriol. Alum is obtained at Hurlet, from the decomposed schistus which forms one of the strata of its coal-mines. Excellent freestone, lying near the surface, is wrought at various places in the middle district. Greenstone, or, as it is provincially called,
whinstone,
exists in immense masses.@@1
The annual value of real property in Renfrewshire, as assessed in 1815, was L.265,534 sterling. The valued rent in 1674 was L.69,172 Scots. This, exclusive of small properties occupied by
feuars,
chiefly as gardens, was, in 1810, divided among 350 proprietors, the estates of eighty-one of whom were above the valuation of L.100 Scots, and only six were above L.2000 Scots. At that time nearly half the valuation belonged to estates held under entail, and by corporations, which were not therefore allowed to be brought to market. Landed property in Renfrewshire underwent great changes during the forty years which preceded 1810,
1
@@@ Much valuable and interesting information on the geology of Renfrewshire will be found in an essay by Mr William Montgomery, younger of Cloak, factor, Castle-Semple, inserted amongst the Frize Essays and Transactions of the Highland and Agricultural Society ofScotland for December 1838, p. 421.
