of
the
lead-line f h
sewn on to the last row of the
tuck ;
L is the bullet ;
s, s, s, s, s, », s,
the course of the twine, sim- _ ply run through the meshes and round the lead-line ;
t, t, 
the
tie
which holds the mesh on each side the bullet L first; 
v, v, v,
the twine which sews the line to the meshes, passing over the bullet, being threaded through the loops which extend along the length of the bullet. The
trammel
consists of three separate layers of nettings, and derives its name from its conformation
(trois mailles,
French), because it ensnares by
threefold meshes.
The three parts consist of two
out-wallings
and the
lint;
this latter is suspended loosely between the two former, it being made twice their length and twice their depth. The two
out-wallings
are to be of the same size.
The length and depth of this engine varies according to the service it is intended to perform, either in fishing or fowling ; the same may be said of the size of the meshes ; those of the
out-wallings,
however, are generally five times larger from knot to knot than those of the /«'«/. All the parts should be netted
four square
(as
oblong
and
square 
netting is sometimes called, see No. 6 in this article), the Zinf in twine as fine as may be consistent with the required strength, and the
οut-wallings
with much stouter material in proportion. These, when finished, are to be
mounted. 
Fix each of the four comers of one
out-walling
to four pegs driven into the ground, which should be cleared of rubbish, &c. The
out-walling
is to be stretched tight. Pass all round the
lint,
through each mesh, a stout line of twine, as thick as that of which the
out-wallings
are made. This line, and likewise the
lint
at its four corners, is made fast to the four pegs ; the former is drawn tight from peg to peg, but the latter, being longer and wider, hangs loosely. The meshes of the
lint
should be as equally distributed along the line as is possible. Over the
lint
is applied the other
out-walliηy,
the four corners of which are to be fastened to the four pegs. Ifthe engine is intended for fishing, a stout cord must be threaded with round flat corks two inches diameter, and half an inch thick, more or less.
This cord is to be fixed along the
head
of the net by means of pieces of twine whipped two or three times round, and embracing the line of the
lint,
the margins of each
out-walling,
and the
cord
itself. The twine is tied into a firm knot at those points where the cord meets the angles of the
out-walling's
meshes. The floats are placed about six inches apart, and are pierced, so as to embrace the
head-rope
firmly. This last is made fast down
each side of
the net, at the angles of the meshes of the
out-wallings ;
but it has here no floats ; it is extended along the bottom of the net, where it is called
the foot-rope,
and is weighted with small plates of lead rolled and beaten round it with a hammer, as a tag is fixed round a boot-lace, at about every three inches.
The cord that thus surrounds the net must be bent into a loop at each end of the top of the net, for to these is to be made fast a
draw-rope
when the net is
shot.
Some net-makers also tie the three layers of net together at each angle of the meshes of the
out-wallings
throughout the area of the net, to give additional strength, and to prevent the Λwf getting
huddled
together at the bottom when suspended in the water or drawn along the ground. This engine acts thus : The fish or fowl passes through the large mesh of the out-walling, strikes against the
lint,
which, hanging loosely, yields, and protrudes through the corresponding mesh of the other
out-walling,
and thus forms a
cæcum, 
into which the animal falls, and is entangled. The
hoop-net
consists of two parts ; the
body,
and the
valve, funnel, 
or
guild,
which are united in the manner hereafter to be described. Begin w ith the
body
at its lower or pointed end (see fig. 8), and work up to its entrance, thus : Net thirty-seven loops round on a spool four inches circumference, one row. Take a spool two inches circumference and net twcnty rows of
dead
netting. In the next row set in five
the two rows must be accurately placed one upon the other, by folding the net over on itself ; then proceed as before. Sea-nets, such as those for herrings and mackerel, which are made in
rands
or breadths, are joined rand to rand lengthways, or along the
selvages.
The former are composed of three breadths, each thirty-two yards long by fifty loops deep, on a spool three inches in circumference. At the close of each year the lowest rand, which goes deepest into the sea, is removed, and a new one joined on at the top of the net ; so that the rand which was uppermost now becomes second, and that which was second is now the lowest. This latter is removed at the end of the next season, when the same rule is observed in replacing it, and so on every year ; thus the whole of the original net is renewed every three years. This operation is called by net-makers, giving the net a
new jacket.
Another mode of joining, and when performed carefully it is the neatest, is by uniting the two nets, or the two margins of one net, in the same way as the last row of the new piece is joined to the meshes of the old net in
mending.
The first-made side of the
inserted
or
joining work
must be twice as long as the rest, as also the last side of the suture ; for they, in fact, are equivalent to
two
sides of a mesh. The following description of specific nets will serve to furnish examples of the foregoing rules, and of the mode of
mounting
nets, which yet remains to be noticed.
The
easting-net
(fig. 7) is netted round and round (see No. 7 in this article) ; the number of the loops for the 
lever
vary, as well as their size, according as it is intended for
gudgeons,
&c. or
minnows ;
in either case, it would be a great loss of labour if the whole net were made on one spool so small as it is necessary the lower part of this engine should be. Spools therefore of different circumferences are used, diminishing gradually from the largest for the top, to the smallest for the
tuck.
The following will form a good-sized net for
gudgeons
and larger fish. Fill the needle with double twine, net four rounds with a spool two inches and a half circumference, on a
lever
of thirty-six loops ; then use single twine, and in the fifth row set in twelve
false meshes ;
net two rounds dead netting, and then set
∖
nfalse meshes
in the same line with the others, having taken care to set in the
quarterings
of the fifth row so as to divide the circle into equal parts. Net two feet down on the first spool, then one foot down on each of seven other spools, each spool being an eighth of an inch less than the preceding one. Continue to set in
quarterings
in their proper places, and at the commencement of the
eighth foot
set in four additional
false meshes
equidistantly between the 
original quarterings,
and continue putting in the
accrues 
until you have netted a foot and a half more, having taken to your
eighth spool
at the beginning of the
ninth foot; 
then net four rows
dead
netting in
double
twine ; take your 
ninth spool,
and net two feet six inches of
dead
netting for the
tuck,
the last two rounds in
double
twine. Have a stout line with leaden bullets threaded on it, and sew this line, with running stitches, through each mesh, along the lowest row of the net, the interval between each
lead
being two inches. This weighted margin is then turned upwards and inwards, and made fast to the
double twine-work above the tuck,
at about every foot of the circumference, by means of ratlines three inches long. The
lead-line
should be about a foot less in length than the row of the
tuck
to which >t is sewn. The leads are made fast to the line by being tied at each end to prevent slipping, and the holes should be bored as near the size of the line as possible. In
fig.
7, the lines
a, a, a,
show the seams formed by the
accrues
running down tile net ;
d, d, d, d,
are the
ratlines
by which me tuck is suspended from the rows of
double
meshes, marked by dots ;
be, bc,
indicate the
tuck
which forms a senes of pockets, or rather one continuous pocket, inside net, into which the fish fall. Fig. 7* shows a portion
