price is accompanied with only one-fourth of the travelling, the ratio of population to that of travelling being very nearly 4 to 1. A still stronger case is that of the Paisley canal, where the fly-boat fare is Id. per mile. Here, with a population of262,725, the passengers in 1835 were 373,290, whilst in the same year, with a population of 486,812, the Liverpool and Manchester railway had only 473,849 passengers. The railway company from Paris to St. Germain’s has tried the experiment of low prices with complete success ; their greatest reduction of fares was at the station of Nanterre, where they were lowered from 7½d. to 5d., and the result was, that twelve days, ending the 4th December 1838, at the low fares, compared with twelve days ending November 22, at the high ones, shewed an increase of 839 passengers ; and although the diminution in price was 34 per cent., the increase in the amount received was 16½ per cent. We therefore strongly recommend that fares should be moderate, or it will form the best plea in the world for the establishment of competing lines ; and it should be remembered that railways will to a certain extent drive vans and waggons off the road, which were the ordinary vehicles for the travelling poor, and they ought to have a substitute, if it were merely an open box without seats. Soldiers are generally conveyed at Id. each per mile, and their baggage at 3d. per ton per mile ; this is less than half what is charged on some railways in second-class carriages.
The general system of working a line, which we have here Maid down, is that which is adapted for a first-rate railway. On secondary lines it will perhaps be necessary to place several of the departments under one person’s superintendence, instead of having a head to each ; but
as this would be merely on the score of lessening expenditure, it should not bc resorted to without there is a rigid necessity for it. On short lines this necessity will exist. When this is the case, one person might take the coaching department, goods’ department, and the police, porters, and guards ; the disbursement clerk might be dispensed with ; one engineer might take the locomotive department, the construction and repairing department, and also the maintenance of the way, having good foremen in each case. But it is so much better to have a responsible head in every department, that we should always recommend that course to be adopted whenever it is practicable, that is to say, whenever the income of the company will allow it. It may, however, well deserve consideration, in every railway establishment, whether, at each of the stations of every kind, it would not save a considerable expense to have the porters, or a part of them, sworn in as police, so that they might on occasion act in either capacity. Attention to the number of entrance and exit gates, in planning out the stations, will also conduce to economy, as each of these will in general require an attendant policeman. There are numerous other means by which, in the middling and smaller class of railways, a moderate expenditure as well as a good arrangement, may be combined ; but so much depends on the localities, together with the nature and extent of the traffic, that nothing definitive can be pointed out, except from a careful consideration of these ; and the best step which the directors of all railways can take previous to forming any system whatever, is to consult a properly qualified and experienced person, both as to general principles and as to details.
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.
Plate CCCCXX. fig. 1, is a plan of a sliding rail and eccentric for a crossing or siding place. The eccentric being attached by rods to the sliding rails (which move on a joint at the opposite end) draws them to either line, as required.
Fig. 2 is a longitudinal, and fig. 3 a transverse section of the same.
Fig. 4 shews a plan and section of a fixed point.
Fig. 5 shews the general arrangement of the whole of the preceding figures, to form a complete crossing.
Fig. 6 is a plan, fig. 7 a longitudinal, and fig. 8 a transverse section of the mode of laying the blocks, sleepers, and rails in an excavation, together with the ballasting, and an approved method of drainage. The blocks are shewn as laid diagonally in the manner they have been on the London and Birmingham Railway. The drains are of brick.
Plate CCCCXXI. fig· 1, is a mail carriage, as at present used, with its imperial.
Fig· 2 a side, and fig. 3 an end view of a first-class carriage.
Plate CCCCXXΠ. fig. 1, shews a close second-class carriage, with brakes which are worked by the handle at the top of the right hand end.
Fig. 2 is a plan of the buffer and drawing apparatus for the first and second-class carriages, and the mails.
Fig. 3 is a third-class carriage, and fig. 4 a plan of the drawing apparatus. In these carriages there are no buffer springs, but merely blocks at each end of the body. On some railways, the second-class carriages shewn here are not used, but the third-class, with the addition of a roof, is called the second-class. When this is the case, the ends are generally closed, but the sides are left open.
Fig. 5 shews a different form of buffing apparatus used on the Dublin and Kingston Railway ; the buffer rod goes the whole length of the carriage, having a similar head and spring at the other end.
Plate CCCCXXIIL figs. I and 2, are an end and side view of an approved earth waggon ; and figs. 3 and 4 shew another which has been very generally adopted. The brakes are shewn in both.
Plate CCCCXXIV. fig. 1, is a ground plan of the London and Birmingham Railway engine-house at Birmingham, shewing also the mode of laying on the water ;
a, a, a
are the main water pipes ; 
⅛. b, b
air vessels placed over the main pipes, to prevent the ram of the water when the cleansing and forcing cocks are shut suddenly, which, with a considerable head of water, would endanger the breaking the pipes ; c, c, c cleansing and forcing cocks ; these have strong hoses attached to them, by means of which an engine standing over the cleansing pits
d, d, d,
may be worked, and the boiler cleansed, and also filled when the steam is up, the usual force of water on the jet being 78 lbs. 10 oz. to the square inch;
e, e, e
lines of rails from the central turnplate to each engine pit.
Fig. 2 is a sectional view of the guard pipes through which the water mains are taken, when they cross the lines of rails as seen in fig. 1, in order to prevent damage to the road from leakage or accident. They also admit new pipes being laid down without disturbing the rails ; a is the iron guard pipe ;
b
the water main ; c manhole for an entrance to the guard pipe ; under this, at the lower part of the man hole, is a drain to the nearest culvert.
Fig. 3 is a general plan of a siding on each side of the main lines, and also of α crossing from one line to the other. See also Plate CCCCXX. figs. 1 to 5.
Fig. 4 shews the rope as attached to the working wheels in the fixed engine-house at Camden Town, on the London and Birmingham Railway, by which the trains are drawn up from Euston Square. To obviate the effects of the atmosphere on the rope, a tightening wheel, travelling on a railway, as shewn in fig. 5, is used, from which a heavy weight is attached by a chain, and bangs in a well ; by this means there is always an equal tension on the rope. The running sheeves on inclined planes should be very well fitted, and nearly all noise will be prevented by covering their working edges with netting.
Plate CCCCXXV. fig. 1, is a vertical section of a water crane ;
α
the lever for opening the upper valve inside the tank ;
b
the tank ; 
c
a compartment to be filled and warmed by the exhaust steam from the pumping engine, so as to warm the water before it is filled into tbe locomotives; the escape steam from the safety valve also is blown into the compartment c ,∙
d, d
the ends of the boilers ; e the supply pipe, fitted with a Stufling gland at the top at
f,
where it enters tbe tank to allow for expansion ;
g
the continuation of the supply pipe, which goes to the crane on the opposite line of rails ; the blank flange has a cock at Λ, by which the pipes can be emptied and cleaned, also to prevent the water freezing; i tbe crane turning in a gland at A, and a collar at
l; m
the brace of the crane; n the gib of the crane ; o hose of the supply valve for filling the engines ;
p
a leather hose to conduct the water. When the fall of water is high, these cranes must be very firmly fixed, or else instead of a supply valve on the gib, they must be fitted with a sluice cock fixed in the horizontal portion of the pipe ; s, s the line of rails. When not in use, the cranes are turned round flat against the wall
t,
to which they are fixed.
Fig. 2 is an end view of the part
h.
Fig. 3, plan of an invalid carriage ; α,
a
the seats ;
b, b
doors leading into the passage
d; c, c
apartments containing portable water-closets ;
c
do. containing a urinal ;
d, d
passage from each body to the water-closets;
e
door to urinal; /and
g
doors to the water-closets.
Fig. 4, plan of a smoking carriage, having seats (c), in the direβ>
