right line equal to a curve. The rectification of curves is a branch belonging to the higher geometry, in which the use of the inverse method of fluxions is of singular utility.
RECTILINEAR, in
Geometry,
right-lined. Thus figures the perimeter of which consists of right lines, are said to be rectilinear.
RECTOR, a term applied to several persons whose offices are very different. The rector of a parish is a clergyman who has the charge and cure of a parish, and possesses all the tithes, &c. The same name is also given to the chief elective officer in several foreign universities, particularly in that of Paris, and also in those of Scotland ; and it is likewise applied to the head master of large schools in Scotland, as in the High School of Edinburgh. Rector is further used in several convents to indicate the superior officer who governs the house ; and the Jesuits give this name to the superiors of such of their houses as are either seminaries or colleges.
RECTORY is a parish-church, parsonage, or spiritual living, with all its rights, tithes, and glebes.
Rectory, however, is sometimes used for the rector’s mansion or parsonage-house.
RECUPERATORES, amongst the Romans, were commissioners appointed to take cognizance of private matters in dispute, between the subjects of the state and foreigners, and to take care that the former had justice done them. It came at last to be used for commissioners, to whom the praetor referred the determination of any affair between one subject and another.
RECUSANTS, such persons as acknowledge the pope to be the supreme head of the church, and refuse to acknowledge the king’s supremacy. They are hence called Popish Recusants.
RED, one of the colours called
simple
or
primary,
being one of the shades into which the light naturally divides itself when refracted through a prism.
Red-JZooA of the Exchequer, an ancient record or manuscript volume, in the keeping of the king’s remembrancer, and containing divers treatises relating to the times before the Conquest.
RED POINT, a cape on the east coast of New Holland, with four projecting hillocks upon it, and which has the appearance of a double saddle. Long. 150. 56. E. Lat. 34. 33. S.
RED RIVER is one of the principal confluents of the Mississippi, in North America. Its source is situated at the base of a range
of
the Rocky Mountains, called the Caous Mountains, near Santa Fe, in Mexico. A great number of streams descend this chain, and, flowing separately for some three or four hundred miles, at length unite and form the Red River. The country through which its upper branches flow is but little known. After the river enters Louisiana, its south bank forms for a great distance the boundary between the United States and Texas. Much of its course lies through noble prairies of a rich red soil covered with grass intermingled with vines, which bear, it is said, excellent grapes. About a hundred miles above Natchitoches the alluvion enlarges to a breadth of twenty or thirty miles, forming a sort of swampy bed through which the river flows in a number of channels. Great quantities of timber, brought down from the upper parts of the river, have for ages been accumulating in these channels, and to such an extent, that in some parts the stream may be crossed on horseback. Hence the name of Raft, which this swampy expansion bears throughout its whole extent. The river finds its way sometimes below these accumulations of timber, sometimes between them. Nearly seventy miles of the river are thus obstructed ; and it is of incalculable injury to its navigation, for here small boats only can pass. For nearly a thousand miles above the Raft the soil is extremely rich, and the climate very salubrious ; but, until
this obstacle be removed, it will form an almost insurmount able barrier to its proper settlement. Below the Raft the river separates into a number of channels, and expands at intervals into a multitude of sheets of water. Its breadth enlarges as it approaches the Mississippi ; but immediately below the Raft the channel becomes narrower than above it. From both sides it receives a vast number of tributaries. The whole length of this noble stream is estimated at 2500 miles, following its meanderings ; and it enters the Mississippi in about 31° 15' north latitude. It was supposcd at one time to discharge itself into the Gulf of Mexico without joining the Mississippi. Much of the soil through which the Red River passes in its upper course is of a reddish colour, which is imparted to the waters, and hence the name of the stream. So impregnated is it with this ochreous earth, that at low water at Natchitoches it cannot be used for culinary purposes. The valley of Red River is three or four miles in breadth as far as the Kiamesia, which, following its windings, is about a thousand miles from its mouth. But it widens to from six to eighteen miles as it approaches the Mississippi, and is of an average breadth of twelve miles for a great distance above the confluence of the rivers. This alluvial tract is considered as equal to any in all the vast valley of the Mississippi. The staple production is cotton, of a quality superior to any raised in thc United States except Sea Island. Its indigo and tobacco are the best raised in Louisiana ; and sugar has been introduced, and found to thrive well.    (r. r. r.)
Red River is also the name of a number of other American streams. The most important is that which flows into Lake Winnipeg, in the northern part of North America. It is formed of two branches, the principal of which rises in Red Lake, and flows west by north for a hundred and fifty miles, when it is joined by the other branch. It then changes its direction to east of north, and flows for a hundred and eighty miles below its junction, when it falls into Lake Winnipeg.    (R. κ. r.)
RED SEA. This great inlet of the Indian Ocean, which divides Arabia from the opposite coast of Africa, extends in a north-west direction about 1400 miles from the Straits of Babelmandel1 where it is not above thirty miles across to Suez, and only sixty miles distant from the Mediterranean, so that the maritime communication by this route between India and Europe is only divided by this narrow isthmus, which also forms the connecting link between the continents of Asia and Africa. This sea lies between the twelfth and thirtieth degrees of north latitude, and is nowhere broader than 200 miles, and scarcely ever of that width. The navigation of the Red Sea is difficult and dangerous, owing to the reefs and coral rocks both above and under the water ; and also, for nine months of the year, in consequence of the violent winds which blow regularly from the north, and impede the passage from the Straits to Suez. There are few harbours to which vessels in distress can repair for shelter. On the eastern coast there is not a single harbour from Suez to Yambo, the port of Medina, nor thence to Jidda. Compodah is the next harbour, about 150 miles south of Jidda. But, in entering Yemen, there are the harbours of Mocha, Loheia, and Hodeida. The navigation to Suez, at the head of the gulf, is extremely difficult through the upper part of the Red Sea, the channel through which vessels have to pass being narrow, with rocks sunk beneath the surface. The only other ports on the western shore are Cosseir, the port and road of which are formed by reefs, which defend it from the north-east winds, and by a headland, which secures it against those blowing from the south-south-east, and which has only a depth of water of two fathoms and a half. Here the goods destined for Egypt are landed, conveyed by land to Keneh on the Nile, thence down the river to Alexandria. Suakim, about 500 miles south-east of Cosseir, is extremely difficult of entrance, not
