after the manner of fishes, from spawn-like ova., they possess for a time the essential characters of the finny race ; and yet, on the lapse of a few brief weeks, their pisciform appearance vanishes, and leaving the water, they crawl or leap about upon the earth, or climbing the stems of forest trees, they dwell among the umbrageous branches. In some the transition state, if we may say so, continues permanent, the gills existing simultaneously with feeble lungs, and a tail being combined with short external members. Of the structure of these curious animals more will be said hereafter.
The
ovum
or
egg
of these reptiles is a round mass of transparent nutritive jelly, in the centre of which appears a small black globule. By degrees this shapeless globule exhibits the appearance of a head and tail, and in this state it emerges from its prison, and moves about briskly in the water. It is provided with a long fleshy tail, and a small horny beak, and has no other visible member, except two feathery tufts on the sides of the neck, which float loosely, and without protection, in the surrounding fluid. These, however, are mere temporary organs ; for they serve the purpose of respiration only until the proper gills are formed, and then shrink or disappear.@@1 The true gills or branchiæ are contained within the body, three or four in number on each side, constructed on a plan similar to those of fishes ; the water entering by the mouth, and escaping in some species by two openings, and in others by one only. Retaining their aquatic constitution, the
tadpoles
(as in this intermediate state they are often called) rapidly increase in size and activity tor some weeks. In the mean time the legs, of which no trace was at first apparent, have commenced their growth. The hind ones are the first to make their appearance externally, although the anterior pair are as soon developed, and may be seen at an early period folded beneath their transparent covering. The animal at this period wears a very ambiguous appearance, partaking both of the form of the frog and lizard, and swimming as well by the inflection of the tail as by the irregular impulse of the feet.@@2 At this time the beak falls off, and the true jaws, which originally were hid under the skin, appear. The eye, too, which had been seen only through a transparent spot in the tadpole’s skin, appears complete and prominent. This interval is also employed in acquiring the faculty of respiring atmospheric air. The animal every now and then rises to the surface and takes a mouthful of air, which is received into the newly formed lungs, and then discharged. When the necessary internal changes are at length completed, the tail, which has now become a useless member, diminishes and disappears. The gills, too, have by this time shrunk, their function being superseded by the lungs, and the animal emerging from the water, begins a new mode of existence as a perfect reptile.
During its aquatic state the tadpole lives principally on vegetable food, but in its perfect form much more upon various insects ; and there is a remarkable and corresponding change in its digestive organs, which assume the character of those of a carnivorous creature. Most of the Batrachia, we may also remark, are oviparous, whilst not a few of them are ovo-viviparous. It should, moreover,
be observed, that most of the species of this group, during their aquatic condition, possess the extraordinary power of suffering the privation of a part, or the whole, of one or more of their members without vital injury, and of afterwards renewing them as if no loss had been endured ; a property of which we have already made mention in our summary account of lizards, and to which we may again briefly return in our notice of the aquatic salamander
We shall now take a nearer view of the vascular and respiratory systems of these animals. The
circulation,
in the tadpole state, is in every respect analogous to that of fishes : the blood is transmitted from a simple bilocular or twτ o-lobed heart to the branchial arches, and, after
aeration 
by the water, returns, and is circulated through the system. The transition from this condition to that which the vascular organs present in the perfect reptile state is very striking. Originally three or four branchial trunks pass off from each side of the heart, and terminate in the minute network of the gills ; from this network the returning vessels take their origin, one from each of the gills, the first of which goes to the head, and the other two conjoining, convey the blood to the rest of the system, as in fishes. But in addition to these vessels, there are some small undeveloped ones, which effect a communication between the vessels which go to the gills and those which return from them ; as also another which, given off from tlle heart, unites with the aorta, to be distributed to the as yet rudimentary lungs. After the metamorphosis is begun, the branches which connect the arteries of the gills with the returning veins are greatly enlarged, so that a part of the blood flow's continuously through them without proceeding to the gills at all, and the proper branchial vessels relatively diminish ; and the last-named trunk, which was thc smallest of all, becomes the largest, and an increased proportion of blood is sent to the lungs. By a continuance of these changes, the branchial vessels are finally obliterated, and the communicating branches, at Hrstonlysecondary and irregular, now constitute part of the continuous and permanent system of circulation.
The
respiration
of the Batrachia, after they have arrived at their permanent mode of existence, is not less singular than their circulation ; and this chiefly in two particulars,— as it regards thc lungs, and the function of the skin. If we take a frog, for example,@@1 and watch its respiration, we cannot readily discover that it breathes at all ; for it never opens its mouth to receive air, and there is no motion of the sides to indicate that it respires ; and yet, on any sudden alarm, we see the animal blowing itself up, as if by some internal power, though its mouth all the while continues closed. We may perceive, however, that its throat is in frequent motion, as if the frog were economizing its mouthful of air, and transferring it backwards and forwards between its mouth and lungs ; and if we direct our attention to the nostrils, we may observe in them a twisting motion at each movement of the jaws ; for it is through the nostrils that the frog receives all the air which it breathes. The jaws are never open but for the purpose of eating ; and the sides of the mouth form a sort of bellows, of which the nostrils
1
@@@ See Roget's
Bridgcreater Treatise,
ii. 330.
