of Mr Gibson, an able teacher of mathematics at Dunbar ; where he soon distinguished himself in so particular a manner, that Mr David Loch, general inspector of the fisheries in Scotland, in describing a visit which he paid to the school at Dunbar in 1778, notices the great proficiency displayed by young Rennie ; prophesying that at no distant period he would prove an honour to his country.@@1 From this school, in less than two years, he returned to Mr Meikle, with a mind well stored with every branch of mathematical and physical science which Mr Gibson could teach him. About this time, Mr Gibson being appointed master to the public academy of Perth, he earnestly recommended young Rennie to succeed him at Dunbar. But his views were of a more aspiring cast As a matter of favour, he undertook the management of the school for about six weeks, when he returned to his family, occasionally visiting and assisting his friend Mr Meikle, but mostly improving himself in drawing and making models of machinery. His first essay in practical mechanics was the repairing of a corn-mill in his native village ; and he erected two or three others before he was eighteen years of age.
Resolved, however, that these mechanical occupations should not interfere with his studies, he laid his plans so that he should be able to proceed occasionally to Edinburgh with a view of improving himself in physical science. He there attended the lectures of Professors Robison and Black, and formed that acquaintance with the former of these gentlemen, which was gradually raised into friendship, and which, perhaps, may be said to have laid the foundation of his future fortune ; for by him he was introduced to Messrs Bolton and Watt of Soho, near Birmingham. Witll these gentlemen he remained but a few months, for the purpose of receiving explanations respecting the plan of the Albion Mills, then erecting, the machinery of which he superintended. This exactly suited his views ; for, conscious of his own powers, he deemed the capital the proper theatre to try their strength, and in this he was not mistaken.
In proceeding from Edinburgh to Soho, he had taken the route by Carlisle, Lancaster, Liverpool, and Manchester, for the purpose of visiting the different mills and public w’orks in those great commercial and manufacturing towns ; and the remarks which he made on the bridge then building over the Lune at Lancaster, on the docks at Liverpool, and more particularlyon the Bridgewater Canal, are distinguished by great sagacity, and were of essential use to him afterwards. On leaving Soho, he again made a tour through the manufacturing districts of Leeds, Sheffield, Rotherham, and Newcastle.
For some time after he was settled in London, the Albion Mills, of which Bolton and Watt and Mr Wyatt were the projectors and leading proprietors, and who engaged him to superintend the execution of the mill-work, occupied a great share of his attention. Mr Watt, in his Notes to Professor Robison’s Account of the Steam-Engine, says, that, “ in tlle construction of the mill-work and machinery, they derived most valuable assistance from that able mechanician and engineer Mr John Rennie, then just entering into business, who assisted in placing them, and under whose direction they were executed.” He also says, that the machinery, which used to be made of wood, was here made of cast iron, in improved forms ; and thinks that this was the commencement of that system of mill-work which has proved so beneficial to this country. In fact, Rennie’s mills are the most perfect species of mechanism in that way that exist, distinguished by a precision of movement and a harmony and proportion of parts that now serve as models throughout the empire. His water-mills are so accurately calculated, that every particle of water is
effectively employed, and none of it lost, as in the common mode of constructing water-wheels. There is reason to believe that the difficulties which occurred at the Albion Mills with regard to the ebb and flow of the tides, and which required all the ingenuity of that extraordinary genius, Mr Watt, first led Mr Rennie to the study of that branch of civil engineering connected with hydraulics and hydrodynamics, and in which he soon became so celebrated as to have no rival after the death of Smeaton, in whose steps, he always used to say, he was proud to follow.
Our limited space will not permit us to enter upon even an enumeration of all his great works, much less to give any detailed account of them ; we must therefore content ourselves by mentioning some of the most important designs and undertakings in his threefold capacity of mechanist, architect, and civil engineer ; three branches of art so intimately blended as scarcely to admit of a separation.
First, as a Mechanist. Immediately after the completion of the Albion Mills, in 1786 or 1787, Mr Rennie’s reputation was so firmly established in everything connected with mill-work, that he found himself in a very extensive line of business. To him the planters of Jamaica and of the other West India islands applied for their sugar-mills, which he constructed in a manner so superior to the old ones, that he soon obtained almost a monopoly of these expensive works. The powder-mill at Tunbridge, the great flour-mill at Wandsworth, several saw-mills, the machinery for various breweries and distilleries, were mostly of his manufacture ; and wherever his machinery was required to be impelled by steam, the incomparable engines of his friends Messrs Bolton and Watt supplied the moving power ; but, contrary to what has been stated in some of the public journals, he never had the least concern in directing, contriving, or advising any one part or movement of the steam-engine. He also constructed those beautiful specimens of machinery, the rolling and triturating mills, at the Mint on Tower Hill, to which Bolton and Watt’s engines give motion ; and, at the time of his death, he was engaged in the construction of a rolling-mill, and similar machinery, for the intended mint at Calcutta.
As a bold and ingenious piece of mechanism, which may be considered as distinct from positive architecture, there is nothing in Europe that can hear a comparison with the Southwark Bridge. The three immense arches, the centre one of 240, and each side arch of 210 feet span, consist entirely of masses of cast iron, of various forms and dimensions, put together on the same principle as a similar fabric of hewn stone ; a method of employing iron which may be considered to form a new epoch in the history of bridge-building. Various sinister predictions were entertained against this light and beautiful bridge, which was to be rent in pieces by the expansive power of the first summer’s heat, or, if it escaped that, by the contraction of the first winter’s cold ; but it has stood the test of many winters and summers, and appears not to feel either. Mr Rennie was applied to by the East India Company for the design of a cast-iron bridge to be thrown over the river Goomty at Lucknow, at the desire of the nabob vizier of Oude. It consisted of three arches of cast iron, the centre arch ninety, and each of the other arches eighty feet span. The arches were cast, and a superintending engineer sent out with them ; but on their arrival, the nabob, in one of those moments of caprice to which eastern despots, even in their impotency, are so liable, changed his mind, and would not allow it to be put up.
Secondly, as an Architect. Since there are few parts of civil engineering that do not occasionally require the aid of architecture, Rennie, at a very early stage of his pro-
1
@@@ Loch's Essays on the Trade, Commerce, Manufactures, and Fisheries ofScotland, vol. iii. p∙ 211.
