to appear orbicular, as in
A. orbicularis,
a South American reptile, which, from its thickened form and broadened head, seems at first sight a connecting link between the frogs and lizards.
The genus Trapelus, Cuv., has the teeth and general form of Agama, but the scales are small and spineless. There are no pores on the thighs.
T. Egyptius,
Geoff, is a small species, in which the body is sometimes inflated. It can change its colour even more rapidly than the chameleon. This genus is not easily distinguished from some thick and slightly spined species of Agama, to which indeed the genera
Leiolepis, Tropidolepis,
and
Leposoma,
are nearly allied, and for the descriptive characters of which we may refer the reader to systematic works. The genus Calotes, Cuv., differs from Agama in being regularly covered with scales disposed tile-ways, often keeled and pointed, as well on the body as on the limbs, and tail, which is of great length. The scales on the middle of the back are more or less raised and compressed, forming a crest or ridge of variable extent. There are neither wattles nor pores upon the thighs,
-—characters which sufficiently distinguish them from the
Iguanas proper.
The best-known species is that called the galeot lizard
(L. calotes,
Linn.), of a variable colour, but usually of a fine light blue, with transverse lines of white upon the sides. There are two rows of spines behind the ear, and a lengthened ridge along the back. Its eggs are fusiform, or spindle-shaped. This curious reptile is native to the East Indies, and is called
chameleon
in the Moluccas, though it scarcely changes its colour. It is said to wander about upon the roofs of houses in quest of spiders ; and Lacépède observes that it is reported to prey even on rats, and to fight with serpents. When out of temper, its throat becomes so inflated as to give it a frightful aspect. If authors are correct, its distribution must be very extensive, as it is said to occur not only in the East Indies, but in Arabia and Barbary. It certainly, however, does not inhabit Spain, as some have said. In tlle genus Lophyrus, Duméril, the scales of the body resemble those of
Agama, 
and the palisade-like ridge upon the back is even higher than in
Calotes.
The tail is compressed. To this genus belongs
Agama gigantca
of Khul, remarkable for the height of its crest above the neck. Two bony ridges continued from the muzzle terminate in a point on each side above the eye, and join upon the temples. It is a nati ve of India. In Lyriocephalus, Merrem, we find a species in which the bony crest above the eyes is even more marked than in the preceding, and terminates behind on each side in a sharp point. This strange reptile is found in Bengal and other parts of the East, and is said to live on grain. See Plate CCCCXXXL fig. 5.
The preceding generic groups, from Agama downwards, are all more or less allied to the
Agamœ
of Daudin. We now proceed to a brief consideration of certain genera, of which the relationship is more remote.
The genus Istiurus of Cuvier is distinguished by an elevated cutting crest, which extends to a portion of the tail, and is supported by the high spinal processes of the vertebræ. This crest is scaly like the rest of the body, and the scales of the abdomen and tail are small, and rather of a square form. There are no teeth on the palate, but those of the other parts of the mouth are strong, compressed, and w ithout dentation. The thighs bear a row of pores. The skin of the throat is loose, but does not form a dewlap. To this genus belongs that very remarkable animal the Amboyna lizard
(L. Amboinensis,
Gm.), first described by Valentyn, and afterwards with great accuracy and an excellent figure by Dr Albert Schlosser in 1768. The back is spined, but the regular ridge only commences at the base of the tail, over a portion of which it extends, like a broad upright fin. The head and neck are green, varied by transverse whitish undulations ; the back and tail
are brown, with a slight cast of blue or purple ; and the sides and abdomen are grayish, spotted by means of round white scales. It resides, according to Valentyn, in the vicinity of fresh waters, and is frequently observed on the banks of rising grounds as well as on the lowlier kinds of shrubs which vegetate near the water, but does not ascend the taller trees. When disturbed by the approach of man or beast, it instantly dives, and hides itself among the rocks or stones beneath the banks. When captured, it does not in any way defend itself, but seems stupified. It may be caught by a noose or snare, and its flesh is said to be white and sweet, although of a penetrating odour. It is highly esteemed as food by many, and is itself accustomed to prey both on insects and vegetable substances. It sometimes attains a length of nearly four feet.
The genus Draco, Linn., may be distinguished at a glance from all other Saurian reptiles, by the singular peculiarity of six false ribs, which, instead of conforming as usual to the shape of the body, extend from it at right angles, and supporting a produced portion of the skin, present the appearance of a pair of wings. They support the animal in the air, as it leaps from branch to branch, but have no propelling power, and so cannot raise it in the least degree. In relation to their other characters, these so-called dragons are of small size, and covered all over by imbricated scales, of which those on the tail and limbs are keeled. The tongue is fleshy, not very extensile, and slightly notched. Beneath the throat there is a long pointed dewlap, supported by the tail of the hyoid bone ; and on its sides are two others of smaller size, sustained by the horns of the same bone. The tail is long ; there is a small dentation on tlle nape of the neck ; and the thighs have no pores. Each jaw is furnished with four small incisor teeth, with a pair of long-pointed canines, and twelve triangular three-lobed grinders. The genus may be said to combine the scales and dewlaps of the Iguanas, with the head and teeth of the Stellions. See Plate CCCCXXXI. fig. 6.
All the known species of Draco inhabit the East Indies, and have derived their generic appellation from their supposed resemblance to the fictitious Dragons of antiquity. In all ages, and in most countries, the imagination of timid or fantastic men has produced a belief in the existence of fabulous beings, of monstrous forms and irresistible ferocity, which carried devastation into provinces, guarded the entrance to sacred places, or watched over “ sunless heaps” of hidden gold. The heroic history of Greece, and the darker superstitions of the Germanic people, are alike pervaded by these fond beliefs. “ Rendered celebrated,” says Lacépède, “ by the songs of Greece and Rome, the principal ornament of pious fables imagined in more recent times, conquered by heroes, and even by youthful heroines, who were contending for a divine law, and adopted by a second mythology, which placed tlle fairies on tlle throne of the enchantress of old, the Dragon became the emblem of the splendid actions of valiant knights, and has enlivened modem as it animated ancient poetry. Proclaimed by the severe voice of history, everywhere described, everywhere celebrated, everywhere dreaded ; exhibited under all forms, always clothed with tremendous power, and immolating his victims by a single glance ; transporting himself through the midst of clouds with the rapidity of lightning, dissipating the darkness of night by the terrific splendour of his glaring eyes, uniting the agility of the eagle, the strength of the lion, and the magnitude of the giant serpent ; sometimes presented under a human figure, endowed with an intelligence almost divine, and adored, even in our own days, in the great empires of the East,—the Dragon, in short, has been all in all, and everywhere to be found, except in nature.”
The existence of these animals has not been altogether discredited, even in modern times. About the middle of
