considerable influence in his circle. David was destined for the same line of business as his father ; and received, partly in England, and partly at a school in Holland, where he resided two years, such an education as is usually given to young men intended for the mercantile profession. Classical learning formed no part of his early instruction. He began to be confidentially employed by his father, in the business of the Stock Exchange, when he was only fourteen years of age. Neither then, however, nor at any subsequent period, was he wholly engrossed by the combinations and details of his arduous and difficult profession. From his earliest years he evinced a taste for abstract and general reasoning ; and manifested that determination to probe every subject of interest to the bottom, and to form bis opinion upon it according to the unbiassed conviction of his mind, which was always one of the distinguishing features of his character.
Mr Ricardo’s freedom and independence of mind did not accord with the prejudices of his father, who had been accustomed to subscribe, without investigation, to the opinions of his ancestors, on all questions connected with religion and politics, and who was desirous that his children should do the same. But this system of passive obedience, and blind submission to the dictates of authority, was quite repugnant to the principles of young Ricardo, who, at the same time that he never failed to testify the sincerest affection and respect for his father, found reason to differ from him on many important points, and to become a convert to the Christian faith.
Not long after this event, and shortly after he attained the age of majority, Mr Ricardo formed a union, productive of unalloyed domestic happiness, with Miss Wilkinson. Having, in consequence of this conduct, been entirely separated from his father, he was thrown wholly on his owr n resources, and commenced business for himself. At this important epoch of his history, the oldest and most respectable members of the Stock Exchange gave a striking proof of the esteem entertained by them for his talents and the integrity of his character, by voluntarily coming forward to support and assist him in his undertakings. His success exceeded the most sanguine expectations of his friends, and in a few years he realized an ample fortune.
“ The talent for obtaining wealth,” says a near relation of Mr Ricardo’s, from whose interesting account of his life we have borrowed these particulars, “ is not held in much estimation ; but perhaps in nothing did Mr Ricardo more evince his extraordinary powers, than he did in his business. His complete knowledge of all its intricacies; his surprising quickness at figures and calculation ; his capability of getting through, without any apparent exertion, the immense transactions in which he wτ as concerned ; his coolness and judgment, combined certainly with (for him) a fortunate tissue of public events, enabled him to leave all his contemporaries at the Stock Exchange far behind, and to raise himself infinitely higher, not only in fortune, but in general character and estimation, than any man had ever done before in that house. Such was the impression which these qualities had made on his competitors, that several of the most discerning among them, long before he had emerged into public notoriety, prognosticated, in their admiration, that he would live to fill some of the highest stations in the state.”@@1
According as his solicitude about his success in life declined, Mr Ricardo began to devote a greater portion of his time to scientific and literary pursuits. When about twenty-five years of age, he began to study some branches of mathematical science, and made considerable progress in chemistry and mineralogy. He fitted up a laboratory, formed a collection of minerals, and was one of the original members of the Geological Society. It is known, however, that he never entered warmly into the investigation of these sciences. They were not adapted to the peculiar cast of his mind ; and he abandoned them entirely, as soon as his attention was directed to the more congenial study of political economy.
Mr Ricardo is stated to have first become acquainted with the “Wealth of Nations” in 1799, while on a visit to Bath, where he had accompanied Mrs Ricardo for the benefit of her health. He was highly gratified by its perusal ; and it is most probable that the inquiries about wllich it is conversant continued henceforth to occupy a considerable share of his attention, though it was not till a later period that he became so exclusively occupied with their study.
Mr Ricardo first came before the public as an author in 1809. The rise in the market-price of bullion, and the fall of the exchange that had taken place that year, had excited a good deal of attention. Mr Ricardo applied himself to the consideration of the subject; and the studies in which he had been latterly engaged, combined with the experience which he had derived from the vast extent of his moneyed transactions, enabled him not only to perceive the true cause of the phenomena in question, but to trace and exhibit its practical bearing and real effect. When Mr Ricardo began this investigation, he had no intention of laying the result of his researches before the public. But having shown his manuscript to Mr Perry, then proprietor and editor of the Morning Chronicle, he was prevailed upon by him, though not without considerable difficulty, to consent to its publication, in the shape of letters, in that journal. The first of these letters appeared on the 6th of September, 1809. They made a considerable impression, and elicited various answers. This success, and the increasing interest of the subject, induced Mr Ricardo to commit his opinions upon it to the judgment of the public, in a more enlarged and systematic form, in the celebrated tract entitled “ The High Price of Bullion a Proof of the Depreciation of Bank Notes.” This tract led the way in the far-famed bullion controversy. It issued from the press several months previously to the appointment of the bullion committee ; and is believed to have had no inconsiderable effect in forwarding that important measure. In this tract Mr Ricardo showed that redundancy and deficiency of currency are only
relative
terms ; and that so long as the currency of a particular country consists exclusively of gold and silver coins, or of paper convertible into them, it is impossible that its value should either rise above or fall below the value of the currencies of other countries, by a greater sum than will suffice to defray the expense of importing foreign coin or bullion if the currency be deficient, or of exporting a portion of the existing supply if it be redundant. But when a country issues an inconvertible paper-money, as was then the case with England, it cannot be exported to other countries in the event of its becoming relatively redundant at home ; and whenever, therefore, the exchange with foreign states is depressed below, or the price of bullion rises above, its mint price, more than the expense of sending coins abroad, it is a conclusive proof that too much paper has been issued, and that its value is
depreciated from excess.
The principles which pervade the Report of the bullion committee are substantially the same with those which pervade Mr Ricardo’s pamphlet ; but the more comprehensive and popular manner in which they are illustrated in the Report, and their being recommended by a committee composed of some of the ablest members of the House of Commons, gave them a weight and authority which they could not otherwise have obtained. And though
@@@1 See an account
of
the Life of Mr Ricardo in the
Annugt Obituary
for 1823, supposed to be written bv one of his brcther‰
