or higher than 60. The average, however, gives the ratio of revenue to profit at 1 to .45. On the Dublin and Kingston railway the same ratio for 26½ months gives 1 to .4344. On the Brussels and Mechlin railway the ratio for 1 year is 1 to .488. On theGrandJunction railway,for6months,it is k.48. On the London and Birmingham, no data exist to form a judgment. There isa very singular coincidence intheseratios on lines so very differently circumstanced, and of lengths varying from six miles to more than 100 ; but we have not yet acquired any sufficient experience in railway statistics to enable us to speak with confidence on the subject. Ifevery railway would publish yearly its experience, as was so handsomely done in the Liverpool and Manchester for several years, analyzing every source of expense, and reducing them to the ratio per passenger and per ton per mile, we should then soon acquire such a stock of knowledge as would enable all these points to be decided ; indeed, of so much consequence are railways now becoming, that the legislature should take up the question, making it a law that returns should be sent yearly, according to a form arranged by some person thorougllly conversant with the subject.
When matters are so far advanced that the engineer can be directed to make out his plans and sections, he will commence by consulting the ordnance map, and by the help of that and his geological knowledge, obtained from the borings and trial shafts, together with his inspection of the wells, mines, quarries, and other excavatiohs in the immediate vicinity of the intended work, he will proceed to lay down at least three or four lines, if some local circumstances do notab-solutely limit him to one particular tract of country ; endeavouring to cross all streams and rivers as near their source as possible, that being the lowest point ; and where hills intersect his progress, aiming at some position where streams run down on either side in the direction as near as possible to his intended line. He should avoid going along the sides of hills, particularly if they are composed of clay or shale, in order to be clear of the unpleasant consequences which slips would give rise to in these strata. He should run through no more seats or ornamental pleasure grounds than possible, and avoid towns and villages where the land would be expensive. He should, as far as practicable, be furnished with lists of the population, the state of trade, and the numbers of the assenting and dissenting owners and occupiers of land, together with the quantity and value of their property. He should have the water analyzed with reference to its fitness for locomotive engines, inquiring into the state of the existing roads and canals, as to the facilities they afford for getting coke, building materials, &c. on to the line ; also whether lodgings can conveniently be had for large bodies of men, and whether the necessary labourers and mechanics can be procured at reasonable rates in the immediate vicinity of the line; and generally he should enter into all inquiries necessary to enable him to choose the best line, and construct it at the least cost.
In order to save time and expense, it will be quite sufficient if what are called rough or flying levels are taken of these preparatory lines, for which purpose the mountain barometer will be amply sufficient, if proper care be taken to apply the necessary corrections, and strict attention be paid to comparing it as often as possible, and at stated regular times, with a stationary standard barometer. Cross stations between the lines should likewise be taken, in order to ascertain the lowest point. The rates at which streams run will also assist in giving indications, and the ordnance map may be sufficient authority for distances. He should particularly attend to curves and gradients ; a curve of three-quarters of a mile radius, in conjunction with a rise of 16 feet in a mile, reducing the speed of a locomotive to nearly one-half. Where the gradient is good, curves are not of so much consequence. A curve of a quarter of a mile radius on the Bolton and Leigh railway is constantly passed
with safety at a speed of thirty miles an hour, but the wear of engines and carriages must be increased.
The whole question of gradients is only beginning to be understood ; and we have no doubt that at some future time railways will be made much more level than they now are. There is no reason why in many cases hydraulic locks should not be used to carry the trains upand down different levels, and to do away with the inclined planes. The practical effect of gravity is not well known. We have long had the angle of repose given as 1 in 280. This is correct with some carriages and waggons, but others differ extremely. Care must be taken where two planes meet that they are eased into each other if their difference is much. This is best done by laying a short piece of the line level. We have known an instance in which, at an inclination of 1 in 330, a waggon ran down 4 miles, and acquired a velocity of 8 miles an hour. The question is not at what angle a carriage will just become quiescent, but at what angle will a velocity be acquired which can have a useful practical effect. The Irish railway commissioners have taken this at 1 in 140 ; whilst on the London and Birmingham railway the Euston extension plane is for a considerable part of its length 1 in 75, the trains on it attaining a velocity of 30 miles an hour, and working remarkably well. It is unfortunate, too, that their classification of engines does not contain at all, those in use on that line. The third class is the nearest, but will give much too little as the power of those engines, which go 60 miles an hour up considerable inclined planes. The third class has 11-inch cylinders, 18-inch stroke and 5-feet wheels, the weight being, engine, 8½ tons, tender, 5½.
The principal difference between this class and the engines on the London and Birmingham railway is, that the latter have 5½-feet wheels and l2-inch cylinders. Taking, however, the above third-class engine, and allowing the friction of the engine gear to be 51 lbs., the friction of the engine on the railway 68 lbs., the friction of the tender 49⅜ lbs., and the atmospherical pressure upon the piston 190.06 inches, reduced in the inverse proportion of twice the stroke of the piston to the circumference of the working wheel, or 533½ lbs., we have a total absorbed power of 702 lbs. before the engine can move, or, which is the same thing, a steam pressure of702 lbs. is requisite for that purpose. Now the whole power being the area of the piston multiplied by the pressure, say 64.7 lbs., when the steam is at 50 lbs., we get for the whole power of the engine 2337 lbs., or the power to propel the load 1639 lbs., which, even with 9 lbs. per ton friction caused by the load, gives a fraction of 182 tons on a level.
Supposing a load of 88 tons, including the tender, on a level, to be drawn at the rate of 20 miles an hour, and that it has to ascendafterwardsa plane of 1 in 140, we have then the absorbed power =702 lbs. ; 88 tons at
9
lbs. per ton =792 lbs. or 1494 lbs. power of steam pressure required for this load on a horizontal plane. But when the train comes to the inclined plane, the weight of the engine has first to be added, making the load 100 tons, or 224000 lbs., and 1 ¼δ  of this, or 1600 lb., is the additional traction required, and taking every 8 lb. traction to cause 1 lb. additional friction on the engine gear, gives 200 lbs., therefore the whole power or steam pressure required is, up the plane, 3294 lbs., and the velocity being inversely as the pressure, we have 3294 : 1494=20 :9, or the velocity will be reduced to 9 miles an hour ; in other words, the time expended in ascending the inclined plane will be more than double that which would be required on an horizontal plane, but as the descending will be performed in the same time as if it was a horizontal plane, and as 1494 : 3294=1 : 2∙2, the equivalent length of the horizontal plane, the length of the ascending plane being unity, will be 2-2, and the average of the two will be 1∙6.
It is upon these data the Irish railway commissioners give tables of the lengths of equivalent horizontal lines to gra-
