Nevertheless, he lived in the utmost splendour ; most of the eminent masters of his time were ambitious of working under him ; and he never went out without a crowd of artists and others, who followed him purely from respect. He was not only the best painter in the world, but perhaps the best architect too, on which account Leo X. charged him with building St Peter’s church at Rome ; but he was too much addicted to pleasure, which occasioned his death at the early age of thirty-seven. See Painting.
RAPHAIM, or Rephaim, a name signifying
Giants,
as they really were, and an actual people too, situated in Ba-san or Batanea, beyond Jordan, and separated from the Zan-zummim by the river Jabbok. Thi⅛ is also the name of a valley near Jerusalem.
RÀPHANIDOSIS, a particular kind of punishment inflicted at Athens upon adulterers.
RAPIER, formerly signified a long old-fashioned sword, such as those worn by the common soldiers ; but it now denotes a small sword, as contradistinguished to a back-sword.
RAPIN, Rene, a Jesuit and eminent French writer, was born at Tours in 1621. He taught polite literature in the society of the Jesuits with great applause, and was justly esteemed one of the best Latin poets and greatest wits of his time. He died at Paris in the year 1687. His principal works were, 1. A great number of Latin poems, which have rendered him famous throughout all Europe, amongst which are his
Hortorum Iibri quatuor ;
2. Reflections on Eloquence, Poetry, History, and Philosophy ; 3. Comparisons between Virgil and Homer, Demosthenes and Cicero, Plato and Aristotle, Thucydides and Titus Livius ; 4∙. The History OfJansenism ; and, 5. Several works on religious subjects. The best edition of his Latin poems is that of Paris in 1723, in three vols, l2mo.
Rapin de Thoybas,
Paul de,
a celebrated historian, was the son of James de Rapin, lord of Thoyras, and was born at Castres in 1661. He was at first educated under a tutor in his father’s house, and afterwards sent to Puylaurens, and thence to Samur. In 1679 he returned to his father, with a design to apply himself to the study of the law, and was admitted an advocate ; but some time afterwards, reflecting that his being a Protestant would prevent·his advancement at the bar, he resolved to quit the profession of the law, and to apply himself to that of the sword. His father, however, would not consent to the change. The revocation of the edict of Nantes in 1685, and the death of his father, which happened two months afterwards, made him resolve to come to England ; but as he had no hopes of any settlement there, his stay was but short. He therefore went to Holland, and enlisted himself in the company of French volunteers at Utrecht, commanded by M. Rapin, his cousin-german. He attended the Prince of Orange into England in 1688 ; and the following year Lord Kingston made him an ensign in his regiment, with which he proceeded to Ireland, where he gained the esteem Ofhisofficers at the siege OfCarrickfergus, and soon received a lieutenant’s commission. He was present at the battle of the Boyne, and was shot through the shoulder at the siege of Limerick. He was soon afterwards made captain of the company in which he had been ensign ; but, in 1693, he resigned his company to one of his brothers, in order to become tutor to the Earl of Portland’s son. In 1699, he married Marianne Testard ; but this marriage neither abated his care of his pupil, nor prevented his accompanying him in his travels. Having finished this employment, he returned to his family, which he had settled at the Hague ; and there he continued some years. But as he found his family increase, he resolved to retire to some cheap country ; and accordingly removed, in 1707, to Wcse!, where he wrote his History of England, and some other works. Though he was of a strong constitution, yet seventeen ycars,  application, for so long was he engaged in composing his .great work, entirely ruined his health. He died in 1725.
Rapin wrote, in French, 1. A Dissertation on IheWhigsand Tories ; 2. His History of England, printed at the Hague in 1726 and 1727, in nine vols. 4to, and reprinted at Trevoux in 1728, in ten vols. 4to. This' last edition is more complete than that of tlle Hague. It has been translated into English, and improved with notes, by Mr Tindal, in two vols-folio. This performance, although the work of a foreigner, is deservedly esteemed as the fullest and most impartial collection of English political transactions extant.
RAPPERSCHWEIL, a small city of Switzerland,
in
the canton of St Gall. It is fortified, and has a citadel, but the defences are at present in bad repair. It is situated near the head of the lake of Zurich, over an arm of which there is perhaps the longest bridge in the world, being 4800 feet in length, and only twelve feet in breadth. It is built of wood, and has no rail or balustrade on either side, so that the first entrance upon it is rather terrific to travellers in a carriage. The town is old and ill built, but without the walls the suburbs are delightful, and the soil in its immediate vicinity is very fruitful. Some machinery for spinning cotton has of late been erected. The population is about 1550 persons, but rapidly increasing.
RAPPOLSTEIN, a town of France, in the department of the Upper Rhine, which, before the revolution, had the title of a barony. Long. 7. 28. E. Lat. 48. 15. N.
RAREE, a town of Hindustan, on the sea-coast of the province of Bejapoor, seventeen miles north by west from Goa. Long. 73. 30. E. Lat- 15. 50. N.
RAREFACTION, in
Physics,
the act by which a body is rendered rare ; that is, brought to occupy more room, or appear under a larger bulk, without accession of any new matter. This is very frequently the effect of heat, as has long been universally known. In many cases, however, philosophers have attributed it to the action of a repulsive principle. But, from the numerous discoveries concerning the nature and properties of the electric fluid and fire, there is the greatest reason to believe that this repulsive principle is no other than elementary fire.
RASAY, one of the Western Islands or Hebrides, is about thirteen miles in length and two in breadth. It has plenty of limestone and freestone, feeds great numbers of black cattle, but has neither deers, hares, nor rabbits. The only appearance of a'harbour in Rasay is at Clachan Bay, where the proprietor of the island resides. Rasay presents a bold shore, which rises to the height of mountains ; and here the natives have with incredible labour formed many little cornfields and potato-grounds. These heights decrease at the southern extremity, where there are some farms and a good-looking country.
RAS EL KHYMA,a town of Arabia, OnthePersianGulf, situated on a sandy peninsula, the isthmus of which is defended by a battery, while the Sea-line is also fortified by batteries of one gun each at regular intervals. It has a suburb of bamboo huts, roofed wr ith date-tree leaves.
RASK, Erasmus, an eminent scholar and philologist, was born at Brendekild, in the island of Fyen, in the year 1784. He studied at the university of Copenhagen, and early distinguished himself by his singular talent for the acquisition of languages. In the year 1808, he was appointed assistant keeper of the University Library, and some years afterwards made professor of Literary History. In 1811, he published, in the Danish language, his Introduction to the Grammar of the Icelandic and other Ancient Northern Languages, the materials of which were entirely derived from the immense mass of manuscript and printed works which had been accumulated by his predecessors in the same field of research. This grammar appears to have given a fresh impulse to the study of the ancient northern languages, even in Germany. The reputation which Rask acquired by it recommended him to the Arna-Magnæan Institution, by which he was employed as editor of the Icelandic Lexicon of Biorne Haldorsen,
