tsoua ln the eause of republicanism. No 
regard, howl ever, has been paid to it by the 
convention, 
which has declared itself permanent, nor indeed does it seem pos sible to carry it into execution. 
we have mentioned that Condé was invested from the beginning of April. It did not yield till thc loth of July, when the garrison was so much reduced by famine and disease, that out of 4000 men, of which it originally consisted, only 1500 were sit for service. The eyes of all Europe were in the mean time saxed upon the siege of Valenciennes. Colonel Moncrieff had contended, that batteries ought immediately to be placed under the walls without approaching it by regular parallels;; the Imperial engineer Mr Ferraris asserted, that the work of the great Vanban must be treated with more respect; and his opinion was adopted by the council of war. The trenches were opened on the 14th of June. Few sallies were attempted by the gar rison, on account of the smallness of their number. The inhabitants at sirst wished to surrender;; the violence of the bombardment prevented their assembling or giving much trouble on that head to General Ferrand the governor. Much of the labour of the siege consisted of mines and countermines. some of these having been successfully sprung by the allies, the town was surrendered on the 27th of July by capitula tion to the Duke of York, wlio took possession of it in behalf of the emperor of Germany. The siege of Mentz was at the same time going on. It sussered much from famine. At lass, after an unsuccessful at tempt by the French army on the Rhine for its relief, Mentz surrendered on the 2 2d of July. 
At the termination of the siege of Valenciennes it is said that the allied powers were at a loss how to pro ceed next. The Austrian commanders are said to have presented two plans : The sirst was to penetrate to pa ris by the assistance of the rivers which fall into the seine; the other was to take advantage of the conster nation occasioned·by the surrender of Valenciennes, and with 50, 000 light troops to penetrate suddenly to Paris, while a debarkation should be made n the coast of Brittany to assist thc royalists. The proposal of the British ministry was, however, adopted, which was, to divide the grand army, and to attack 
west 
Flanders, beginning with the siege of Dunkirk. This determination proved ruinous to the allies. The French found means to vanquish in detail that army, which they 1 could not encounter when united. 
It is said that the Duke of York was in secret cor respondence with Omeron the governor of Dunkirk; but he was removed before any advantage could be taken of his treachery. On the 24th of August the Duke of York attacked and drove the French outposts into the town, after an action in which the Austrian General Dalton was killed. A naval armament was expected from Great Britain to cooperate in the siege, but st did not arrive. In the mean time, a strong re publican force menaced the covering army of the allies, which was commanded by General Freytag. He was soon attacked and totally routed. The siege was raised. The British lost their heavy cannon and baggage, with several thousand men; and the convention, belie ving that their General Houchard could have cut off the Duke of york’s retreat, tried and executed him for this neglect of duty, 
Prince Cobourg and General Clairfait in the mean time unsuccesssully attempted to besiege Cambray and Boucliain. (Quesnoy was, however, taken by General Clairfait on the 1 ith of september; and here finally terminated for the present campaign the success of the allies in the Netherlands. 
A considerable part of the French army of the north took a strong position near Manbeuge, where they were blockaded by Prince Cobourg V but upon the 15th and 16th of October he was repeatedly at tacked by the French troops under General Jourdan, who succeeded Houchard. 'I he French had now re covered their vigour. They brought into the held a formidable train of artillery, in which were many 24 pounders. Commissioners from the convention harangued the soldiers, threatened the fearful, and applauded the brave. Crowds of women, without confusion, went through the ranks, distributing spirituous li quors in abundance, and carrying off the wounded, 'i'he attacks were repeated and terrible on both sides; but the Austrians had considerably the disadvantage, and Prince Cobourg retired during the night. 3 he French now menaced maritime Flanders. They took Furnes and besieged Nieuport. A detachment of British troops ready to fail to the west Indies were hastily sent to Ostesd, and prevented for the present the farther progress of the French. 
such was the multiplicity of the events that now oc curred in France, that it is difficult to state the out lines of them with any tolerable perspicuity. we have already mentioned the extensive dissensions that occurred throughout the republic in consequence of the tri umph of the Mountain party on the 3 ist of May. The department of Calvades was sirst inarms against the convention under the command of General Felix wimp fen; but before the end of July the insurrection was quieted, after a few slight skirmishes. But the fœdera lism of the cities of Marseilles, Lyons, and Toulon, still remained. Lyons was attacked on the 8th of August by the conventional troops. several actions followed, which were attended with great loss both on the part of the assailants and of the besieged. The city was re duced almost to ruins; but it held out during the whole month of september. The besieging General Kellerman was removed from his command, on account of his supposed inactivity; and the city surrendered on the 8th of October to General Doppet, a man who had lately been a phylieian. such was the rage of party zeal at this time, that the walls and public buildings of Lyons were ordered to be destroyed, and its name changed to that of 
Ville Affranchie. 
Many hundreds of its citizens were dragged to the scaffold 011 account of their alleged treasonable resiftance to the convention. The victorious party, wearied by the slow operation of the 
guillotine, 
at last destroyed their prisoners in multitudes, by firing grapeshot upon them. such indeed was the unrelenting character of the Mountain at this time, not only here but through the whole republic, that they themselves pretended not to excuse it, but declared that terror was with them 
the order of the day. 
In the end of July General Cartaux was sent against Marseilles. In the beginning of August he gained some successes over the advanced fœderalift troops. On the 24th he took the town of Aix, and the Marsellois 
