years . The tenant must also be made liable to be punished for committing waste; and the usual rent must be reserved, or, where there has usually been no rent, one third of the clear yearly value. The misfor 'tune is, that this act was made too late, after almost every valuable possession of the crown had been granted away for ever, or else upon very long leases; but may be of benefit to posterity, when those leases come to expire. 
6. Hither might have been referred the advantages which were used to arise to the king from the profits of his military tenures, to which inoft lauds in the kingdom were subject, till the statute 12 Car. II C 24. which in great measure abolished them au. Hither al so might have been referred the profitable prerogative of purveyance and preemption: : was a right en joyed by the crown of buying up provisions and other iiecessaries, by the intervention of the king’s purveyors, for the use of his royal household, at an appraised va iuatson, in preference to all others, and even without consent of the owner : and also of forcibly impressing the carriages and horses of the subject, to do the king’s business on the public roads, in the conveyance of tim ber, baggage, and the like, however inconvenient to the proprietor, upon paying him a settled price. A prerogative which prevailed pretty generally threugh out Europe during the scarcity of gold and silver, and the high valuation of money consequential thereupon. In those early times, the king’s household (as well as those of inferior lords) were supported by specisic ren ders of corn, and other victuals, from the tenants of the respective demesnes; and there was also a continual market kept at the palace gate to surnish viands for the royal use. And this answered all purposes, in those ages of simplicity, fo long as the king’s court conti nued in any certain place. But when it removed from one part of the kingdom to another (as was formerly very frequently done), it was found necessary to send purveyors beforehand, to get together a sufficient quantity of provisions and other necessaries for the house hold: and, lest the unusual demand should raise them to an exorbitant price, the powers beforementsoned were vested in 'these purveyors; who in process of time very greatly abused their authority, and became a great oppression to the subject, though of little advantage to the crown; ready money in open market (when the royal ressdence was more permanent, and specie began to be plenty) being found upon experience to be the best proveditor of any. wherefore, by degrees, the powers of purveyance have declined, in foreign coun tries as well as our own : and particularly were abolish ed in sweden by Gustavus Adolphus, towards the beginning of the last century. And, with us in England, having fallen into disuse during the fufpenlion of monarchy, King Charles, at his resloration, consented, by the same statute, to ressgn entirely those branches of his revenue and power: and the parliament, in part cf recompense, settled on him, his heirs, and successcrs, for ever, the hereditary excise of iyd. per barrel on all beer and ale sold in the kingdom, and a proportionable film for certain other liquors. so that this hereditary txcise now forms the ssxth branch of his majestysa or stinary revenue. 
7. A seventh branch might 
also be computed to have 
arisen from wine licences; or the rents payable to the crown by such persons as are licensed to sell wine by retail throughout Britain, except in a sew privileged places. These were sirst settled on the crown by die statnte 12 Car. II C 25. and, together with the hereditary excise, made up the equivalent in value for the loss sustained by the prerogative in the abolition of the military tenures, and the right of preemption and purveyance : but this revenue was abolished by the sta tute 30 Geo. II C 19· und an annual sum of upwards of L 7000 
per annum, 
issuing out of the new stamo duties imposed on wine licences, was settled on the crown in its stead. 
8. An eighth branch of the king’s ordinary revenue is usually reckoned to conssst in the profits arising from his forests. see Forest. These consist principally in the amercements or fines levied for offences against the foreshlaws. But as few, if any, courts of this kind for levying amercements have been held since 1632, 8 Char. I. and as, from the accounts given of the pro ceedings in that court by our histories and law books, nobody would wish to see them again revived, it is needless to pursue this inquiry any farther. 
9. The profits arising from the king’s ordinary courts of justice make a ninth branch of his revenue. And these consist not only in fines imposed upon offenders, forfeitures of recognizances, and amercements levied upon defaulters; but alsu in certain fees due to the crown in a variety of legal matters, as, for setting the great seal to charters, original writs, and other forensic proceedings, and for permitting fines to be levied of lands in order to bar entails, or otherwise to insure their title.. As none of these can be done without the immediate intervention of the king, by himself or his officers, the law allows him certain perquisites and pro fits, as a recompense for the trouble he undertakes for the public. These, in process of time, have been al rnost all granted out to private persons, or else appropriated to certain particular uses : so that, thouosh our law proceedings are still loaded with their payment, very little of them is now returned into the king s exchequer; for a part of whose royal maintenance they were originally mtended. All future grants of them, however, by the statute 1 Ann. st. 2. C 7. are to endure for no longer time than the prince’s life who grants them. 
10. A tenth branch of the king's ordinary revenue, said to be grounded on the consideration of his guard, ing and protecting the seas. from pirates and robbers, is the right to 
royalfijh, 
which are whale andsturgeon: and these, when either thrown ashore, or caught near the coasts, are the property of the king, on account of their superior excellence. Indeed, our ancestors seem to have entertained a very high notion of the importance of this right; it being the prerogative of the kings of Denmark and the dukes of Normandy j and from one of these it was probably derived to our princes. 
11. Another maritime revenue, and founded partly upon the same reason, is that of shipwrecks. see wreck. 
12. A twelfth branch of the royal revenue, the right to mines, has its original from the king’s prerogative of coinage, in order to supply him with materials; and 
