more elevated form in the middle than any other rays, but grows thin towards the edges. The nose is very sharp pointed, but short; the mouth small, and filled with granulated teeth. The irides are of a gold colour: behind each eye the orifice is very large. The tail is very thick at the beginning : the spine is placed about a third the length of the former from the body; is about five inches long, flat on the top and bottom, very hard, sharp pointed, and the two sides thin, and closely and sharply bearded the whole Way. The tail extends four inches beyond the end of this spine, and grows very sleader at the extremity. These sish are observed to shed their spine, and renew them annually; sometimes the new spine appears before the old one drops off; and the Cornish call this species 
cardinal trilost, 
or 
three tailed, 
when so circumstanced. The colour of the upper part of the body is a dirty yellow, the middle part of an ob scure blue : the lower side white, the tail and spine dus ky. The weapon with which nature has almed this sish, hath supplied the ancients with many tremendous fables relating to it. Pliny, Ælian, and Oppian, have given it a venom that affects even the inanimate creation : trees that are struck by it instantly lose their verdure and perish, and rocks themselves are incapable of refilling the potent poison. The enchantress Circe armed her ion with a spear headed with the spine of the trygon, as the moil irresistible weapon she could furnish him witlj,; and with which he afterwards committed parricide, unintentionally, on his father Ulysses. That spears and darts might, in very early times, have been headed with this bone instead of iron, we have no kind of doubt; that of another species of this sish being still used to point the arrows of some of the south American Indians, and is, from its hardness, sharpness, and beards, a most dreadful weapon. But in respect to its venomous qualities, there is not the least credit to be given to the opinion, though it was believed (as far as it affected the animal world) by Rondeletius, aldro vand, and others, and even to this day by the sishermen in several parts of the kingdom. It is in fact the wea pon of offence belonging to the sish, capable of giving a very bad wound, and which is attended with dangerous symptoms when it falls on a tendinous part or on a person in a bad habit of body. As to any sish having a spine charged with actual poison, it seems very dubious, though the report is sanctisied by the name of Linnæus. He instances the 
pajlitiaca, 
the 
torpedo, 
and the 
tetrodon lineatus. 
The first is incapable of conveying a greater injury than what results from the mere wound; the second, from its electric effluvia; and the third, by imparting a pungent pain like the sting of nettles, occasioned by the minute spines on its abdomen. 
RAI ΑΝΙΑ, in botany : A genus of the alexandria order, belonging to the dioecia class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 11th order, 
samentaceœ. 
The male calyx is sexpartite; there is no corolla. The female calyx as in the male, without any corolla; there are three styles; the fruit is roundish with an oblique wing, inferior. There are three species, the hastata, cordata, and quinquefolia. 
RAIETEA, one of the south sea islands, named also Ulietea. 
RAIL, in ornithology. see Rallus. 
RAILLERY, according to Dr Johnson, means slight satire, or satirical merriment; and a beautiful wri ter of the 
last 
century compares it to a light which dazzles, and which does not burn. It is sometimes in nocent and pleasant, and it should always be so, but it is most frequently offensive. Raillery is of vanous kinds; there is a serious, severe, and good-humoured raillery; and there is a kind which perplexes, a kind which offends, and a kind which pleases. 
To rally well, it is absolutely necessary that kindness run through all you say; and yon muff ever preserve the character of a friend to support your pretensions to be free with a man. Allusions to past follies, hints to revive what a man lias a mind to forget for ever, should never be introduced as the subjects of raillery. This is not to thrust with the skill of fencers, but to cut with the barbarity of butchers. But it is below the character of men of humanity and good breeding to be capable of mirth, while there is any in the company in pain and disorder. 
RAIN, the descent of water from the atmosphere in the form of drops of a considerable size. By this circumstance it is distinguished from dew and fog : in the former of which the drops are so small that they are quite invisible; and in the latter, though their size is larger, they seem to have very little more specisic gravity than the atmosphere itselsp and may therefore be reckoned hollow spherules rather than drops. 
It is universally agreed, that rain is produced by the water previously absorbed by the heat of the fun, or otherwise, from the terraqueous globe, into the atmo spliere; but very great difficulties occur when we begin to explain why the water, once so closely united with the atmosphere, begins to separate from it. we cannot ascribe this separation to cold, since rain often takes place in very warm weather; and though we should suppose the condensation owing to the superior cold of the higher regions, yet there is a remarkable fact which will not allow us to have recourse to this supposition. It is certain that the drops of rain increase in size con siderably as they descend. On the top of a hill, for in stance, they will be small and inconsiderable, forming only a drizzling shower; but at the bottom of the same hill the drops will be excessively large, descending in an impetuous rain; which shows that the atmosphere is disposed to condense the vapours, and actually does so, as well where it is warm as where it is cold. 
For some time the suppositions concerning the cause of rain were exceedingly insufficient and unsatisfac tory. It was imagined, that when various conge ries of clouds were driven together by the agitation of the winds, they mixed, and run into one body, by which means they were condensed into water. The eoldnefs of the upper parts of the air also was thought to be a great means of collecting and condensing the clouds into water; which, being heavier than the air, must necessarily fall down through it in the form of rain. The reason why it falls in drops, and not in large quantities, was said to be the resiffance of the air; whereby being broken, and divided into smaller and smaller parts, it at last arrives to us in small drops. But this hypothesis is entirely contrary to almost all the phenomena : for the weather, when coldest, that is, in the time of severe fioft, is generally the most serene; the most violent rains also happen where there is little or no cold to condense the clouds; and the drops of rain, instead of being divided into smaller and smaller ones as they approach the earth, are plainly increased in size as they descend. 
