manded loudly the regimental 
accounts. They seized 
at the same time the military chest, and sent a deputa tion to state their case at Paris to the national assembly. But the officers were beforehand, and prepoffessed the minister of war against them; upon whose representation a decree was passed, authorising the commander in chief of the province, M. Bouille, to reduce the insurgents by force. This was no sooner known, than the national guard of Nancy assembled, and sent 
a 
deputation to give a fair statement of facts. But Bouille, without waiting the result of an explanation, hastened to Nancy at. the head of all the troops he could sudden 
IV 
collect; and having fallen upon the regiments of Chateauvieux and Mestre de Camp, after putting an immense multitude to the sword, he took 4.00 prisoners. 
The king’s regiment was prevented from acting against Bouille by thc intrepidity of a young officer of the name 
desst/es, 
who, however, died of the wounds w hich he received on the occasion. Tile news of these events filled Paris with indignation. The assembly afterwards reverscd its own decrees against thc insnrgents at Nancy. Public honours were decreed to the memory of Deffillcs; but Bouille could not be punished, because he had only acted in obedience to authority. 
M. neckar’s popularity had been gradually declining, as he was unwilling to go all the lengths that the ruling party wished. He gave in his resignation on the 4th of september, and speedily thereafter left the kingdom. He was regretted by no party. He was regarded, on the one side, as having conducted the kingdom to its ruin, by the concessions which he originally advised the king to make in favour of the 
tiers etat; 
while he was despised by the opposite party as a lukewarm politician, of narrow views, and a feeble mind. He departed, however, with thé unblemished reputation of strict integrity. M. Neckar does not seem to have penetrated deeply into the characters of men, or to have had any conception of the effects of that terrible and restless energy which is called forth in a nation which attempts to make important changes in its ancient manners and government. Having no conception of the important era which was about to open upon that country of which he was the minister, lie was sar from being qualified to direct or control it amidst the convulsions which it was destined to encounter. Unable to brook thc loss of his popularity, he peevishly retired to swisserland, where he published a work, which shows to the conviction of every unprejudiced reader the integrity of the French king, and the wicked projects of the leading democrates, whom he himself had armed with power. 
The remaining part of tin’s year was occupied in attempts to introduce some degree of subordination into the navy of France, which had been much disorganised, and in farther regulating the affairs of the clergy. It was now declared, that such clergymen as should not take the foliowing oath, which had been prescribed some months before, shsuld be considered as ejected from their benefices : " To watch carefully over the faithful in the parish or diocese which was entrusted to 
Isis 
care; to be faithsul to the nation, the law, and the king; and to maintain to the utmost of his power the new constitution of France, and particularly the decrees 
relative to 
thc civil 
constitution of the clergy.” This 
decree rendered the situation of conscientious 
men etu 
tremely perplexing; especialiy as the pope testisied in marked terms his disapprobation of the oath. The people were reduced to the dilemma of dhoosing be tween their new political and their old religious preju dsces, and the result was extremely unfavourable to the interest of religion. 
The assembly commenced the new year with a decree, announcing the termination of its session, which was to take place as soon as it should have finished the discuf· lion of a list of constitutioual articles. In the mean time, on the side of Germany, spain, Italy, and savoy, hostile appearances began to be exhibited, and bodies of troops advanced around the French frontier. 
The 
Emperor Leopold was, however, too cautious to announce his intentions; and the King soon communica ted a letter from him, containing protestations of amicable dispositions, but addin<r, that " the innovations occasioned by the decrees of the 4th of August ought to b.c. done away.” The King treated this merely aan official measure on the part of the Emperor, that he might not appear to renounce the claims of certain German princes connected with Lorraine and Alsace. But the assembly expressed some alarm, and voted an augmentation of the national force. About this period. several new efforts were made by the disaffected clergy in various parts of the kingdom to excite disturbances, which it is unnecessary to mention in detail. On the 20th of February the public attention was roused by a circumstance that in any other state of affairs would have been accounted unimportant. The King announced to the assembly, that his aunts, the daughters of Louis 
XV 
had that morning left Paris; but as hc did not appre hend that the existing laws laid them under any restraint in this respect, he had not opposed their departure. Aster some debate,, the assembly agreed that the King had judged well; and these princesses were left to pursue their journey to Rome, which they reached after some delays occasioned by the jealousy of certain municipalities through which they passed. Thus the kingdom was gradually deserted by every branch of the royal family, excepting the King and his eldest brother Monsieur. s he assembly, however, continued its ia bours with considerable quietnesa. In the end' of the month of March died the celebrated M. de Mirabeau, at the age of 42 years; a man whose integrity has for many good reasons been much suspected, but whose political address and intrepidity, and whose splendid powers of eloquence, have been seldom equalled. He received from his countrymen at his death marks of respect 
unparalleled in modern history. During his short illness, his door was bcsieged by anxious citizens. a mourning of eight days was dccreed by the assembiy, and also a grand procession, which, was attendcd by all the public functionaries. He was the first who"was· interred in the new magnificent Pantheon, consecrated to the reception of the remains of illustrious men. But his ashes were afterwards removed, in consequence of very clear proofs that he had not been incorruptible by money. 
During the whole of thisspring, much fear was en tertained that some attempts at a counter revolution were about to be made. The emigrant army assembled on the borders of Alsace was reviewed by the prince of Condé. Their uniform was black, faced with yellow, 
