nerally towards the spring, in little clumps or patches, three, four, or five roots in each, putting them in either with a dibble or trowel, two or three inches deep, and three or four asunder in each patch, and the patches from about three to five or ten feet distance, placing them rather forward in the border. 
Propagation. 
All the varieties of the Asiatic ranunculus propagate abundantly by off sets from the root, and new varieties are gained by seed. — 
I. 
By off sets. The time for separating the off sets is in summer when the flower is past, and the leaves and stalks are withered : then taking up all the roots in dry weather, sepa rate the off sets from each main root, and alter drying the whole gradually in some shady airy room, put them up in bags till the autumn and spring seasons of planting; then plant them as before, placing all the off sets in separate beds : many of them will blow the first year, but in the second they will all flower in good persec tion. — 2. By seed. save a quantity of seed from the finest semi double flowers, and sow it either in August, or in March, or April, though, to save trouble of winter covering, some prefer the spring : it should be lowed in light rich mould, either in pots or in an east border, drawing very shallow flat drills five or six inches asunder, in which sow the seeds thinly, and cover them lightly with earth, giving frequent refreshments of water in dry weather, and in a month or six weeks the plants will rise with small leaves; observing to continue the light waterings in dry weather, to preserve the soil xnoist during their fummer’s growth to increase the size of the roots; and in June when the leaves decay, take up the roots and preserve them till the season for plant ing, then plant them in common beds, as before di rected, and they will flower the spring following, when all the doubles of good properties should be marked, and the Angles thrown away. 
The juice of many species of ranunculus is so acrid as to raise blisters on the skin, and yet the roots may be eaten with safety when boiled. 
rapacious animals, 
are such as live upon 
prey. 
RAPE, in law, the carnal knowledge of a woman forcibly and against her will. This, by the Jewish law, was punished with death, in case the damsel was be trothed to another man : and, in case she was not betrothed, then a heavy fine of fifty shekels was to be paid to the damsel’s father, and she was to be the wife of the ravisher all the days of his life; without that power of divorce, which was in general permitted by the mo saic law. 
The civil law punishes the crime of ravishment with death and confiscation of goods: under which it includes both the offence of forcible abduction, or taking away a woman from her friends; and also the present offence of forcibly dishonouring her; either of which, without the other, is in that law sufficient to constitute a capital crime. Also the stealing away a woman from her parents or guardians, and debauching her, is equaliy penal by the emperor’s edict, whether she consent or is forced. And this, in order to take away from women every opportunity of offending in this way; whom the ro man laws suppose never to go astray without the southeast duction and arts of the other sex; and therefore, by restraining and making so highly penal the felicitations of the men, they meant to secure effectually the honour of the women. But our English law does not entertain quite such sublime ideas of the honour of either sex, as to lay the blame of a mutual fault upon one of the transgressors only; and therefore makes it a necese fary ingredient in the crime of rape, that it must be against the woman’s wih. 
Rape was punished by the saxon laws, particularly those of king Athelstan, with death; which was also agreeable to the old Gothic or scandinavian constitu tion. But this was afterwards thought too hard : and in its stead another severe, but not capital, punishment was inflicted by william the Conqueror, viz. castration and loss of eyes; which continued till after Bracton wrote, in the reign of Henry III But in order to prevent malicious accusations, it was then the law, (and, it seems, still continues to be so in appeals of rape), that the woman should, immediately after, go to the next town, and there make diseovery to some credible persons of the injury she has suffered; and afterwards should acquaint the high constable of the hundred, the coroners, and the sheriff, with the outrage. This seems to correspond in some degree with the laws of scotland and Arragon, which require that complaint must be made within 24 hours : though afterwards by statute westm. 
I. 
C 13. the time of limitation in eng land was extended to 40 days. At present there is no · time of limitation fixed: for, as it is usually now punished by indictment at the fuit of the king, the maxim of law takes place, that " nullum tempus occurrit regi but the jury will rarely give credit to a stale complaint. During the former period also it was held for law, that the woman (by consent of the judge and her parents) might redeem the offender from the execution of his sentence, by accepting him for her husband;; he also ■ was willing to agree to the exchange but not otherwise. 
In the 3 Edw. I. by the ftatuté Westm. r. C 13. the punishment of rape was much mitigated : the of -- fence itself, of ravishing a damsel within age, (that is, twelve years old) either with her consent or without, or of any other woman against her will, being reduced to a trespass,. if not prosecuted by appeal within 40 days, and subjecting the offender only to two years imprison ment, and a fine at the king’s will But this lenity being productive of the most terrible consequences, it was, in ten years afterwards, 13 Edw. I. found necessary to make the offence of forcible rape felony by statute westm. 2. C 34. And by statute 18 Eliz. C 7. it is made felony without benefit of clergy : as is also the abominable wickcdness of carnally knowing or abusing any woman child under the age of ten years; in which case the consent or non consent is immaterial, as by reason of her tender years she is incapable of judgement and discretion. sir Matthew Hale is indeed of opinion, that such profligate actions committed on an infant under the age of twelve years, the age oi female discretion by the common-law, either with or without consent, amount to rape and felony; as well since as before the statute of queen Elizabeth : but that law has in general been held only to extend to infants under ten; though it should seem that damsels between ten and twelve are still under the protection of the statute westm. 1. the lav with respect to their seduction not having been al tered by either of the subsequent statutes. 
A 
male infant, under the age. of fourteen years, is 
