open offence. The Emperor even prohibited all assemblages of emigrants within his states; and the King intimated to the Assembly that he had declared to the Elector of Treves, that unless the emigrants should cease before the 15th of January to make hostile preparations within his territories, he would be considered as the enemy of France. All this, however, did not preserve the court from suspicion; for although the diffe rent foreign courts had openly declared pacific inten tions, yet the French emigrants boldly asserted, that all Europe was actually arming in their favour. Accordingly they ceased not to solicit their equals in rank, wlio still remained within the country, to leave it to îoin with them in what they called the 
royal cause. — 
The unhappy Louis, placed between a republican party that was gradually gathering strength, and an aristocratical party that was rousing Europe to arms against a nation of which he was the constitutional chief, and a combination of Princes justly suspected of wishing to seize upon a part of his dominions, stood in .a situation which would have perplexed the most skilful statesman; and it is no proof of incapacity that he sell a sacrifice to circumstances which might have overwhelmed any known measure of human ingenuity. Addresses were crowding into the Assembly, disapproving the conduct of the court. M. Montmorin resigned; M. Delessart succeeded him; and M. Caluer de ger villc became minister of the interior. M. du Portail resigned also, and M. Narbonne succeeded him as ml nister of war. In the month of November, M. bailly’s mayoralty terminated; and the once popular Lafayette appeared as a candidate to succeed him. But he was successfully opposed by M. Petion, a violent Jacobin, and a declared republican, who was elected mayor of Paris by a great majority. 
At this period the moderate men, who were friends of the constitution, attempted to counteract the influence of the Jacobin club by the establishment of a si milar one. It derived its name from the vacant convent of the 
Feudlans, 
111 which lt assembled. st he most active members of the Constituent Assembly belonged to it, such as Μ. M. D’ Andre, Barnave, the Lametbs, Du Port, Rabaud, sieyes, Chapelier, Thouret, la board, Taleyrand, Montesquieu, Beaumetz, c. The Jacobins contrived to excite a riot at the place of their meeting, which was in the vicinity of the hall of the National Assembly. This afforded a pretext for ap plying to the Assembly for the removal of the new clilb. The A ssembly showed their disposition, by complying with this requeftt 
At the end of this year, the kingdom of France was by no means prosperous. The public revenue had fallen far short of the expenditure. The emigrant no bility had carried out of the kingdom the greater part of the current coin, and a variety of manufacturers, who depended upon their ostentatious luxury, were re duced to much distress. The dispositions of foreign courts appeared very doubtful. The new year, how ever, opened with delusive prospects of tranquillity. — The German Princes appeared satisfied with the mode of compensation which the French had offered for the loss of their possessions in Alsace and Lorraine. The Prince of Lowestein accepted of an indemnification. — The Princes of Hohenlohe and salm salm declared themselves ready to treat upon the same terms. Prince 
Maximilian, and the Dukes of wirtemberg and Deux ponts, freely negotiated. It is unnecessary to state in detail the subterfuges employed, in the mean time, by the crafty Leopold, for amusing the French with the appearances of peace. M. Delessart, minister for fo reign affairs, fell a sacrisice to them, and probably to the undecided character of Louis. He was accused by M. Briffot of not having given timely notice to the National Assembly of the dispositions of foreign powers, and of not pressing proper measures for securing the ho nour and safety of the nation. A decree of accusation passed against him in his ab fence. He was apprehend ed, tried by the high national court at Orleans, and executed in consequence of its sentence. ' 
The sudden death of Leopold on the sirst of March gave rise to a transient hope that peace might still be preserved. A suspicion of poison sell upon the French, but it was removed by the detail of his disease that was speedily piiblished. On the 16th of the same month, the King of sweden was wounded by a nobleman of the name of Ankerstrom, ftnd died on the 29th. This enterprising Prince had overturned the constitution of his own country, and he had formed the project of con ducting in person his troops to the frontiers of France, and of commanding or accompanying the combined ar mies of Europe in their attempt to avenge the cause of insulted royalty. It was in a great measure to counter act this seheme that he was assaffinated. 
The sudden fall, however, of these two enemies rather accelerated than retarded the meditated hostilities. The young King of Hungary, who succeeded to the empire, made no secret either of his own intentions or of the existence of a 
concert of Princes 
against France. M. Dumourier was now at the head of the war office, M. Rolland was minister of the interior, and M. cla viere minister of finance. The Jacobins were all powerful. The Court gave way to the torrent. The property of the emigrants was consiseated, reserving the rights of creditors. The Imperial minister, Prince Kaunitz, demanded three things of France; 
lst, 
Tile restitution of their feudal rights to the German Princes; 
zdly, 
To restore Avignon to the Pope, the inhabitants of which had sometime before thrown off their allegiance, and prevailed with the Constituent Assembly to receive their country as a part of France; and 
lastly, 
Prince Kaunitz demanded, that " the neighbouring powers should have no reason for apprehension from the present weakness of the internal government of France.” On receiving these demands, the king proposed a decla ration of war, which was decreed by the National Ase sembly on the 20th of April, against 
the King of Hungary and Bohemia. 
The French immediately began the war, by attack ing in three different columns the Austrian Netherlands. M. Theobald Dillon advanced from Hile to Tournay, where he found a strong body of Austrians ready to receive him. The national troops, unaccustomed to sustain the sire of regular soldiers, were instantly thrown into confusion, and fled even to the gates of Lisle. The cry of 
treason 
resounded on all sides; and their com. mander, an experienced and faithful officer, was murdered by bis own soldiers and the mob. A second division of 10, 000 men, under Lieutenant-general Birofi, took possession of Quiverain on the 29th, and marched towards Mons, General Biron was here attacked hy 
