versaries , by way of contempt. Their fate was very severe, being persecuted with unparalleled fury; and though many princes of the blood, and of the sirst nobility, had embraced their sentiments, yet in no part of the world did the reformers suffer so muchf. At Iast all commotions were quelled by the fortitude and magi nanimity of Henry IV who in the year 1598 granted all his subjects full liberty of conscience by the famous Edict of Nantes, and seemed to have thoroughly established the reformation throughout his dominions. During the minority of Louis XIV however, this edict was revoked by Cardinal Mazarine, since which time the Protestants have often been cruelly persecuted; nor was the profession of the reformed religion in France at any time fo safe as in most other countries of Europe. see Revolution. 
In the other parts of Europe the opposition to the church of Rome was but faint and ambiguous before the diet of Augshurg. Before that period, however, it appears from undoubted testimony, that the doctrine of Luther had made a considerable, though probably secret, progress through spain, Hwngaly, Bohemia, Britain, Poland, and the Netherlands; and had in all these countries many friends, of whom several repaired to wittemberg, in order to enlarge their knowledge by means of luther’s conversation. some of these countries threw off the Romish yoke entirely, and in others a prodigious number of families embraced the principles of the reformed religion. 'It is certain in deed, and the roman catholics themselves acknowledge it without hesitation, that the Papal doctrines and authority would have fallen into ruin in all parts of the world at once, had not the force of the secular arm been employed to support the tottering edifice. In the Netherlands particularly, the most grievous persecutions took place, so that by the emperor Charles V upwards of 100, 000 were destroyed, while still greater cruelties were exercised upon the people by his son Philip II The revolt of the United Provinces, however, and motives of real policy, at last put a stop to these furiouä proceedings; and, though in many provinces of the Netherlands, the establishment of the Popish religion was still continued, the Protestants have been long free of the dangei of persecution on account of their principles. 
The reformation made a considerable progress in spain and Italy soon after the rupture between Luther and the Roman pontiff. In ail the provinces of Italy, but more especially in the territories of Venice, Tuscany, and Naples, the superstition of Rome lost ground, and great numbers of people of all ranks ex pressed an aversion to the Papal yoke. This occasion. ed violent and dangerous commotions in the kingdom cf Naples in the year 1546; which, however, were at last quelled by the united efforts of Charles V and his viceroy Don Pedro di Toledo. In several places the pope put a stop to the progress of the reformation, by letting lose the inquisitors; who spread dreadful marks f their barbarity through the greattst part of Italy. These formidable ministers of superstition put so many to death, and perpetrated such horrid acts of cruelty and oppression, that most of the reformed consuhed their safety by a voluntary exile, while others returned to the religion of Rome, at least in external appearance. 'But the inquisition, which frighted into the profession 
of 
Popery several Protestants in other parts of Italy, 
could never 
make its way into thc 
kingdom of Naples; nor could either the authority or entreaties of the pope engage the Neapolitans to admit even visiting in quisitors. 
In spain, several people embraced the Protestant religion, not only from the controverstes of Luther, but even from those divines whom Charles V had brought with him into Germany in order to refute the doctrines of Luther. For these doctors imbibed the pre tended heresy instead of refuting it, and propagated it more or left on their return home. But the inqui sition, which could obtain no footing in Naples, reigned triumphant in spain, and by the most dreadful methods frightened the people back into Popery, and suppreffed the desire of exchanging their superstition for a more rational plan of icligion. It was indeed presumed that Charles himself died 
a 
Protestant; and it seems to be certain, that, when the approach of death had dissipated those schemes of ambition and grandeur which had so long blinded him, his fentimeuts became much more rational and agreeable to Christianity than they had ever been. All the ecclesiastics who had attended him, as soon as he expired, were sent to the inquisition, and committed to the flames, or put to death by some other method equally terrible. such was the fate of Augustine Casal, the emperor’s preacher; of Constantine Pontius, his confessor; of Egidius, whom he had named to the bishopric of Tortosa; of bar tholomew de Caranza, a Dominican, who had been confessor to King Philip and (Queen Mary; with 20 others, of less note. 
In England, the principles of the reformation began to be adopted as soon as an account of luther’s doctrines could be conveyed thither. In that kingdom there were still great remains of the sect called loz 
lards, 
whose doctrine resembled that of Luther; and among whom, of consequence, the sentiments of our reformer gained great credit. Henry VIII king of England at that time was a violent partisan of the church of Rome, and had a particular veneration for the writings of Thomas Arjuinas. Being informed that Luther spoke of his favourite author with con tempt, he conceived a violent prejudice against the reformer, and even wrote against him, as we have already observed. Luther did not hesitate at writing against his majesty, overcame him in argument, and treated him with very little ceremony. The first step towards public reformation, however, was not taken till the year 1529. Great complaints had been made in eng land, and of a very ancient date, of the usurpations of the clergy; and by the prevalence of the Lutheran opinions, these complaints were now become more general than before. The House of Commons, finding the occasion favourable, passed several bills, restraining the irnpositions of the clergy : but what threatened the ecclesiastical order with the greatest danger were thc severe rt proaches thrown out almost without opposition in the house against the dissolute lives, ambition, and avarice of the priests, and their continual encroach ments on the privileges of the laity. The bills for regulating the clergy met with opposition in the House of Lords; and bishop Fisher imputed them to want of faith in the Commons, and to a formed design, pro ceeding from heretical and Lutheran principles, of robbing the church of her patrimony, and overturning the 
national religion. 
The Commous, however, complain 
