army was above 50, 000 strong. General Clairfait bad joined him with 15, 000 Austrians, and a considerable body of Hessians, along with 20, 000 French emigrants; amounting in all to 90, 000 men. To oppose these, Dumourier had only j 7, 000 men collected near the point from which thc enemy were approaching in i^uxemboulg. The French emigrants had given the duke of Brunswick such an account of the diffracted state of their own country, and of the pretended disaf fection of ail orders of men towards the ruling faction in Paris, that no resistance of any importance was expected. when the combined troops, consisting either of steady Austrian or Hungarian battalions, or of tliofe well disciplinecl Prussians which the great Frederick had inured to the best military discipline, were reviewed in Germany before setting out on their march, it is said that the spectators, among whom the French canse was not unpopular, beheld them with anxiety and regret, and pitied the unhappy country against which this irresistible force was directed. The soldiers and their officers regarded themselves as departing for a hunting match, or an e xcursion of pleasure; and many of the usual accommodations of an army were ill attended to, such as hospitals, c. The beginning of their progress into France justisied these expectations. long wy surrendered after a siege of 
15 
hours, although well fortified, possessed of a garrison of 3500 men, and defended by 71 pieces of cannon. The news of this event irritated the assembly fo much, that they decreed; that, when retaken, the houses of the citizens should be razed to the ground; and,, distruftful of the officers of the army, they decreed that the municipal officers of a town should hereafter have power to control the de liberations of the council of war. Verdun was next summoned; and here the municipality compelled the governor M. Bèaurepiare to surrender. That officer, disappointed and enraged, shot himself dead with a pi stol in presence of the council, and on the 2d of sep tember the Prussian troops entered the town. 
The news of this second capture, and of the ap p roach of the Prussians, spread an sussant alarm through Paris. It was proposed to raise a volunteer army, which should set out immediately to meet the enemy. The common council, which was now led by Robespierre, Danton, Marat, and others of the most sanguinary character, ordered the alarm guns to be fired, and the populace to be summoned to meet in the Champ de Mars to enrol themselves to march against the enemy. The people assembled, and either in consequence of a premeditated plan, or, which is not very probable, of an instantaneous movement, a number of voices exclaimed, that " the domestic foes of the na tion ought to be destroyed before its foreign enemies were attacked.” 
Parties of armed men proceeded without delay to the prisons where the non juring clergy, the swiss officers and those confined since the 10th of August on account of practises against the state, were detained in custody. They took out the prisoners one by one, gave them a kind of mock trial before a jury of them selves, acquitted some few, and murdered the rest. a mong these last was the princess de Lamballe. she was taken from her bed before this bloody tribunal, and massacred; her head was carried by the populace to the 
Temple, to be seen by the queen, whose 
friend 
she was. 
These massacrcs lasted for two days, and upwards 
of 
1000 persons were put to death. There is scarce anything in history that can be represented as parallel to them; they were committed, it is said, by less than 300 men, in the midst of an immense city, which heard of them with horror, and in the vicinity of thc national assembly, which, by going in a body, could have put an end to them. But such was the confusion and dismay of these two disgracesul days, that no man dared to stir srom his own house; and every one belie ved that the whole city, excepting his own street, was engaged in massacre and bloodshed. The national guards were all ready at their respective posts, but no man directed them to act : and there is too much reason to suspect that santerre and the chiefs of the com mune connived, at least, at the transaction. 
In the mean time, general Dumourier was taking the best measures to protract the march of the enemy till the army of Kellerman, consisting of 20, 000 men, could join him from Lorraine, and that of Bournonville from Flanders, amounting to 13, 000; together with whatever new levies Luckner might be able to send him from Chalons. The forest of Argonne extends from north to south upwards of 40 miles; it lay direct ly in the route of the duke of Brunswick, who must either force his way across it, or make a circuit of 40 miles by the pass of Grandpré on the north, or by bar leduc on the south. The pass that lay directly in his route was that of Biesme. After surveying dillon’s position here, he left a party of 20, 000 men to watch it; and with the main body of his army took the cir cuitous rout by Grandpré on the north. Here du mourier waited to receive him, and was attacked on the 12th and 13th without success: but on the 14th, the attack of the Prussians was irresistible, and Dumourier retreating, gave up the pass. On his march he was so violently pressed by the advanced cavalry of the prus sians, that his army, at one time, was seized with a panic, and fled before 1500 men; who, if they had push ed their advantage, might have dispersed it. On the 15th, however, Dumourier encamped at st Menehould, and began to fortify it. bournonville’s army joined Dumourier on the 17th. The duke ef Brunswick formed a plan of attacking Kellerman before his junc tion could be completed. That general arrived on the 19th within a mile of dumourier’s camp; the project ed attack took place; the Prussians, manoeuvred with their usual coolness and address; they attempted to surround kellerman’s army, but this could not be ac complished. The French troops preserved excellent order, while the national vivacity was constantly showing itself in their shouts and patriotic songs : 40o French were killed, and 500 wounded; the loss of the Prussians was much greater : and,, in the face of the enemy, Kellerman joined Dumourier at the end of the engagement without opposition. At the time that the attack was made on the army of Kellerman, an at tempt was made to force dillon’s camp at Biesme by the 20, 000 men that had been left in its vicinity, but without success; and this large detachment was thus prevented from crossing the forest of Argonne and join ing the duke of Brunswick. It is to be observed, that 
. in these engagements the French owed their superiority chiefly to the excellence of their artillery; 
a 
circumstance 
which served to convince their enemies that they 
