vil . 
The consequence of all 
this 
was, that 
every 
one was eager to provide himself with these salutary remedies;; great numbers undertook fatiguing and perilous voyages, and subjected themselves to all sorts of hardships; while others made use of this delu sion to accumulate their riches, and to impose upon the miserable multitude by the most impious and shocking inventions. As the demand for relics was prodigious and universal, the clergy employed the utmost dex terity to satisfy all demands, and were far from being nice in the methods they used for that end. The bo dies of the saints were sought by fasting and prayer, instituted by the priest in order to obtain a divine answer and an infallible direction, and this pretended direction never failed to accomplish their desires; the holy carcase was always found, and that always in consequence, as they impioussy gave out, of the suggestion and inspi ration of God himself. Each discovery of this kind was attended with excessive demonstrations of joy, and animated the zeal of these devout seekers to enrich the church still more and more with this new kind of trea sure. Many travelled with this view into the Eastern provinces, and frequented the places which Christ and his disciples had honoured with their presence, that, with the bones and other sacred remains of the sirst heralds of the gospel, they might comfort dejected minds, ■calm trembling consciences, save linking states, and de send their inhabitants from all sorts of calamities. Nor did these pious travellers return home empty; the craft, dexterity, and knavery of the Greeks, found a rich prey in the stupid credulity of the Latin relic hunters, and made 
a 
profitable commerce of this new devotion. The latter paid considerable sums for legs and arms, skulls and jawbones (several of which were Pagan, and some not human), and other things that were supposed to have belonged to the primitive worthies of the Christian church; and thus the Latin churches came to the possession of those celebrated relics of st Mark, st James, st Bartholomew, Cyprian, pan taleon, and other?, which they show at this day with so much ostentation. But there were many who, un able to procure sor themselves these spiritual treasures by voyages and prayers, had recourse to violence and theft; sor all sorts of means, and all sorts of attempts in a cause of this nature, were considered, when success sul, as pious and acceptable to the supreme Being. — Besides the arguments srom antiquity to which the pa pists refer, in vindication of their worship of relics, of which the reader may form some judgement srom this article, Bellarmine appeals to scripture in support of it, and cites the following passages, viz. Exod. XIII 19.; Deut. XXXIV 6.; 2 Kings XIII 21.; 2 Kings XXIII 16, 17, 18.; Isaiah XI 10.; Matthewxi. 20, 21, 22.; Acts 
V 
12- 15.; Acts XIX II 12. see Popery. 
The Roman Catholics in Great Britain do not ac knowledge any worship to be due to relics, but merely 
a 
high veneration and respe i, by which means they think they honour God, who, they say, has often wrought very extraordinary miracles by them. But, however proper this veneration and respect may be, its abuse has been 
so 
great and so general, as fully to war rant the rejection of them altogether. 
Relics are forbidden to be used or brought into England by several statutes; and justices of peace are empowered to search houses for popish books and relics, which, when sound, are to be defaced and burnt, 
c, 
3 Jac. I. cap. 26. 
RELICT, in law, the same with 
W1DOW. 
RELIEF 
(Relevamen; 
but, in Domestlay, 
Relevatio, Relevium), 
signisies a certain sum of money, which the tenant, holding by knight’s service, grand ferjeanty, or other tenure, (for which homage or legal service is due), and being at full age at the death of his an cestor, paid unto his lord at his entrance. see pri mer. 
Though reliefs had their original while feuds were only life estates, yet they continued after feuds became hereditary; and were therefore looked upon, very justly, as one of the greatest grievances of tenure : especially when, at the sirst, they were merely arbitrary and at the will of the lord; fo that, if he pleased to demand an exorbitant relief, it was in effect to disinlierit the heir. The English ill brooked this consequence of their new adopted policy; and there fore william the Conqueror by his laws 
ascertained 
the relief, by directing (in imitation of the Danish he riots), that a certain quantity of arms, and habiliments of war, should be paid by the earls, barons, and vavafours respectively; and, if the latter had no arms, they should pay 100s. william Rufus broke through this composition, and again demanded arbitrary un certain reliefs, as due by the feodal laws; thereby in effect obliging every heir to new purcliase or 
redeem 
his land: but his brother Henry I. by the charter be fore mentioned, restored his father’s law; and ordained, that the relief to be paid should be according to the law so established, and not an arbitrary redemption. — ■ But afterwards, when, by an ordinance in 27 Hen. II called the 
affise of arms, 
it was provided, that every man’s armour should descend to his heir, for defence of the lealm, and it thereby became impracticable to pay these acknowledgments in arms according to the laws of the Conqueror, “the composition was univer sally accepted of 100 s. for every knight’s see, as we find it ever after established. But it must be remem bered, that this relief was only then payable, if the heir at the death of his ancestor had attained his full age of 21 years. 
To 
RELIEVE 
the Guard, 
is to put fresh men upon guard, which is generally every 24 horns. 
To Relieve the Trenches, 
is to relieve the guard of the trenches, by appointing those for that duty who have been there before. 
To Relieve the sentries, 
is to put fresh men upon that duty from the guard, which is generally done every two hours, by a corporal who attends the relief, to see that the proper orders are delivered to the soldier who relieves. 
RELIEVO, or Relief, in sculpture, cis the projecture or standing out of a figure which arises prominent from the ground or plane on which it is formed whether that figure be cut with the chissel, moulded, or cast. 
There are three kinds or degrees of relievo, viz. alto, basso, and demi relievo. The alto relievo, called alsu 
haut relief, 
or 
high relievo, 
is when the ligure is formed after nature, and projects as much as the life. basso relievo, bafs relief, or low relievo, is when the work is raised a little from the ground, as in medals, and thc frontispieces of buildings; and particularly in. the histo 
