a new exchange duc upon a bill of exchange that comes to be protested, and to be refunded the bearer by the drawer or endorser. 
REFECTION, among ecclesiastscs, a spare meal or repast, just sufficing for the support of life : hence the hall in convents, and other communities, where the monks, nuns, c. take their refections or meals in com mon, is called the 
refectory. 
REFERENCE, in writing, ca mark relative to another similar one in the margin, or at the bottom of the page, where something omitted in the text is added, and which is to be inserted either in reading or copy stig· 
REFINING, in general, is the art of purifying a thing; including not only the effaying or refining of metals, but likewise the depuration or clarification of liquors. see Metallurgy, Part II Clarification; and Pharmacy. 
Gold and silver may be refined by several methods, which are all founded on the essential properties of these metals, and acquire different names according to their kinds. Thus, for instance, gold having the property which no other metal, not even silver, has of refitting the action of sulphur, of antimony, of nitrous acid, of marine acid; may be purified by these agents from all other metallic substances, and consequently may be re sined. These operations are distinguished by proper names, as 
purification of gold by antimony, parting, concentrated parting, dry parting *. 
In a similar manner, as silver has the property, which the imperfect metals have not, of resisting the action of nitre, it may be refined by this fait : but the term 
refining 
is chiefly applied to the purification of gold and silver by lead in the cupel. 
This is performed by the destruction, vitrification, and scorification, of all the extraneous and destructible metallic substances with which they are all allayed. 
As none but the perfect metals can resist tile combined action of air and fire, without losing their inflammable principle, and being changed into earthy or vitreous matters, incapable of remaining any longer united with substances in a metallic state, there is then a possibility of purifying gold and silver from all allay of imperfect metals merely by the action of fire and air; only by keeping them fused till all tile allay be destroyed : but this purification would be very expensive, from the great consumption of fuel, and would be exceedingly tedious. silver allayed with copper has been exposed longer than 60 hours to a glasshouse fire without being perfectly refined the reason of which is, that when a small quantity only of imperfect metal remains united with gold or silver, it is covered and protected from tlte action of the air, which is necessary for the combustion of the imperfect metals, as of all combusti ble matters. 
This refining of gold and silver merely by the action of fire, which was the only method anciently known, was very long, difficult, expensive, and imperfect; but a much shorter and more advantageous method has been discovered. This method consists in adding to the al laid gold and silver a certain quantity of lead, and in exposing afterwards this mixture to the action of the lire. Lead is one of the metals which loses most quickly and easily a sufficient quantity of its inflammable 
principle to cease te be in 
a 
metallic state; busp at thc 
same time, this metal has the remarkable property of retaining, notwithstanding the action of the lire, enough of this same inflammable principle to be very easily melted into a vitrisied and powerfully vitrifying matter, called 
litharge. 
The lead then which is to be added to the gold and silver to be refined, or which happens naturally to be mixed with these metals, produces in their refining the following advantages: 1. By increasing the proportion' of imperfect metals, it prevents them from being so well covered and protected by the perfect metals. — ■ 
2. 
By uniting with these imperfect metals, it cornmu nicates to them a property it has of losing very easily a great part of its inflammable principle. 3. By its vitrifying and fussng property which it exercises with all its force upon the calcined and naturally refractory parts of the other metals, it facilitates and accelerates the fu sion, the scorisication, and the separation of these metals. These are the advantages procured by lead in the refining of gold and silver. 
The lead, which in this operation is scorisied, and' fcorifies along with it the imperfect metals, separates from the metallic mass, with which it is then incapable of remaining united. It floats upon the surface of the melted mass; because, by losing part of its phlogis tonne, it loses also part of its specisic gravity, and lastly it vitrifies. 
These vitrified and melted 'matters accumulating more and more upon the surface of the metal while thc operation advances, would protect this sursace from the contact of air which is so absolutely necessary for the scorisication of the rest, and would thus stop the progress of the operation, which could never be sinished, if a method had not been contrived for their removal. This removal of the vitrisied matter is procured either by the nature of the vessel in which the melted matter is contained, and which being porous, absorbs and imbibes the scorified matter as fast as it is formed, or by a channel cut in the edge, of the vessel through which the matter flows out. 
The vessel su which the refining is performed is 
flat 
and shallow, that the matter which it contains may present to the air the greatest sursace possible. Thia form resembles that of a cup, and hence it Iras been called 
cupel. 
The furnace ought to be vaulted, that the heat may be applied upon the'sursace of the metal during the whole time of the operation. Upon this surface a crust of dark coloured pellicle is continually forming. In the instant when all the imperfect metal is destroyed and consequently the scorisication ceases, the surface of the perfect metals is seen, and appears clean and brilliant. This forms a kind of fulguration or corus cation. By this mark the metal is known to be resinedt If the operation be fo conducted that the metal sus tains only the precise degree of heat necessary to keep it fused before it be perfectly refined, we may observe that it fixes or becomes solid all at once in the very in stant of the eoruscation; because a greater heat is required to keep silver or gold in fusion when they are pure than when allayed.with lead. 
Ί he operation of refilling may be performed in small or in large quantities, upon the same principles, but only with some differences in the management. As the resimng of finali quantities of perfect metals is perform 
ed in the same maimer as these metals are essayed, · thé 
