ing effect upon objects of sight, is made sufficiently evident; and that they have the same effect upon objects of the other senses, is also certain. Nor is that law confined to the external senses; sor characters con trasted make a greater figure by the opposition : Iago, in the tragedy of Othello, says, 
He hath a daily beauty in his life That makes me ugly. 
The character of a fop, and of a rough warrior, are nowhere more successfully contrasted than in jshake speare : 
Hotspur. 
My liege, I did deny no prisoners: : 
I remember, when the sight was done,. when I was dry with rage, and extreme toil, 
Breathless and faint, leaning upon my sword, 
Came there a certain lord, neat, trimly dress’d, 
Fresh as a bridegroom; and his chin, new reap’d, show’d like a stubble land at harvest home. 
He was perfumed like a milliner; 
And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held 
A pouncet box, which ever and anon 
He gave lus nose : — and mil he smil d and talk d; 
And as the soldiers bare dead bodies by, 
He call’d them untaught knaves, unmannerly, 
To bring a siovenly, unhandsome corpse Betwixt the wind and his nobility, with many holiday and lady terms He question’d me : among the rest, demanded My pris’ners, in your majesty’s belialf. 
I 
then, ali smarting with my wounds; being gall’d To be so pester’d with a popinjay, 
Out of my grief, and my impatience, 
anfwer’d, negle&ngly, I know not v^liat : 
He should, · or should not; for be made me mad, 
To see him shine so brisk, and smell fo sweet, 
And talk so like a waiting gentlewoman, 
Of guns, and drums, and wounds, ( God save the mark!) And telling me, the sovereign’st thing on earth was parmacity for an inward bruise; 
And that it was great pity, so it vvas, 
This villainous saltpetre should be digg’d Out of the bowels of the harmless earth, which many a good, tall fellow had destroy’d so cowardly : and but for these vile guns, 
He would hrnself have been a soldier- -- 
part, Henry 
IV 
act sc. 
Passions and emotions are also inflamed by comparison. A man of high rank humbles the bystanders even to annihilate them in their own opinion : Cæfar, beholding the statue of Alexander, was greatly mortified, that now, at the age of 32, when Alexander died, he had not performed one memorable action. 
Our opinions also are much influenced by compart fon. A man whose opulence exceeds the ordinary standard is reputed richer than be is in reality; and wisdom or weakness, if at all remarkable in an individualis generally carried beyond the truth. 
The opinion a man forms of his present distress is heightened by contrasting it with his former happiness: : 
I forget 
what I have been, I might the better bear ivhat i’m destin’d to. i’m not the first 
That have been wretched : but to think how much I have been happier. 
southern’s Innocent Adultery, act 
2. 
The distress of a long journey makes even an indifferent inn agreeable : and, in travelling, when the road is good, and the horseman well covered, a bad day may be agreeable, by making him sensible how sung he is. 
The same effect is equally remarkable, when a man opposes bis condition to that of others. A ship tos sed about in a storm, makes the spectator reflect upon his own ease and security, and puts these in the strong 
est 
light. 
A man in grief cannot bear mirth; it gives him a more lively notion of his unhappiness, and of course makes him more unhappy. satan, contemplating the beauties of the terrestrial paradise, has the following exclamation : 
with what delight could I have walk’d thee round, 
If I could joy in ought, sweet interchange Of hill and valley, rivers, woods, and plains, 
Now land, now sea, and shores with forest crown’d, Rocks, dens, and caves! but I in none of these Find place or refuge; and the more I see Pleasures about me, so much more I feel Torment within me, as from the hateful stege Of contraries : all good to me becomes Bane, and in heav’n much worse would be my state. 
Paradise Lost, book 
9. /. i 14, 
The appearance of danger gives sometimes pleasure, sometimes pain. A timorous person upon the battlements of a high tower, is seized with fear, which even the consciousnefs of security cannot dissipate. But upon one of a firm head, this situation has a contrary effect : the appearance of danger heightens, by opposition, thc consciousnefs of security, and consequently the satisfac tion that arises from security; here the feeling resem bles that abovementioned, occasioned by a ship labouring in a storm. 
The effect of magnifying or lessening objects by means of comparison is to be attributed to the in siuence of passion over our opinions. This will evidently appear by reflecting in what manner a spectator is affected, when a very large animal is for the sirst time pla ced beside a very small one of the same species. The sirst thing that strikes the mind is the difference between the two animals, which is so great as to occasion surprise; and this, like other emotions, magnifying its object, makes ns conceive the difference to be the greatest that can be : we see, or seem to see, the one animal extremely little, and the other extremely large. The emotion of surprise arising from any unusual resemblance, serves equally to explain, why at sirst view we are apt to think such resemblance more entire than it is in reality. And it must be observed, that the circumstances of more and less, which are the proper subjects of comparison, raise 
a 
perception so indistinct and vague as to facilitate the 
effect 
described;; have no mental standard of great and little, nor of the several degrees of any attribute; and the mind, thn» unrestrained, is naturally disposed to indulge its surprise to rhe utmost extent. 
In exploring the operations of the mind, some of which are extremely nice and slippery, it is necessary 
