to pay attention to the same duties. He likewise en joins works of beneficence, desires the priest to relieve the distressed, and to build houses for the accommodation of strangers of whatever religion; and says, it is a disgrace for Pagans to disregard those of their own religion, while Cliristians do kind offices to strangers and enemies. This is indeed an eminent instance of the happy influence of Christianity even on the sentiments and manners of those who regarded the Christian name with abhorrence. 
Upon the whole then, may we not, from the parti clstars here exhibited concerning the influence of this religion on the manners and happiness of men in socie ty, conclude that Christianity is infinitely superior to the superstitions of Paganism? as being in its tendency unifotraly favourable to the virtue and the happiness of mankind, and even to the system of religion and laws delivered by Moses to the children of Israel : because, while the religion of the Jews was calculated only for one particular nation, and it may almost be said for one particular stage in the progress of society, christiani ty is an universal religion, formed to exert its happy influence in all ages and among all nations; and has a tendency to dispel the shades of barbarism and ignorance, to promote the cultivation of the powers of the human understanding, and to encourage every virtuous resine ment of manners. 
V Another religion, which has made and still makes a conspicuous sigure in the world remains yet to be examined. The religion of Mahomet is that which we here allude to. whether we consider through what an extensive part of the globe that religion pre vails, the political importance of the nations among whom it is professed, or the striking peculiarity of cha racter by which it is distinguished from all other religious systems — it is for all these reasons well worthy of particular notice. Like the Jewish religion, it is not barely a system of religious doctrines and general moral precepts; it forms both the civil legissature and. the re ligious system of those nations among whom it is professed;; like it too, it would appear to be calculated rather for one particular period in the progress of mankind from rudeness to refinement, than for all ages and all states of society. 
The history of its origin is pretty well known, and we have had occasion to enlarge upon it under a former article (see Mahomet and' Mahometanism). lve are not here to trace the impostures of the prophet, or to consider the arts by which, he so succefssully accomplished his designs; but merely to eonsider the morality of his religion, and its influence oa civil order and the happiness of society. 
If we view the state of the nations among whom it is .established, 
we 
cannot hesitate a moment to declare it friendly to. ignorance, to despotism, and to impurity of manners The Turks, the Persians, and the Malays, are all Muslims; and in reviewing their history aud considering their present state, we might find a sufficient number of facts to justify the above assertion : and we must not neglect to observe, that, as those nations are not known to have ever been since their con version to Mâhometanifm under a much happier government, or in a much more civilised state than at present, it cannot be, with any degree of fairness, argued, with 
respect to Mahometanisen as with respect to Cluistiani. 
ty, that it is only when its influence is so opposed by other causes as to prevent it from producing its full effects, that it does not conduct those societies among which it is established to an high state of civilization and refinement. 
One, and that by no means an inconsiderable, part of the Koran, was occasionally invented to solve some difficulty with which the prophet found himself at the time perplexed, or to help him to the gratification of his ruling passions, lust and ambition, when he and his followers were, at any time, unsuccessful in those wars by which he sought to propagate his religion, to prevent them from falling away into unbelief, or linking into despondency, he took care to inform them that God suffered such misfortunes to befall believers, as a punishment for their sins, and to try their faith. The doctrine of predestination, which he affiduoussy inculca ted, had an happy effect to persuade his followers to rush boldly into the midst of death and danger at his command. He prevailed with Zeyd to put away his wife, married her himself, and pretended that his crime had the approbation of heaven; and, in the Koran, he introduces the Deity approving of this marriage. Being repulsed from the siege of Mecca, he made a league with the inhabitants; but on the very next year, sind ing it convenient to surprise the city, by violating this treaty, he justisied his perfidy by teaching his followers to disregard promises or leagues made with infidels. In some instances again, we find absurd prohibitions en joined sor similar reasons : his officers, having on some occasion drunk to excess, excited much riot and consu sion in the camp, he prohibited the use of wine and other inebriating liquors among his followers in future. Now, though it must be acknowledged that many evils arise srom the use of these liquors, yet we cannot but think that, when used in moderation, they are in many cases beneficial to men; and certainly as much allowed by God as. opium, which the Muslims have substi tuted in their place. 
Mahomet is allowed to have copied from the Christian and the Jewish religions, as well as from the idolatrous superstitions which prevailed through Arabia, and thus to have formed a motley mixture of reason and absurdity, of pure theism and wild superstition. He coriiulered also the circumstances of his country, and the prejudices of his countrymen, when he attended to the former, he was generally judicious enough to fuit his doctrines and decisions to them with sufficient skill; the latter he also managed with the greatest'art : but he entered into accommodation with them in in stauces when a true prophet or a wife; and upright le gisiator would surely have opposed them with decisive vigour.. where the prophet indulges his own fancy',, or borrows from the superstitions of his countrymen, nothing can be more ridiculous than that.rhapsody of lies, contradictions and extravagant fables, which he delivers to his followers Amazing are the absurdities which he relates concerning the patriarchs, concerning. solomon, and concerning the animals that were affen* bltd in noah’s ark. 
But in the whole tissue cf absurdities of which his system. conflits, there is nothing mere absurd, or more happily calculated to promote impurity of manners, than his descriptions of heaven and hell; the ideas of future rewards and puuishments which he sought to impresa 
