restoration , the same with restauration. see 
Restauration. 
In England, the return of king Charles II in 1660, is, by way of eminence, called the 
Restoration;; 
the 29th of May is kept as an anniversary festival, in commemoration of that event, by which the regal and epis •copal government was resmred. 
restorative, in medicine, a remedy proper for restoring and retrieving the strength and vigour both of the body and animal spirits. 
All under this class, says Quincy, are rather nutri mental than medicinal; and are more administered to repair the wastes of the constitution, than to alter and rectify its disorders. 
restriction, among logicians, is limiting a term, so as to make it signify less than it usually does. 
restringent, in medicine, ' the same with astringent. see 
Astringents. 
result, what ie gathered from a conference, inquiry, meditation, or the like; or the conclusion and effect thereof. 
resurrection, in theology, is a rising again srom the state of the dead; and is that event, the be lies of which constitutee one of the principal articles in the Christian creed. 
In treating of this object of our faith, it has been usual to mention, sirst, the resurrection of our Blessed x„ord, with the character of the witnesses, and the authenticity of the gospel history by which it has been proved, and from which, as a consequence, ours is inferred. But as most of the arguments for his resurrec tion are contained in the gospels, and as merely to re peat them would afford, we hope, but little informa tion to most of our readers, we mean here to take 
a 
view of the several grounds on which the belief of a future existence is supposed to be founded; to collect together some of the sentiments of authors and nations concerning the place where departed spirits reside; concerning the nature of their present state; concerning the kinds of their future destination; that we may afterwards see how far their notions differ and agree with what we consider as the doctrines of scripture. 
Of a future state, there have sometimes been found a few wandering and obscure tribes who seemed to enter tain no notion at all; though it should be remarked, that some of these were likewise observed in so low a degree of savage barbarity as not to be acquainted with the use of the bow, the dart, or the siing, and as not knowing how to wield a club, or to throw a stone, as a weapon of defence *. 
wherever the human mind has been cultivated, or properly speaking, begun to be cultivated, the opinion has likewise generally prevailed that human existence is not confined to the present scene; nay, so very gene ral has this notion been found among mankind, that many are puzzled how to account for what they suppose to he almost next to its universality. 
To explain the phenomenon, some have imagined that it is a notion derived by tradition from primaeval re velation. They suppose that the first parent of mankind, as a moral agent accountable for his conduct, was informed by his Maker of everything which it was of importance for him to know; that he must have been acquainted with this doctrine of a future state in parti cular 
j 
and that he could hardly fail to communicate a 
matter 
so interesting to his posterity. They suppose, too, that the history of the tranflatioa of Enoch must have made a great noise in the world, and that the re membrance of it must have been long retained and ■widely diffused; and they find in the book of Job plain intimations of a resurrection from the dead, which, from the manner in which they are introduced, they think that very ancient patriarch must have received through this channel. 
It is not thought to be any objection to these suppositions, that the Most High, when delivering his laws from the top of Mount sinai, did not enforce them by the awsul sanctions of a future state. The intelligent reader of the scriptures knows that the sanctions of a future state belong to a different and more universal dis pensation than was that of Moses; that the primaeval revelation related to that dispensation; and that the Jewish law, with its temporal sanctions, was introduced only to preserve the knowledge and worshsp of the true God among a people too gross in their conceptions to have been properly influenced by the view of future rewards and punishments, of such a nature as eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man to conceive. He sees at the same time, everywhere scattered through the Old Testament, plain indications of the Mosaic economy, being no more than preparatory to the bringing in of a better hope; and he thinks it evident, that such Jews as understood anything of the nature of that better hope, must have been convinced, that, however the 
ceremonial rites 
of 
their 
religion might be sufficiently guarded by temporal sanc tions, the 
fundamental principles 
of 
all 
religion and virtue are supported by rewards and punishments to be dispen sed in a state beyond the grave. see 
Prophecy 
and 
Theology. 
That the progenitors of the human race must have been inspired by their Creator with the knowledge of their immortality, and of everything necessary to their everlasting welfare, cannot, we should think, be questioned by any one who believes that the world had 
a 
beginning, and that it is under the government of good ness and justice. The progress from sense to science is so slow, that however capable we may suppose the ear liest inhabitants of this earth to have been of making philosophical discoveries, we cannot believe that the Father of mercies left his helpless creature to discover for himself his future existence. Death, when sirst presented to him, must have been 
a 
ghastly object; and had he been left without any hope of redemption from it, he would undoubtedly have sunk into listlefs despondency. 
But a prospect of immortality is so pleasing to the human mind, that if it was communicated to the sirst 
man, it would of course be cherished by his postersc ty; and there is no difficulty in conceiving how it might be handed down by tradition to very remote ages, among such of his descendents as were not scattered over the face of the earth in small and savage tribes. — > In the course of its progress, it would frequently be new modelled by the ever active imagination; and at last many absurd and fantastic circumstances would doubtless be combined with the original truth, that death puts not an end to human existence. 
But though we are firmly convinced that the 
first 
principles of useful knowledge, and among them the doctrine of 
a 
future state, were communicated to man 
