works were printed at Amsterdam in 1722, in 2 vols 12 mo, and the next year a pompous edition was printed in 2 vols quarto, 
RACING, the riding heats for a plate, or other premium. see Plate. The amusement of horse racing, which is now so common, was not unknown among the great nations of antiquity, nor wholly un practised by our ancestors in Britain, as we have al ready mentioned in the article Race. In 1599, pri vate matches between gentlemen, who were their own jockies and riders, were very common; and, in the reign of James I. public races were established at various pla ces, when the discipline, and mode of preparing the horses for running, c. were much the same as they are now. The most celebrated races of that time were called bell courses, the prize of the conqueror being a bell: hence, perhaps, the phrase of 
hearing the hell, 
when applied to excellence, is derived. In the latter end of Charles i.’s reign, races were performed in Hyde park. Newmarket was aifo a place for the same purpose, though it was sirst used for hunting. Racing was re vived soon after the Restoration, and much encouraged by Charles II who appointed races for his own amuse mcnt at Datchet Mead, when he resided at windsor. Newmarket, however, now became the principal place. The king attended in person, established a house for his own acconsmodation, and kept and entered horses in his own name. Instead of bells, he gave a silver bowl or cup value 100 guineas; on which prize the exploits and pedigree of the successful horse were generally en graved. Instead of the cup or bowl, the royal gift is now a hundred guineas, william III not only added to the plates, but even founded an academy for riding; and Queen Anne continued the bounty of her ances tors, adding several plates herself. George I. towards the end of his reign, discontinued the plates, and gave in their room a hundred guineas. An act was passed in the 13th year of the reign of George II for suppressing races by poneys and other small and weak horses, c. by which all matches for any prize under the value of 50 1. are prohibited, under a penalty of 2.00 1. to be paid by the owner of each horse running, and 100 1. by such as advertise the plate; and by which each horse entered to run, if five years old, is obliged to carry ten stones; if six, eleven; and if seven, twelve. It is also ordained, that no person shall run any horse at a course, unless it be his own, nor enter more than one horse for the same plate, upon pain of forfeiting the horses; and also every horse race must be begun and ended in the same day. Horses may run for the value of 50 1. with any weight, and at anyplace. 13 Geo. II cap. 19. 18 George II cap. 34. pennant’s British Zoology, vol. i. p. 6, c. berenger’s History and Art of Horsemanship, vol. i. p. 185, cat new market there are two courses, the long and the round : the first is exactly four miles and about 380 yards, 
i. e. 
7420 yards. The second is 6640 yards. Childers, the swiftest horse ever known, has run the first course in seven minutes and a half, and the second in six mi nutes forty seconds; which is at the rate of more than forty-nine feet in a second. But all other horses take up at least seven minutes and fifty seconds in completing the first and longest course, and seven minutes only in the shortest, which is at the rate of more than forty, seven feet in a second. And it is commonly supposed 
that these eourscw cover, at every bound, a fpaee of ground in length about twenty-four English feet. race horsea have been for scmc time an object of taxation. 
rachitis, the Rickets. seemeuicine, ^347. 
RACK (Edmund), a person well known in the literary world by his attachment to, and promotion of, agricultural knowledge; he was a native of Norfolk, a Quaker. His education was common, and he was ap prenticed originally to a shopkeeper: his society was select in this situation, and by improving himself in learning, his conversation was enjoyed by a respectable acquaintance. He wrote many essays, poems, and letters, and some few controversial tracts. At length he fettled, about his 40th year, at Bath in 1775, and was soon introduced to the most eminent literati of that place, among whom Dr Wilson and Mrs Macaulay highly esteemed him for his integrity and abilities. In 1777 hc published 
Mentor's Letters, 
a moral work, which has run through many editions. But this year he gained great celebrity by his plan of an agricultural society, which was soon adopted by four counties. He still further advanced his fame by his papers in the farmer’s Magazine, and his communications in the Bath so ciety’s papers; a work remarkable for its ingenuity and' spirit. His last engagement was in the History of so mersetshire, where the topographical parochial surveys were his. Thia work, in 3 vols 410, was published in 1791, by his colleague the Reverend Mr Colliniem. —. Mr Rack died of an asthma in February 1787, aged 52. 
Rack, an engine of torture, furnished with pulleys, cords, c. for extorting confession from criminals. — The trial by rack is utterly unknown to the law of England; though once, when the dukes of Exeter and suffolk, and other ministers of Henry VL had laid a design to introduce the civil law into this kingdom as the rule of government; for a beginning thereof they erected a rack for torture, which was called in derision the duke of exeter’s daughter, and still remains in the I ower of London, where it was occasionally used as an engine of state, not of law, more than once in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. But when, upon the assaf sination otvilliers duke of Buckingham, by Felton, it was proposed in the privy council to put the assaffin to the rack, in order to discover his acccomplices} the judges, being consulted, declared unanimously, to their own honour and the honour of the English law, that no such proceeding was allowable by the laws of eng land, it seems astonishing that this usage of adminse stering the torture should be said to arise from a tender ness to the lives of men; and yet this is the reason given for its introduction in the civil lav, and its sub sequent. adoption by the French and other foreign nations, viz. because the laws cannot endure that any man should die upon the evidence of a false, or even a single witnese, and therefore contrived this method that inno cence should manifest itself by a stout denial, or guilt by a plain confession : thus rating a man's virtue by the hardiness of his constitution, and his guilt by the sensi bility of his nerves, The Marquis Beccaria, in an ex quisite. piece of raillery, has proposed this problem, with a gravity and precision that are truly mathematical : 
"
The force of the muscles and the sensibility of the. nerves of an innocent person being given; it is required to find the degree of pain necessary to make him 
