he ever painted, except those beautiful and chaste ones which compose the back grounds of many of his por trasts, is “A View on the Thames from Richmond, ” which in 1784 was exhibited by the society for pro moting Painting and Design in Liverpool. 
In 1764 Mr Reynolds had the merit of being the sirst promoter of that club, which, having long existed without a name, became at last distinguished by the ap pellation of the 
Literary Club. 
Upon the foundation of the Royal Academy of Painting, sculpture, and Architecture, he was appointed president; and his ac knowledged excellence in his profession made the appointment acceptable to all the lovers of art. To add to the dignity of this new institution, his majesty conferred on the president the honour of knighthood; and sir Joshua delivered his sirst discourse at the opening of the Academy on Januar)' 2. 1769. The merit of that discourse has been universally admitted among painters; but it contains some directions respecting the proper mode of prosecuting their studies, to which every stu dent of every art would do well to pay attention. “I would chiefly recommend (says he), that an implicit obedience to the 
rules of art, 
as established by the practice of the great masters, should be exacted from the young students. That those models, which have passed through the approbation of ages, should be considered by them as perfect and infallible guides; as subjects for their imitation, not their criticism. I am confident, that this is the only efficacious method of making a progress in the arts; and that lie who sets out with doubting, will find life finished before he becomes masser of the rudiments. For it may be laid down as a maxim, that be who begins by presuming on his own sense, has ended his studies as soon as he has commenced them. Every opportunity, therefore, should be taken to discountenance that false and vulgar opinion, that rules are the fetters of genius. They are fetters only to men no genius; as that armour which, upon the strong, becomes an ornament and a defence, upon the weak and inishapen turns into a load, and cripples the body which it was made to protect.” 
Each succeeding year, on the distribution of the prizes, sir Joshua delivered to the students a discourse of equal merit with this : and perhaps we do not hazard too much when we say, that, from the whole col lected, the lover of belles letters and the fine arts will acquire juster notions of what is meant by taste in ge r.eral, and better rules for acquiring a correct taste, than from multitudes of those volumes which have been professedly written on the subject. 
In the autumn of 1785 he went to Brussels, where he expended about L 1000 on the purchase of paint ingg, which, having been taken from the different mo nasterses and religious houses in Flanders and Germany, were then exposed to sale by the command of the em peror Joseph! Gainsborough and he had engaged to paint each other’s portrait; and the canvas for both being actually stretched, sir Joshua gave one sitting to his distinguished rival; but, to the regret of every ad mirer of the art, the unexpected death of the latter pre vented all further progress. 
In 1790 he was anxioussy desirous to procure the vacant profefforship of perspective in the academy for Mr Bonomi, an Italian architect; but that artist not having been yet elected, an associate was of course no academician, and it became necessary to raise him to those situations, in order to qualify him for being a professor. Mr Gilpin being his competitor for the affociateship, the numbers on the ballot proved equal, when the president by bis casting vote decided the election in favour of his friend, who was thereby advanced so far towards the professorship. soon after this, an academic seat be ing vacant, sir Joshua exerted all his influence to ob tain it for Mr Bonomi; but finding himself outvoted by 
a 
majority of two to one, he quitted the chair with great dissatissaction, and next day sent to the secretary of th&academy a formal resignation of the office, which for twenty-one years he had filled with honour to himself and his country. His indignation, however, sub siding, he suffered himself to be prevailed upon to return to the chair, which within a year and a half he was again desirous to quit for a better reason. 
Finding a disease of languor, occasioned by an en largementof the liver, to which he had for some time been subject, increase upon him, and daily expecting the total loss of sight, he wrote a letter to the academy, inti mating his intention to resign the office of president on account of bodily infirmities, which disabled him from executing the duties of it to his own satissaction. The academicians received this intelligence with the respect full concern due to the talents and virtues of their president;; either then did enter, or designed to enter, into a resolution, honourable to all parties, namely, that a deputation from the whole body of the academy should wait upon him, jand inform him of their wish, that the authority and privileges of the office of president might be his during his life; declaring their willingness to permit the performance of any of its duties which might be irksome to him by a deputy. 
From this period sir Joshua never painted more. The last effort of his pencil was the portrait of the Honourable Charles James Fox, which was executed in his 
patra dissolving the Pearl; Garrick in the character of Kitely; Garrick between Tragedy and Comedy; Mrs Abingdon in the character of Comedy,; a Child surrounded by Guardian Angels; Miss Beauclerc in the character of spenser’s Una; Resignation; the Duchess of Manchester in the character of Diana; Lady Blake in the charaôler of Juno; Mrs sheridan in the character of st Cecilia; Edwin, horn beattie’s Minstrel; the Nativity, hour Cardinal Virtues, and Faith, Hope, and Charity, for the window of New College Chapel, oxford;; studious Boy; a Bacchante; a daughter of Lord W. Gordon as an Angel; the Holy Family; the Cottagers, srom Thomson;; Vestal; the Careful shepherdess; a Gypsy telling Fortunes; the infant Hercules strangling the serpent; the moufe trap girl; Venus; Cornelia and her Children; the Bird; Melanclioly ■ Mrs siddons in Tragedy; Head of Lear; Mrs Talmash in the character of Miranda, with Profpervaçd call ban; Robin Goodfellow; Death of Cardinal Beaufort; Macbeth, with the Caldron of the witches. 
