Mountain , by the assistance of the Jacobin club, had now acquired a complete ascendancy over the city of Paris. The Girondists or Brissotines proposed therefore to remove the convention from the capital; and to prevent this, rhe 
Mountain 
resolved to make the same use of the people of the capital against the Girondist party that they had formerly done against the monarch on the 
I 
oth of August. It is unnecessary to state in detail all the tumults that occurred either in Paris or in the convention during the remaining part of the month of May. On the 31ft, at four o’clock in the morning, the tociin was founded, the generale was beat, and the alarm guns fired. All was commotion and terror. The citizens flew to arms, and assembled round the convention. some deputations demanded a decree of accusation against 35 of its members. The day, however, was spent without decision. On the afternoon of the ist of June an armed force made the same demand. On the 2d of June this was repeated, the tocsin again sounded, and an hundred pieces of cannon surrounded the national hall. At last Barfere mounted the tribune. He was considered as a moderate man, and respected by both parties; but he now artfully deserted the Girondists. He invited the denounced members voluntarily to resign their character of representatives. some of them complied, and the president attempted to dissolve the sitting; but the members were now imprisoned in their own hall. Henriot, commander of the armed force, compelled them to remain; and the obnoxious deputies, amounting to upwards of 90 in number, were put under arrest, and a decree of denunciation against them signed. 
It is obvious, that on this' occasion the liberties of France were trodden under foot. The minority of the national representatives, by the asslstance of an armed force raised in the capital, compelled the majority to submit to their measures, and took the leading members prisoners. Thus the city of Paris assumed to itself the whole powers of the French republic; and the nation was no longer governed by representatives freely cliofen, but by a minority of their members, whose sentiments the city of Paris and the Jacobin club had thought sit to approve of. Human history is a mass of contradictions. The 
Mountain 
party came into power by preaching liberty, and by violating its fundamental principles. How sar the plea of political necessity may excuse their con duct, we shall not venture to decide explicitly. Certain it is, however, that they soon commenced a career of the most terrible energy both at home and abroad that is to be found in the annals of nations. 
The sirst result of their victory in the capital was ca lamitous to the republic at large. Brissot and some other deputies escaped, and endeavoured to kindle the flames of civil war. In general, however, the influence of the Jacobin club, and of its various branches, was such, that the north of France adhered to the convention as it stood; but the southern departments were speedily in a state of rebellion. The department of Lyons declared the 
Mountain 
party outlawed. Marseilles and Toulon followed the example of Lyons, and entered into a confederacy, which has since been known by the appellation of 
Faderalism. 
The departments of La Gironde and Calvades broke out into open revolt. In short, the whole of France was in a state of violent convulsion. still, however, the enthusiastic garrisons of Mentz and Valenciennes protected it against the sm« mediate entrance of a foreign force, and allowed leisure for one of its internal factions to gain an ascendancy, and thereafter to protect its independence. In the mean time, the political entliusiasm of all orders of persons was such, that even the female sex did not escape its contagion. A young woman of the name of Charlotte Cordé, in the beginning of July, came from the department of Calvades to devote her life for what she thought the cause of freedom and of her country. she requested an interview with 
Marat, 
the most obnoxious of the Mountain party. Having obtained it, and con versed with him calmly for some time, she suddenly plunged a dagger in his breast, and walked carelessly out of the house. she was immediately seized and condemned. At the place of execution she behaved with infinite constancy, shouting 
Vive la république. 
The remains of Marat were interred with great splendour, and the convention attended his funeral. His party perhaps derived advantage from the manner of his death, as it seemed to fatten the odious charge of affas sination upon their antagonists, and gave them the appearance of suffering in the cause of liberty. The truth is, that assaffination was sanctioned by both parties under pretence of defending the liberties of the republic. 
One of the sirst acts of the Mountain junto after their triumph was to sinish the republican constitution. Previous to their fall, the Girondists liad brought forward the plan of a constitution, chiefly the work of Condorcet; but it never was sanctioned by the convention, and was too intricate to be practically useful. The new constitution now framed, which was afterwards sanctioned by the nation, but has never yet been put in practice, abolishes the former mode of electing the represeutatives of the people through the medium of 
electoral 
astemblies, and appoints them to be chosen immediately by the 
primary 
assemblies, which are made to consist of from 200 to 600 citizens, each man vo ting by ballot or open vote at his option. There is one deputy for every 40, 000 individuals, and population is the sole basis of representation. The elections take place every year on the ist of May. Electoral astemblies are still retained sor one purpose. Every 200 citizens in the primary assemblies name one elector; and an assembly of all the electors of the department is afterwards held, which elects candidates sor the 
executive council, 
or ministry of the republic. The legissative body chooses out of this list of candidates the members of the executive council. One half of this council is renewed by each legissature in the last month of the seize sion. Every law, after it is passed by the legissative body, is sent to the department. Is in more than half of the departments the tenth of the primary assemblies of each have not objected to it, it becomes effectual.. Trial by jury is established. National conventions may be called for altering the constitution, and 
muß 
be call ed, if · required by the tenth of the primary assemblies of eacll department in a majority of the departments. 
The publication of this constitution procured no small degree of applause to the convention and the Mountain party. The rapidity with which it was formed (being only a fortnight) seemed to cast a just reproach upon the ssowness of their antagonists, and it was regarded as a proof of their being decidedly southeast 
