cannot wonder at finding 
one 
man in thc world who had sense enough to discern it, and virtue enough to oppose such an infamous practice. In all probability, however, the insignisicancy of the sirst reformer was the reason why he was not persecuted and exterminated at his first beginning, as others had been before him. Another reason probably might be, that be did not at once at tack the whole errors of Popery, but brought about his reformation gradually, probably as it occurred to himself and as we have related in the account of his life. 
The Reformation, began in the city of avittemberg in saxony, but was not long confined either to that ci ty or province. In 1520 the Franciscan friars, who had the care of promulgating indulgences in switzer land, were opposed by'zuinglius, a man not inferior in understanding and knowledge to Luther himself. He proceeded with the greatest vigour, even at the very be ginning, to overturn the whole fabric of Popery; but his opinions were declared erroneous by the universities of Cologne and Louvain. Notwithstanding this, the magistrates of Zurich approved of his proceedings; and that whole canton, together with those of Bern, Basil, aild.chaffausen, embraced his opinions. 
In Germany, Luther continued to make great ad vances, without being in the least intimidated by the ecclesiastical censures which were thundered against him from all quarters, he being continually protected by the German princes either from religious or political mo tives, so that his adversaries could not accomplish his destruction as they had done that of others. The princes, who were upon had terms with the court of Rome, took advantage of the success of the new doctrines; and in their own dominions easily overturned a church which had lost all the respect and veneration of the inferior ranks. The court of Rome had disobliged some of the smaller princes in the north of Germany, whom the Pope probably thought too insignisicant to be worth the managing, and they universally established the Reformation in their own dominions. Melancthon, car lostadius, and other men of eminence, also greatly forwarded the work of Luther; and in all probability the Popish hierarchy would have soon come to an end, in the northern parts of Europe at least, had not the emperor Charles V given a severe check to the progress of reformation in Germany. In order to follow out the schemes dictated by his ambition, he thought it necessary to ingratiate himself with the pope; and the most effectual method of doing this was by destroying Luther. The pope’s legates insisted that Luther ought to be condemned by the diet of worms without either trial or hearing; as being a most notorious, avowed, and incorrigible heretic. However, this appeared unjust to the members of the diet, and he was summoned to appear; which he accordingly did without hesitation *. There is not the least doubt that his appearance there had been bis sast in this world, had aot the astoniihing respect that was paid him, and the crowds who came daily to see him, deterred his judges from delivering the church from the author of such a pestslent heresy; which they were*strongly soliscited by the pope’s party to do. He was therefore permitted to depart with a safe conduct for a certain time; after which he was in the state of a proscribed criminal, to whom it was unlawful to perform any of the offices of humanity. 
During the confinement of Luther in a castle near 
warburg, the Reformation advanced rapidly 5 almost every city in saxony embracing the Lutheran opinions. At this time an alteration in the established forms of worship was sirst ventured uponatwsttembergshy abolish ing the celebration of private masses, and by giving the cup as well as the bread to the laity in the lord’s 
slip 
per. In a short time, however, the new opinions were condemned by the university of Paris, and a refutation of them was attempted by Henry VIII of England. But Luther was not to be thus intimidated. He published his animadversions on both with as much acrimony as if he had been refuting the meanest adversary; and a controversy managed by such illustrious antago nists drew a general attention, and the Reformers daily gained new converts both in France alld England. 
But while the efforts of Luther were thus everywhere crowned with success, the divisions began to prevail which have since fo much agitated the reformed church es. The sirft dispute was between Luther and Zuinglius concerning the manner in which the body and blood of Christ were present in the eucharist. Luther and his followers, though they had rejected the notion of transubstantiation, were nevertheless of opinion that the body and blood of Christ were really present in the lord’s supper, in a way which they could not pretend to explain. Carlostadt, who was luther’s colleague, sirst suggested another view of the subject, which was afterwards confirmed and illustiatedby Zuinglius, namely, that the body and blood of Christ were not really present in the eucharist; and that the bread and wine were no more than external symbols to excite the remembrance of christ’s sufferings in the minds of those who received it. Both parties maintained their tenets with the utmost obstinacy; and, by their divisions, sirst gave their adversaries an argument against them, which to this day the Catholics urge with great force; namely, that the Protestants are fo divided, that it is impossible to know who is right or wrong; and that there cannot be a stronger proof than these divisions, that the whole doc trine is false. 
To these intestsue divisions were added the horrors of a civil war, occasioned by oppression on the one hand, and enthusiasm on the other. In 1525·, a great number of seditious fanatics arose na sudden in different parts of Germany, took arms, united their forces, and made war against the empire, laying waste the country with fire and sword, and committing everywhere the greatest cruelties. The greatest part of this furious mob was composed of peasants and vassals, who groaned under heavy burdens, and declared that they were no longer able to bear the despotic government of their chiefs; and hence this sedition had the name of 
the rufiic war, 
or the 
war of the peasants. 
At sirst this rabble declared, that they had no other motives than the redress of their grievances; but no sooner had the enthusiast Munzer, or Munster, the anabaptist, put himself at their head, than the face of things was entirely changed, and the civil commotions in saxony and Thuringia exceedingly increased, of which an account is given under the article Anabaptists. 
In the mean time Frederic, surnamed the 
Wife, 
elec tor of saxony, and luther’s great patron, departed this life, and was sueceeded by his brother John. Frederic, though he had protected and encouraged Luther, yet was at no pains to introduce the reformed religion into 
