plants , allowing an alley between the beds about a foot wide, for conveniency of weeding the plants. In the autumn, when the decayed leaves are removed, if the shovelling of the alleys are thrown over the crowns of the plants, it will be found of service. 
His mode of cultivating the same plant by offsets is thus given : " On taking up some plants the lass spiing, I slipped off several offsets from the heads of large plants : these I set with a dibble about a foot apart, in order, if I found them thrive, to remove them into other beds. On examining them in the autumn, I was surprised to see the progress they had made, and pleased to be able to furnish my beds with 40 plants in the most thriving state. Though this was my sirst experiment of its kind, I do not mean to arrogate the discovery to myself, having known it recently tried by others, but without being informed of their success. I have rea son to think this valuable drug will, by this method, be brought much sooner to perfection than from seed.” 
His method of curing rhubarb is thus described : " The plants may be taken up either early in the spring, or in autumn, when the leaves are decayed, in dry wea there if possible, when the roots are to be cleared from dirt (without washing) : let them be cut into pieces, and with a sharp knife freed from the outer coat, and exposed to the sun and air for a few days, to render the outside a little dry. In order to accelerate the curing of the largest pieces, a hole may be scooped out with a penknife : these and the smaller parts are then to be strung on packthread, and hung up in a warm room ( I have always had the conveniency of such a one over a baker’s oven), where it is to remain till perfectly dry. Each piece may be rendered more ssghtly by a common file, fixing it in a small vice during that operation : afterwards rub over it a very sine powder, which the small roots surnish in beautiful perfection, for this and every other purpose where rhubarb is required.” 
In the year 1794, too, the society adjudged the gold medal to Mr Ball for his method of curing the true rhubarb, which is as follows; " I take the roots up when I sind the stalks withering or dying away, clean them from the earth with a dry brush, cut them in small pieces of about four or sive inches in breadth, and about two in depth, taking away all the bark, and make a hole in the middle, and string them on packthread, keeping every piece apart; and every morning, if the weather is clear and fine, I place them in the open part of the garden, on stages, erected by fixing small posts about six feet high in the ground, and six feet asunder, into which I six horizontal pegs, about a foot apart, beginning at the top; and the rhubarb being stringed cross wise on small poles, I place them on these pegs; so that if it should rain, I could easily remove each pole with the suspended pieces, into any covered place. I never suffer them to be out at night, as the damps at this sea son would be apt to mould them; and if at any time I perceive the least mark of mould, I rub it off with a dry cloth. In some of the pieces of rhubarb which I have cured this year, I have made holes about half an inch diameter in the middle, for the free passage of air, and have found 
that every 
one of these pieces dried 
better 
than the others where no such holes were made; and have likewise hung several ffrings in the kitchen, and never exposed them in the open air, and found them to dry exceedingly well, and much better than those in the open air. some years since I dried a quantity of rhubarb on a malt kiln, keeping up the thermometer to 80 degrees, which answered well, but I think rather dried too quick 
ί 
the roots which I have cured this year are a part of the plantation of 1789, aud for which the society was so kind as to give me a medal A.” 
.” 
in botany : A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the octandria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking with those of the 17th order, 
Calycanthemce. 
The calyx is quadrisid, with four petals inserted into it; the antherae are declining; the capsule is quadrilocular, within the belly of the calyx. 
rhinzanthus, in botany: A genus of the an giospermia order, belonging to the didynamia class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 40th order, 
Perfonatœ. 
The calyx is quadrisid, and ventricose; the capsule bilocular, obtuse, and compres fed. 
RHINE, a large river of Germany, famous both in ancient and modern history. It rises among the Alps Lepontiæ, or Grisons; and sirst traversing the Lacus Acronius, divides the Rhæti and Vindelici from the Helvetii, and then the Germans from the Gauls and Belgæ; and running from south to north for the greatest part of its way, and at length bending its course west, it empties itself at several mouths (Cæfar); at three mouths into the German ocean, (Pliny); viz. the western, or Helius; the northern, or Fleuvus; and the middle between both these, which retains the ori ginal name, 
Rhenus : 
and in this Ptolemy agrees. — Mela and Tacitus mention two channels, and as many mouths, the right and left; the former running by Germany, and the latter by Gallia Belgica : and thus also Asinius Pollio, and Virgil; the cut or trench of Drusus not being made in their time, whereby thc middle channel was much drained and reduced, and therefore overlooked by Tacitus and Mela; and which Pliny calls the 
scanty. 
To account sor cæfar’s several mouths, is a matter of no small difficulty with the commentators; and they do it no otherwise than by admitting that the Rhine naturally formed small drains or rivulets from itself; the cut of Drusus being long posterior to him; in whose time Asinius Pollio, quoted by strabo, who agrees with him therein, affirmed that there were but two mouths, finding sault with those who made them more : and he must mean the larger mouths, which emitted larger streams. The Romans, especially the poets, used the term 
Rhenus 
sor 
Germany, 
(Martial). — At present, the river, after entering the Netherlands at schenkinhaus, is divided into several channels, the two largest of which obtain thc names of the 
Lech 
and the 
Waal, 
which running through the United Provinces, falls into the German ocean be low Rotterdam. 
a) The society also adjudged to Mr Ball the medal in 1790, for cultivating rhubarb. 
