what is above laid down, will enable us to deter nsine a very important question concerning emotions raised by the sine arts, viz. whether ought similar emotions to succeed each other, or dissimilar? The emotions raised by the sine arts are for the most part too nearly related to make a sigure by resemblance; and for that reason their succession ought to be regulated as much as possible by contrast. This holds conscffedly in epic and dramatic composstions; and the best writers, led perhaps by taste more than by rea soning, have generally aimed at that beauty. It holds equally in music : in the same cantata all the variety of emotions that are within the power of music, may not only be indulged, but, to make the greatest sigure, ought to be contrasted. In gardening, there is an ad ditional reason for the rule : the emotions raised by that art, are at best so faint, that every artifice should be employed to give them their utmost vigour : a field may be laid out in grand, sweet, gay, neat, wild, me lancholy scenes; and when these are viewed in succession, 
grandeur ought to be contrasted with neatness, regularity with wildness, and gaiety with melancholy, so as that each emotion may succeed its opposite : nay, it is an improvement to intermix in the succession rude uncultivated spots as well as unbounded views, which in themselves are dlsagreeable, but in succession heighten the feeling of the agreeable object; and we have nature for our guide, which in her most beautiful landscapes often intermixes rugged rocks, dirty marshes, and barren stony heaths. The greatest masters of mu sic have the same view in their compositions : the second part of an Italian song seldom conveys any sentiment : and, by lts harshness, seems purposely contrived to give a greater relish for the interesting parts of the composition. 
A small garden, comprehended under a single view, affords little opportunity for that embeliishment. diffi milar emotions require different tones of mind; and therefore in conjunction can never be pleasant : gai ety and sweetness may be combined, or wildness and gloominess; but a composition of gaiety and gloomi ness is diftastesul. The rude uncultivated compartment of furze and broom in Richmond garden, hath a good effect in the succession of objects; but a spot of that nature would be insufferable in the midst of a polished parterre or flower plot. A garden, therefore, if not of great extent, admits not dissimilar emotions; and in ornamenting a small garden, the safest course is to confine it to a single expression. For the same reason, a landscape ought also to be confined to a single expression;; accordingly it is a rule in painting, that if the subject be gay, every sigure ought to contribute to that emotion. 
It follows from the foregoing train of reasoning, that a garden near a great city ought to have an air of solitude. The folitariness, again, of a waste country ought to be contrasted in forming a garden; no temples, no obscure walks; but 
jets d’eau, 
cascades, objects active, gay, and splendid.. Nay, such a garden should in some measure avoid imitating nature, by taking on an ex traordinary appearance of regularity and art, to show the busy hand of man, which in a waste country has a fine effect by contrast. 
wit and ridicule make not an agreeable mixture 
with grandeur, Dissimilar emotions have a fine effect in a slow succession;; in a rapid succession, which approaches to coexistence, they will not be relished. In the midst of a laboured and elevated description of battle, Virgil introduces a ludicrous image, which is certainly out of its plate : 
Obvius ambustum torrem Chorinæus ab ara Corripit, ct venienti Ebuso plagamque ferenti Occupat of flammis : illi ingens barba reluxit, Nidoremque ambusta dedit. 
'Æn. 
XII 298, 
E qual tauro ferito, il fuo dolore Verso mugghiando e sospirando fuore. 
gierufai 
eant. 4. st. 1. It would however be too austere to banish altoge there ludicrous images from an epic poem. This poem doth not always soar above the clouds : it admits great variety; and upon occasion can defeertd even to the ground without finking. In its more familiar tones, 
a 
ludicrous scene may be introduced without impropriety. This is done by Virgil * in a footrace: : circumstances 
of which, not excepting the ludicroüs part, are copied from Homer f. After a fit of merriment, we are, it is true, the less disposed to the serious and sublime: : then, a ludicrous scene, by unbending the mind from severe application to more interesting subjects, may prevent fatlgue, and preserve our relish entire. 
resen, (Moses); a town on the Tigris, built by Nimrod; thought to be the 
Larijssa 
of Xenophon; which see. But as 
Larijssa 
is a name in imitation of a Greek city; and as there were no Greek cities, con sequently no 
Larissa 
in Assyria, before Alexander the Great; lt is probable that the Greeks asking of what city those were the ruins they saw, the Assyrians might answer, 
Laressen, 
"of 
Rejen; ” 
which word Xenophon expressed by 
Larjssa, 
a more familiar sound to a Greek ear, (wells). 
resentment, means a strong perception of good or ill, generally a deep sense of injury, and may be distinguished into 
anger 
and 
revenge. 
"By anger (says Archdeacon Paley), I mean the pain we suffer upon the receipt of an injury or affront, with the usual effects of that pain upon ourselves. By revenge, the inflicting of pain upon the persun who has injured or offended us, farther than the just ends of punishment or reparation require. Anger prompts to revenge; but it is possible to fuspend the effect when we cannot altogether quell the principle, we are bound also to endea vour to qualify and correct the principle itsels. so that our duty requires two different applications of thc mind : and sor that reason anger and revenge should b.c. considered separately.” see Revenge. 
reservation, in law, an action or clause whereby something is reserved, or secured to one’s self. 
Mental Reservation, 
a proposition which, strictly taken, and according to the natural import of the terms, is false; but, if qualified by something concealed in the mind, becomes true. 
Mental reservations are the great refuge of religious hypocrites, who use them to accommodate their consciences with their intereste : the Jesuits are zealous ad vocates for mental reservations; yet are they real lies, as including an intention to deceive. 
