which sense 
it 
is the same with 
scoria, faces, 
and 
excrementi. 
RECRIMINATION, in law, an accusation brought by the accused against the accuser upon the same fact. 
recruits, in military affairs, new raised soldiers designed to supply the place of those who have lost their lives in the service, or who are disabled by age or _ wounds. 
RECTANGLE, in geometry, the same with 
a right 
angled parallelogram. see Geometry. 
RECTIFICATION, in chemistry, is nothing but the repetition of a distillation or sublirnation several times, in order to render the substance purer, finer, and freer from aqueous and earthy parts. 
Rectieication 
of spirits. 
see Distillation. 
RECTIFIER, in navigation, an instrument consist ing of two parts, which are two circles, either laid one upon, or let into the other, and so fastened together in their centres, that they represent two compasses, one fixed, the other movable; each of them divided into the 32 points of the compass, and 360°, and numbered both ways, from the north and the south, ending at the east and west, in 90e. 
The fixed compass represents the horizon, in which the north and all the other points of the compass are fixed and immoveable. 
The movable compass represents the mariner’s compass;; which the north and all other points are liable to variation. 
In the centre of the movable compass is fastened.a silk thread, long enough to reach the outside of the fixed compass. But if the instrument be made of wood, there is an index instead of the thread. 
Its use is to find the variation of the compass, to rectify the course at sea; having the amplitude or azi muth given. 
RECTIFYING the Globe. 
see 
Geography, 
p. 
656. 
RECTILINEAR, in geometry, right lined; thus figures whose perimeter consists of right lines, are said to be rectilinear. 
RECTITUDE, in philosophy, refers either to the act of judging or of willing; and therefore whatever comes under the denomination of rectitude, is either what is true or what is good, these being the only objects about which the mind exercises its two faculties of judging and willing. 
Moral rectitude, or 'upriglitness, is the choosing and pursuing those tliings which the mind, upon due inqui ry and attention, clearly perceives to be good; and avoiding those that are evil. see 
Moral Philosophy. 
RECTOR, a term applied to several persons whose offices are very different : as, 1. The rector of a parish is a clergyman that has the charge and cure of a parish, and posseffes all the tithes, c. 2. The same name is 
also given to the chief elective officer in several foreign universities, particularly in that of Paris, and also. in those of scotland. It is alsu applied to the head master of large sohools in seotland, as in the high school of Edinburgh. 3. f.ector is also used in several convents for the superior officer who governs the house : itnd the Jesuits give this name to the superiors of such of their houses as are either seminaries or colleges. 
RECTORY, a parish church, parsonage, or spiritual living, with all its rights, tithes, and glebes. 
Rectory is aiso sometimes used for the rector mansion or parsonage house. 
RECTUM, in anatomy, the third and last of 
the 
large intestincs or guts. see Anatomy, n 93. 
rectus, in anatomy, a name common to several pairs of muscles, so called on account of the straightness of their fibres. 
recuperatores, among the Romans, were commissioners appointed to take cognizance of private matters in dispute, between the subjects of the state and foreigners, and to take care that the former had justice done them. It came at last to be used for com rniffioners, to whom the praetor referred the determi nation of any affair between one subject and another. 
recurrents, in anatomy, a name given to southeast veral large branches of nerves sent out by the par vagum from the upper part of the thorax to the larynx, 
recurvirostra, in ornithology; a genus belonging to the order of grallæ of Linnæus, and that of palmipedes of Pennant and Latham. The bill is long, subulated, bent back, sharp and flexible at the point. The feet are webbed, and furnished with three toes forwards, and a short one behind. Mr Latham notes of this genus three species, viz. the Avosetta, or the one commonly known, the Americana, and the Alba. This last, it is probable, has some affinity to the Americana. The recurvirostra avosetta is about the size of a lapwing in body, but has very long legs. The substance of the bill is soft, and almost membranous at its tip; it is thin, weak, slender, compressed horizontally, and incapable of defence or effort. These birds are variegated with black and white, and during the win ter are frequent on the eastern shores of Great Britain. They visit also the severn, and sometimes the pools of shropshire. They feed on worms and insects, which they scoop out of the fand with their bills. They lay two eggs, white, with a greenish hue, and large spots of black; these eggs are about the size of a pigeon’s. — They are found also in various parts of the continent of Europe, in Russia, Denmark, and sweden, but they are not numerous. They are also found in siberia, but oscener about the fait lakes of the Tartarian desert, and about' the Caspian sea. They are found likewise on the coasts of Picardy in France in April and November, and at Orleans, but rarely. In breeding time they are very plentiful on the coasts of Bas Poictou. They do not appear to wander farther south in Europe than 
Italy, whether from timidity or address, the avoset shuns snares, and is not easily taken. The American avoset is rather larger and longer than the last. The bill is similar, and its colour black : the forehead is dusky white : the head, neck, and upper part of the breast, arc of a deep cream colour : the lower parts of the neck behind white : the back is black, and the uif der parts from the breast pure white : the wings are partly black, partly white, and partly ash coloured. These birds inhabit North America, and were found by Dampier in shark’s Bay, on the coast of New Holland. see Plate CCCCXXXV. 
The recurvirostra, or scolopax alba, is about 14 inches and a quarter long, its colour white, the inferior coverts of its wings duskish, its bill orange, its legs brown. Edwards remarks, that the bill of this bird is bent upwards, as in the avoset; its bill black at the tip, and orange the 
rest 
of its length; all the plumage is white, 
