loyalty , the national cockade, which had been adopt ed by some of the gardes du corps, was thrown aside, and white cockades were supplied as quickly as they could be made by the ladies of the court. 
When these events were next day reported at Paris, accompanied by a multitude of exaggerations, they gave rise to the most violent alarm. The capital was at that time suffering all the horrors of famine; and in such a situation, the news of a feast which others have enjoyed, seldom gives much pleasure to hungry men. To the former report of an intended flight on the part of the royal family, it was now added, that a counter revolution was speedsly to be attempted by force of arms; and that thc present scarcity was artificially cre ated by the court for the purpose of reducing the peo ple to submission. Their aristocratic antagonists have since asserted, that the famine was indeed artificial; but that it was created by a portion of the violent party in the national assembly, which was then denominated the 
Cabal,, 
whose object was to excite commotions as the means of procuring an opportunity of setting the duke of Orleans at the head of the state, either as regent, or in some other form. To this last party Mirabeau is said to have belonged. 
For four days no notice was taken in the assembly of what had passed at the entertainment given by the gardes du corps. On the 5th of October M. Petion mentioned it for the sirst time, and a violent debate ensued; during which Mirabeau rose and exclaimed, “Declare that the king’s person 
alone 
is sacred, and I myself will bring forward an impeachment thereby alluding to the conduct of the queen. while this debate wa pro ceeding at Versailles, thc city of Paris was in commotion. A vast multitude of women of the lowest rank, with some men in womens clothes, had assem bled at the 
Hotel de Ville, 
and were casling aloud for arms and bread. They resolved to proceed instantly to Versailles to demand bread from the king and from the national assembly. Lafayette opposed them in vain; for his own soldiers resused to turn their bayonets against the women. Upon this one stanislaus mail lard, who had distinguiihed himself at the taking of the Bastile, offered himself as a leader to the insurgents. He had the addvess to prevail with them to lay aside such arms as they had procured; and he set out sor ver sailles about noon with as much order among his sol iowers as could well be expected from such an assenp blage. Either because the passion for going to Versailles had suddenly become too infectious to be resisted, or because the multitude already gone thither was now ac counted dangerous, the mayor and municipality of pa ris thought sit to give ordeis to lafayette instantly to set out for that place at the head of the national guard. 
In the mean time, Maillard approached Versailles with his tumultuous troop; hc arranged them in three divisions, and persuaded them to behave with tolerable decency. The king was hunting in the woods of Mendon when he was informed of the arrival of a most formidable band of women calling aloud for bread. " Alas! (replied he) if I had it, I should not wait to be asked.” Maillard entered the assembly accompa nied by a deputation of his followers to state the object of their journey. The assembly, to pacify them, 
lent a 
deputation of their own number along with them to 
lay their complaints before the king. Hiâ majesty received the whole with great politeness, and readily agreed to go into any measures for the supply of the capital that could be suggested. The report of this behaviour had such an effect upon the multitude collected around the palace, that they began to difperse; but they were speedily succeeded by another crowd not less numerous. A sudden resolution of flight seems now to have been proposed by the court; for the king’s carriages were brought to the gate of the palace which communicatee with the Orangey : but the hatsonal guard of Versaillee refused to allow them to pass, and the king himself resused to remove, or to allow any blood to be shed in his cause. 
Lafayette with his army at length arrived about 10 o’clock at night, and found the assembly in a very unpleasant situation. Their hall and galleries were crowded by the Parisian fish women and others of the mob, who, at every instant, interrupted the debates. Lafayette waited upon the king, and informed him of the proceedings of the day, planted guards in every quarter; and after a scanty banquet had been procured for the multitude, he prevailed with the assembly to close their sitting sor the night. In this 
last 
part of his conduct M. lafayette has been much censured, and probably not without reason; for it could scarcely be expected that such a night would be spent in peace by the immense assemblage of turbulent characters that were now brought together. All was quiet, however, till about six in the morning of the 6th, when a great number of women and desperate persons rushed forward to the palace, and attempted to force their way into it. Two of the gardes du corps were kissed; the crowd aseendid the staircase leading to the queen’s apartment, but were bravely resisted by M. Miemandre a sentinel, who gave the alarm, and defended his post till he fell covered with wounds, of which, however, he afterwards fortunately recovered. The russians, reeking with his blood, rushed into the chamber of the queen, and pierced with bayonets and poniards the bed whence this 
persecuted woman had but just time to fly almost naked, and, through ways unknown to the murderers, had esca ped to seek refuge at thc feet of the king, who w as al ready alarmed, and had gone to seek her. 
Ί he tumult became more violent every moment, and sudden death seemed to threaten the royal family; but lafayette was by this time at the head of his troops, whom he beseeched earnestly to save the gardes du corps from massacre. In this he was successful;; that had been taken prisoners were surrounded by the grenadiers of the French guards who protected them, and the retreat of the whole corps was easily secured. The crowd was speedisy driven from the different quar ters of the palace, which they were already beginning to pillage; and the royal family ventured to show themselves at a balcony. A few voices now exclaimed 
Le Roi à Paris, 
"the King to Paris.” sshe shout be came general; and the king, after consulting with lafayette, declared that he had no objection to take up his residence at Paris, provided he was accompanied by the queen and his children, when the proposal was reported to the assembly, the popular leaders expressed much satissaction. They ordered a deputation of 100 members to attend the king thither; they voted the national assembly inseparable from the king. 
His 
majesty 
