their joint bent backwards. This joint, which, when the animal lies, is covered with a remarkable fold of the skin, appears when he stands. The tail is thin, and proportionally short; that of the rhinoceros so often mentioned, exceeded not 16 or 17 inches in length. It turns a little thicker at the extremity, which is gar nished with some short, thick, hard hairs. The form of the penis is very extraordinary. It is contained in a prepuce or sheath like that of the horse; and the sirst thing that appears in the time of erection is a second prepuce, of a ssesh colour, from which there issues a hollow tube, in the form of a funnel cut and bordered somewhat like a flower de luce, and constitutes the glans and extremity of the penis. This anomalous glans is of à paler ssesh colour than the second prepuce. Tn the most vigorous erection, the penis extends not above eight inches out of the body; and it is easily procured by rubbing the animal with a liandsul of straw wlien lie lies at his ease. The direction of this organ is not straiglit, but bent backward. Hence lie throws out his urine behind; and from this circumstance, it may be inferred that the male covers not the female, but that they unite with their cruppers to each other. The female organs are situated like those of the cow; and she exactly resembles the male in sigure and grossness of body. The skin is so thick and impenetrable, that when a man lays hold of any of the folds, he would imagine he is touching a wooden plank of half an inch thick b). when tanned, Dr Grew remarks, it is excessively hard, and thicker than the hide of any other terrestrial animal. It is everywhere covered more or less with in erustations in the form of galls or tuberosities, which are pretty small on the top of the neck and back, but become larger on the sides. The largest are on the shoul ders and crupper, are still pretty large on the thighs and legs, upon which they are spread all round, and even on thc feet. But between the folds thc skin is penetrable, delicate, and as soft to the touch as silk, while the external part of the fold is equally hard with the rest. This tender skin between the folds is of a light flesh colour; and the skin of the belly is nearly of the same colour and consistence. These galls or tubero sities should not be compared, as some authors have done, to scales. They are only stmple indurations of the skin, without any regularity in their sigure or symmetry in their respective positions. The flexibility of the skin in the folds enables the rhinoceros to move with facility his head, neck, and members. The whole body, except at the joints, is inflexible, and resembles a coat of mail. Dr Parsons remarks, that this animal listened with a deep and long continued attention to any kind of noise; and that, though he was sseeping, 
eating, or obeying any other pressing, demands of nature, he raised his head, aud listened till the noise ceased.” 
These animals never assemble or march together in troops like elephants. Being of a more solitary and sa vage disposition, they are more difficult to hunt and to overcome. They never attack men, however, except when they are provoked, when they are very furious and formidable; but as they see only before them,; and 
not very sharply, and as they turn with great difficulty, they may be easily avoided. The skin of these animals is so extremely hard as to resist sabres, lances, javelins, and even musket balls, the only penetrable parts being the belly, the eyes, and about the ears. Hence the hunters generally attack them wlien they lie down to sleep. — Their slesh is considered as excellent hythe Indians and Africans, but especially by the Hottentots; and if they were trained when young, they might be rendered, domestic, in which case they would multiply more eastly than the elephant. They inhabit Bengal, siam, col chin china, Quangsi in China, the isles of Java and sumatra, Congo, Angola, Ethiopia, and the country as low as the Cape. They love shady forests, the neigh bourhood of rivers, and marshy places. They wallow in the mire like hogs, and are said by that means to give shelter in the folds of their skins to scorpions, centipedes, and other insects. This is denied by Buffon and ed wards, though the surgeon of the shafteshury had ob served in a rhinoceros, newly taken after having welter ed in the mud, several insects concealed under the ply of the skin. This carries with it every appearance of probability; for as the creature welters in mud, it is impossible for it to do so without bringing up with it some of the insects which live in that mud; and when this is the case, it surely cannot be unnatural to suppose that they would shelter themselves under the plaits of the skin. Mr Bruce had an opportunity of examining the skin of a rhinoceros before his muddy covering had been scraped off, and saw under it several very large worms, but not of the carnivorous kind. He saw like wise several smaller animals resembling car wigs, which he took to be young fcolopendræ; and, though he searched no farther, we must certainly conslder this as a proof of what the surgeon of the shafteshury re lated. Mr Bruce supposes, too, that they welter in mire, partly in order to sereen themselves by a case of mud from the attacks of that mischievous fly which in fests the animals of Abyssinia to filch a degree. " The time of the fly (says he) being in the rainy season, the whole black earth turns into mire. In the night, when the fly is at rest, the rhinoceros chooses a convenient place, and there, rolling himself in the mud, he clothes himself with a kind of case, which defends him against his enemy the following day. The wrinkles and plaits of his skin serve to keep this muddy plaster sirm upon him, all but about his hips, shoulders, and legs,, where it cracks and falls off by motion, and leaves hime exposed in those places to the attacks of the fly. The itching and pain which follow occasion him to rub himself in those parts against the roughest trees; and this is at least one cause of the pustules or tubercles whichi we see upon these places, both on the elephant and rhino ceros.” They bring forth only one young at 
a 
time,, about which they are very solicitous They are said to confort with tigers; a story founded merely on their common attachment t the sides of rivers, by which, means they are often found near each other. Their skin,, flesh, hoofs, teeth, and even dung, are used in India medicinally. The horn, especially that of a virgin rhinoceros, is considered as an antidote against poison. Every 
b) 
This Mr Bruce denies to be the case, and suspects, where it does occur, that it is the effect of disease, or sa different habit acquired by keeping. In their natural state, he thinks they prevent this rigidity by wallowing ia the mud. 
