the Austrsans, whom he repulsed Hearing, however, of tile defeat of Dillon, he retreated. A third parry advanced to Furnes, but afterwards withdrew. Lafayette at the same time advanced towards Bouvines, halfway to Namur, from which he afterwards retreated. The whole of these expeditions were ill contrived, in as much as they divided the French undisciplined troops, and exposed them in small bodies to the attack of veteran forces. The Austrians were some time before they attempted to retaliate. At length, however, on the iith of June, they attacked M. Gouvion, who commanded the advanced guard of La fayette’s army near Maubeuge. M. Gouvion was killed by a rolling bullet; but Lafayette himself having come up, the Austrians abandoned the field. In the mean time, matters were hastening in Paris towards a violent crisis. Two parties, both of which were hostile to the present constitution, had gradually been formed in the state. The one wished to give more effectual support to the royal authority, by establishing a 
finale 
or 
two chambers, 
to prevent the king’s vote from being the sole check upon popular enthusiasm. The other party wish ed to set aside royalty altogether, and to hazard the bold experiment of converting France into a republic. These last were supported by the Jacobin club, which had now contrived to concentrate in itself an immense mass of influence. Innumerable popular societies were established in every town and village throughout the provinces, with these a regular correspondence was kept up by writing and by emissaries. Thus schemes and notions were instantaneously propagated through a great empire, and all the violent spirits which it con tained were enabled to act in concert : Eut the more immediate engine of the republican party consisted of the immense population of the metropolis, whom they now endeavoured to keep in constant alarm. For this purpose they alleged, that an 
Austrian Committee, 
that is to say, a conspiracy in favour of the enemies of the coun try, existed among the friends of the court. Μ. M. Genfonné and Brissot even offered in the assembly to prove the existence of this pretended Austrian committee. À report was next circulated, that the king intended to abseond from the capital on the 23d of May. Fiis majesty publicly contradicted these accusa tions as calumnies, but they made no small impression upon the minds of the public. New decrees were now made against the refractory clergy, but these his majesty resused to sanction. A proposal was also made and decreed in the assembly to form a camp of 20, 000. men under the walls of Paris, and that for this levy every canton in thc kingdom should contribute one horseman and four infantry. The national guard of Paiis dis liked the proposal, and the king gave to it his negative. Indeed at this time the king seems to have come to a resolution of standing out against the Jacobin party, to which he had sor some time yieldedt The ministry were therefore dismissed, excepting M. Dumourier, and others were appointed in their stead. By this event Dumourier lost die confidence of the Jacobin club. Hé saw his error, resigned his office, and joined the army! In the mean time a decree had been passed, authorising the manufactory of pikes for the purpose of arming cheaply the lower class of citizens. Ail means were used to render^the king odious by inflammatory .writings 
and harangues; 
and 
in both of these the noted 
incendiary Marat took the lead. 
On the 20th of June M. Roederer, the Procureur Ge _ syndic informed the national assembly, that, contrary to law, formidable bodies of armed men were preparing to present petitions to the king, and to the national assembly. A part of them speedily appeared with st Huruge and santerre a brewer at their head. They marched through the hall in a procession that lasted two hours, at four o’clock in the afternoon, to the number of about 40, 000. They surrounded the Thuilleries. The gates were thrown open; and on an attempt to break the door of the apartment, where the king then was, he ordered them to be admitted. His filler the princess Elizabeth never departed from his side during four or sive hours that he was surrounded by the multitude, and compelled to listen to every ini dignity. Ali this while Petion, the mayor of Paris, was unaccountably absent. He at length, however, arrived, and also a deputation from the assembly. The queen, with her children and the princess de Lamballe, were in the mean time in the council chamber, where, though protected from violence, they were yet exposed to much insult. At last, in consequence of the approach of evening, and of the entreaties of Petion, the multitude gradually dispersed. 
The indignities sussered on this day by the royal sa mily were in some respects not unfavourable to their cause. A great number of the most respectable inhabitants of the capital were ashamed of such proceedings. They complained of them severely in a petition to the assembly, and addresses to the same purpose were received from several departments. The directory of the department of Paris, at the head of which were M;. Rochefaucault and M. Tulleyrand, published a declaration disapproving of the conduct of the mayor, and of M. Manuel the procureur of the commune, whom they. afterwards suspended from their offices, although they were speedily restored by a decree of the assembly. At the same time, Lafayette leaving his army suddenly, appeared on the 26th at the bar of the national assembly. Iffe declared that he came to express the indignation which the whole army felt on account of the events of the 20th : he called upon the assembly to pu nish the promoters of these events, and to dissolve the factious clubs. The sudden appearance of Lafayette threw the Jacobins into consternation, and from that period they never ceased to calumniate him. 
On the ist of July, on the motion of M. Jean de Brie, the assembly ordered'a proclamation to be made, that 
the country was in danger. 
On the 6th, the king gave intimation that the king of Prussia was marching with 52, 000 men to cooperate against France. The French arms were at this time somewhat successful in the Austrian Netherlands; but the cabinet speedily thought it necessary to order the armies to retreat : a measure which was. afterwards ■ publicly censured by Marshal Luckner. 
On the 7th, a singular, scene occurred in the nation al assembly. At the instant that M. Brissot was about to commence an oration, M. Lammourette bishop of Lyons requested to be heard for a few minutes. He expatiated on the necessity of union among the members of the assembly, anchos sacrisicing their passions and pre 
