feme of 
the principal inhabitants of that iflenst, by whom he was so strongly recommended to thç bishop 
of 
lon don, that on his coming home with sir Charles mid dleton, who warmly joined in the recommendation, he was admitted into orders; after which he immediate ly returned to st christopher’s, where he was present ed by the governor to two rectories, valued at 700i. a year. 
As sooh as he took possession of his livings, in 1763, he married Miss Rebecca Akers, the daughter of a planter of the best family connexions in the issand, and began to regulate his household on the pious plan incul cated in his 
Esssay on the Treatment and Conversion of the African slaves in the British sugar Colonies. 
He sum moned all his own ssaves daily to the prayers of the fa smly, when he took an opportunity of pointing out to them their duty in the plainest terms, reproving thole that had done amiss, and commending such as had shown anything like virtue 5 but he confessed that his occa jlons for reproof were more frequent than for commen dation. As became his office and character, he incul cated upon others what he practised himself, and knew to be equally the duty of all. " On his sirst settlement Bs a minister in the west Indies, he made some public attempts to instruct ssaves. pie began to draw up some casy, plain discourses for their instruction. He invited them to attend on sundays, at particular hours. He appointed hours at home to instruct such sensible ssaves as would of themselves attend. He repeatedly exhorted their matters to encourage such in their attendance. He re commended the French custom, of beginning and ending work by prayer. But inconceivable is the listless ness with which he was heard, and bitter was the cen sure heaped on him in return. It was quickly suggest ed, and generally believed, that he wanted to interrupt the work of ssaves, to give them time, forsooth, to say their prayers; that he aimed at the making of them Christians, to render them incapable of being good Haves. In one word, he stood, in opinion, a rebel convict against the interest and majesty of plantership. And as the Jews say, that in every punishment, with which they have been proved, since the bondage 
of 
Egypt, there has been an ounce of the golden caff of Horeb; so might he say, that in every instance of prejudice (and they were not a few) with which, till within a year or two of his departure from the country, he was exerci sed, there was an ounce of his fruitless attempts to improve the minds of slaves. In the bidding prayer, he had inserted a petition for the conversion of those per sons. But it was deemed fo disagreeable a memento, that several white people, on account of it, left off attending divine 
fervicç. 
He was obliged to omit the prayer entirely, to try and bring them back. In short, neither were the ssaves, at that time, desirous of being taught, or were their matters inclined to encourage them.” 
That he was hurt by this neglect cannot be question cd, for he had a mind benevolent, warm, and irritable; but he still retained many friends amongst the most wor thy members of the community : and as he was conscious of having done nothing more than his duty, he con soled himself with reflecting, that those are " blessed whom men revile, and persecute, and speak all manner of evil against falsely, for the sake of 
the 
gospel.” 
Although his serious studies were now theological, 
ke 
considered himself as answerable to God, his country, and his own family, for a proper use of ever)' branch of knowledge which he posfessed. He therefore took the charge of fever al plantations around him in the capacity of a medical practitioner; and attended them with unremitting diligence, and with great success. Thus he livedt till the year 1777, when relinquishing the practice of physic entirely, he paid a visit to the place of his na tivity, which he had not seen since 1755. mother, whose latter days he had made comfortable by a handsome annuity, had been dead for some years; but he re warded all who had been attentive to her, or in early life serviceable to himself; and he continued the pensioi» to a sister who had a numerous family, for which bv husband was unable to provide. 
After remaining three weeks in scotland, and near a year in England, during which time he was admitted into the confidence of Lord George Germaine, secre tary of state for the American department, Mr Ramsay was appointed chaplain to Admiral Barrington, then going out to take a command in the west in dies. Under this gallant officer, and afterwards under Lord Rodney, he was present at several engage ments, where he displayed a fortitude and zeal for thc honour of his country which would not have disgraeed the oldest admiral. To the navy, indeed, he seems to have been strongly attached; and he wrote, at an early period of his life, an 
Fssay on the Duty and Qualifications of a sea officer, 
with such a knowledge of the service as would have done honour to the pen of the most ex perienced commander. Of the first edition of this essay the profits were by its benevolent author appropriated to the Magdalen and British lying in hospitals, as those of the second and third (which last was published about the period of which we now write) were to the maritime school, or, in the event of its failure, to the marine society. 
Although caressed by both the admirals under whom he served, and having such influence with the latter as to be able to render essential services to the Jews and other persons whom he thought harshly treated at the capture of'st Eustatius, Mr Ramsay once more quitted the sea service, and retired to his pastoral charge in the Island of st christopher’s. There, however, though the former animosities against him had entirely subsided, and though his friendship was now solicitcd by every person of consequence in the island, he remained but a little while. sick of the life of a planter and of the pro spect of slavery around him, he resigned' his livings, bade adieu to the island, and returned to England with his wife and family in the end of the year 1781. Immediately on his arrival, he was, through the interest of his steady friend sir Charles Middleton, presented to the livings of Teston and Nettlestead in the county of Kent. 
Here he was soon determined, by the advice of those whom he most respected, to publish an 
Eofay, 
which had been written many years before, 
on the Treatment and Conversion of African slaves in the British sugar Colonies. 
The controvelsy in which this publication invol ved him, and the acrimony with which it was carried on, are so fresh in the memory of all our readers, that no man who thinks of the narrow limits within which our biographical articles must be confined, will blame us for not entering into a detail of the particulars— — of obloquy were poured upon the benevolent author by writers who were unfair enough to conceal 
