money , or other reward or gratuity whatsoever, to the gaoler of such gaol on any pretence whatsoever; and every gaoler demanding or receiving any fee for the discharge of any such person, or keeping any fnch person prisoner after the said respective times limited by the said act, shall forfeit five pounds, to be recovered in a summary way before two justices of the peace, one moiety thereof to be paid to the overseers of the poor of the parish where the offence shall be committed, and the other to the informer. 
REQUIEM, in the Romish history, a mass sung for the rest of the soul of a person deceased. 
rescission, in the civil law, an action intended sor the annulling or setting aside any contract, deed, c. 
rescript, an answer delivered by an emperor, or a pope, when consulted by particular persons on some difficult question or point of law, to serve as a decision thereof. 
reseda, dyer’s wef.d, 
tellow weed, Weld, 
or 
wiid wnad : 
A genus of the order oftrigynia, belonging to the dodecandria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking' under the 54th order, 
Miscellanea. 
the calyx is monophylious and partite; the petals lan ciniated; the capsule unilocular, and opening at the mouth. There are 11 species; of which the most remarkable is the luteola or common dyer’s weed, growing naturally in waste places in many parts of Britain. The young leaves are often undulated; the stalk is a yard high, or more, terminated with along nakedspike of yellowish green flowers : the plant is cultivated and much used sor dying silk and wool of a yellow colour. The great recommendation of the plant is, that it will grow with very little trouble, without dung, and on the very worst soils. For this reason it is commonly sown with, or immediately aster, barley or oats, without any additional care, except drawing a bush over it to harrow it in. The reaping of the corn does it little or no hurt, as it grows but little the first year; and the next summer it is pulled and dried like flax. Much care and nicety, however, is requisite, so as not to injure either the seed or stalk; or, which sometimes happens, damaging both, by letting it stand too long, or pulling lit too green. To avoid these inconveniences, a better method of culture has been devised. This new method is to plough and harrow the ground very fine,, without dung, as equally as possible, and then sowing about a gallon of seed, which is very small, upon an acre, some time in the month of August. In about two months it vzill be high enough to hoe, which must be carefully done, and the plants lest about six inches asunder. Tn March it is to be hoed again, and this labour is to be repeated a third time in May. About the close of June, when the flower is in full vigour, and the stalk is become of a greenish yellow, it should be pulled; a sufficient quantity of stems being left growing for seed till september. By this, means the flower and stalk, both of them being carefully dried, will sell at a good price to the dyers, who employ it constantly, and in large quantities; add to this, that the seed being ripe and in perfect order, will yield a very considerable profit. In 
a 
tolerable year, when the seasons have not been unfavourable, the advantages derived srom tins vegetable will answer very well; but if the summer should be remarkably sine, and 
proper care 
is taken in getting it in, 
there 
will be a very large produce upon an acre. The crop being, as has been shown, so early removed, the ground may be conveniently prepared for growing wheat the next year. Upon the whole, weld is in its nature a very valuable commodity in many respects, as it serves e qnally for woollen, linen, or silk; dyeing not only a rich and lasting yellow, but also, properly managed, all the different shades of yellow with brightness and beauty; and if these be previoussy dipped blue, they are by the weld changed into a very pleasing green, which our artists can also diversify into a great variety of shades. 
resemblance, (Dissimilitude, the relations of likeness and difference among objects. see Comparison. 
The connexion that man hath with the beings around him, requires some acquaintance with their nature, their powers, and their qualities, for regulating his conduct. For acquiring a branch of knowledge so essential to our well-being, motives alone of reason and interest are not sufficient : nature hath providentially superadded curio sity, a vigorous propensity, which never is at rest. This propensity alone attaches ns to every new object j;; incites us to compare objects, in order to diseover their differences and resemblances. 
Resemblance among objects of the same kind, and dissimilitude among objects of different kinds, are too obvious and familiar to gratify our curiosity in any degree: : gratification lies in diseovering differences among things where resemblance prevails, and resem blances where difference prevails. Thus a difference, in individuals of the same kind of plants or animals, is deemed a diseovery, while the many particulars in which they agree are neglected; and in different kinds, any resemblance is greedily remarked, without attending to the many particulars in which they differ,. 
A comparison of the former neither tends to gratify our curiosity, nor to set the objects compared in a stronger light : two apartments in. a palace, similar in shape, size, and furniture, make separately as good a sigure as when compared; and the same observation is applicable to, two similar compartments in a garden; on the other hand, oppose a regular building to a fall of water, or a good picture to.a towering hill, or even a little dog to a large horse, and the contrast will produce no effect. But a resemblance between objects of different kinds, and a difference between objects of' the same kind, have remarkably an enlivening effect. Thc poets, such of them as have a just taste, draw all their similes from things that in the main differ widely from the principal subject; and they never attempt a contrast, but where the things have a common ge nus, and a resemblance in the capital circumstances : place together a large and a small sized animal of the same species, the one will appear greater, the other less, than when viewed separately : when we oppose beauty to deformity, each makes a greater figure by the comparison. \ve compare the dress of different nations with curiosity, but without surprise because, they have no such resemblance in · the capital'parts as to please us. by contrasting the smaller parts. But 
a 
new cut of a steeve, or of a pocket, enchants by its novelty; arid, in opposition to the former fashion, raises some degree of surprise. 
That resemblance and dissimilitude have an enliven 
