Newton has shown that the resistance arising from this cause is constant, or the same in every velocity; and when he has taken off a certain part of the total resist ance, he sound the remainder was very exactly proportionable to the square of the velocity. His experiments to this purpose were made with balls a very little heavier than water, so as to descend very slowly; and they were made with his usual care and accuracy, and may be depended on. 
In 
the experiments made with bodies floating on the surface of water, there is an addition to the resistance arising from the inertia of the water. The water heaps up a little on the anterior surface of the floating body, and is depressed behind it. Hence arises a hydrostatical pressure, acting in concert with the true resistance. A similar thing is observed in the resistance of air, which is condensed before the body and rarefied behind it, and thus an additional resistance is produced by. the unbalanced elàfticity of the air; and also because the air, which is 
actually 
displaced, is denser than common air. These circumstances cause the resistances to increase faster than the squares of the velocities : but, even independent of this, there is an additional resistance arising from the tendency to rarefaction behind a very swift body; because the pressure of the surrounding fluid can only make the fluid sill the space left with a determined velocity. 
we have had occasion to speak of this circumstance more particularly under Gunnery and Pneumatucs, when considering very rapid motions. Mr Robins had remarked that the velocity at which the observed re srstance of the air began to increase so prodigiously, was that of about i ioo or 1200 feet per second, and that this was the velocity with which air would rush into a void. He concluded, that when the velocity was great er than this, the ball was exposed to the additional re sistance arising from the unbalanced statical pressure of the air, and that this constant quantity behoved to be added to the resistance arising from the air's inertia in all greater velocities. This is very reasonable : But he imagined that in smaller velocities there was no such unbalanced pressure. But this cannot be the case : for although in smaller velocities the air will still sill up the space behind the body, it will not sill it up .with air of the same density. This would be to suppose the motion of the air into the deserted place to be instantane ous. There must therefore be a rarefaction behind the body, and a pressure backward; arising from unbalan ced elasticity, independent of the condensation on the anterior part. The condensation and rarefaction are caused by the same thing, 
viz. 
the limited elasticity of the air. were this infinitely great, the smallest condensation before the body would be instantly diffused over the whole air, and so would the rarefaction, so that no pressure of unbalanced elasticity would be observed; but thé elasticity is such as to propagate the condensation with the velocity of sound only, 
i. e. 
the velocity of I j 42 feet per second. Therefore this additional re sistance does not commence precisely at this velocity, but is sensible in all smaller velocities, as is very justly observed by Euler. But we are not yet able to aseer tain the law of its increase, although it is a problem which seems susceptible 
of 
a tolerably accurate solution. 

Precisely 
similar to 
this is the 
resistance to the motion 
of floating bodies, arising from the accumulation or gorging up of the water on their anterior fursace, and its depression behind them, were the gravity of the water infinite, while its inertia remains the 
same, 
the wave raised up at the prow of a ship would be instantly diffused over the whole ocean, and it would therefore be infinitely smali, as also the depression behind the poop. But this wave requires time for its diffusioil; and while it is not diffused, it acts by'hydrofe tscal pressure. ave are equally unable to ascertain the law of variation of this part of the resistance, the me chanism of waves being but very imperfectly under stood. The height of the wave in the experiments of the French academy could not be measured with suffi cient precision (being only observed 
en pafiemt) 
sor ascertaining its relation to the velocity. The Chev. Buat attempted it in his experiments, butwithoutsuccefs. Thia must evidently make a part of the resistance in all velocities: : it still remains an undecided question, "what relation it bears to the velocities?” when the solid body is wholly buried in the fluid, this accumulation doea not take place, or at least not in the same way : It 
may, however, be observed. Every person may recol lect, that in a very swift running stream a large stone at the bottom will produce a small swell above it; unless it lies very deep, a nice eye may still observe it. The water, on arriving at the obstacle, glides past it in every direction, and is deflected on all hands; and therefore what passes over it is also deflected upwards, and causes the water over it to rise above its level. The nearer that the body is to the surface, the greater will be the perpendicular rise of the water, but it will be less diffused; and it is uncertain whether the 
whole 
elevation will be greater or less. By the whole elevation we mean the area of a perpendicular section of the ele vation by a plane perpendicular to the direction of the stream. we are rather disposed to think that this area will be greatest when the body is near the surface D’ulloa has attempted to consider this subject seienti fically; and is of a very different opinion, which he confirms by the single experiment to he mentioned by and by. Mean time, it is evident, that if the water which glides past the body cannot fall in behind it with sufficient velocity for filling up the space behind, there must be a void there; and thus a hydrostatical pressure must be superadded to the resistance arising from the inertia of the water. All must have observed, that if the end of a stick held in the hand be drawn slowly through the water, the water will sill the place left by the stick, and there will be no curled wave : but .if the motion be very rapid, a hollow trough or gutter is left behind, and is not filled up till at some distance from the stick, and the wave which forms its fides is very much broken and curled. The writer of this article has often looked into the water from the poop of a second-rate man of war when she was sailing 11 miles per hour, which is a velocity of 16 seet per second nearly; and he not only observed that the back of the rudder was naked for about two seet below the load water line, but also that the trough or wake made by thc ship was filled up with water which was broken and foaming to a considerable depth, and to a consider able distance from the vessel: There must therefore have been 
