reserve , 
in 
lav, the same with reservation, see 
Re 
ss.k.vat1on. 
Body of Reserve, or Corps de Reserve, 
in military affairs, the third or sast line of an army, drawn up for battle; fo called because they are reserved to sustain the rest as occasion requires, and not to engage but in case of necessity. 
reservoir, a place where water is collected and reserved, in order to be conveyed to distant places through pipes, or supply a fountain or jet d’eau. 
reset, in law, the receiving or harbouring an outlawed person. see Outlawry. 
Reset of Thtft, 
in scots law. see Law, CLXXXVI 2 9· 
residence, in the canon and common-law, the abode of a person or incumbent upon his bentsice; and his assiduity in attending on the same. 
resident, a public minister, who manages the affairs of a kingdom or state, at a foreign court. 
They are a class of public ministers inferior to ambassadors or envoys; but, like them, are under the protection of the law 
of 
nations. 
Residue, the remainder or balance of an account, debt, or obligation. 
resignation, ill general, sigmsies the implicit submission of ourselves, or of something we possess.. the will of another. In a religious sense it signifies a perfect submission, without discontent, to the will of God. see Moral Philosophy, n 119. 
resin, in natural history, a viscidjuice oozing either spontaneoussy, or by incision, from several trees, as the pine, sir, c— — premium for several years has been offered by the London society for Encouraging Arts, c. for discovering a mode of reducing the inflammable quality of resin, so as to adapt it to the purposes of making candles; but no such discovery has yet been made. 
Fdafic Resin. 
see Caoutchouc. 
Gum Resin, 
a mixture of gum and resin. see Pharmacy, n 38. 
Red Gum Resin, 
is procured from the red gum tree, or eucalyptus refinifera; a tree so large and lofty as to exceed in size the English oak. The wood of the tree is brittle, and of little use but for firewood, from the large quantity of resinous gum it contains. The tree is distinguished by having pedunculated flowers, and an acute or pointed conical calyptra. To obtain the juice from this tree incitions are made in the trunk of it, and sometimes upwards of 60 gallons of red refluons juice have been obtained from one of them. " when this juice is dried, it becomes a very powerful astrin gent gum resin, of a red colour, much reserabling that known in the shops by the name of 
kino, 
and, for all medical purposes, 
suliy 
as efficacious. Mr white ad ministered it to 
a 
great number of patients in the dy sentery, which prevailed much soon after the landing of the convicts, and in no one inssance found it to fail. This gum resin dissolves almost entirely in spirit of vine, to which it gives a bloodred tincture, water dissolves about one sixth part only, and the watery solution is cf a bright red. Both these solutions are powerfully astringent.” 
Fellow Gum Resin, 
is procured from the yellow resin tree, which is as large as the English walnut tree. The properties of this 
resin 
are equal to those of the 
most fragrant balsams. It exudes from 
the bark speri 
taneously, but more readily if incisions are made. The colour of it is yellow, and at 
sitst 
it is fluid; but after being inspissated in the sun, it becomes solid. When burnt on hot coals, it smells like a mixture of balsam of Tolu and benzoin, approaching somewhat to storax. 
"It is perfectly soluble in spirit of wine, but not in water, nor even in essential oil of turpentine, unless it be digested in a strong heat. The varnish which it makes with either is very weak, and of little life, with respect to its medicinal qualities, Mr white has found, it, in many cases, a good pectoral medicine, and very balsamic. It is not obtainable in so great abundance as the red gum produced by the eucalyptus reiinisera the plant which produces the yellow gum seems to be perfectly unknown to botanists, but Mr white has communicated no specimens by which its genus or even class could be determined.” 
resinous electricity, is that kind of elec tricity which is produced by exciting bodies of the re sinous kind, and which is generally negative. see 
ELECTRICITY 

pqssm. 
resistance, or 
Resisting Force, 
in philosophy, denotes, in general, - any power which acts in an opposite direction to another, so as to destroy or di minish its effect. see Mechanics, Hydrostatics, and Pneumatics. 
Of ail the resistances of bodies to each, there is undoubtedly noue of greater importance than the re sistance or reaction of fluids. It is here that we must look sora theory of naval architecture,, for the impulse of the air is our moving power, and this must be modified fo as to produce every motion we want by the form and disposition of our sails; and it is the resistance of the water which must be overcome, that the ship may proceed in her course; and this must also be modified to our purpose, that the ship may not drive like a log to leeward, but on he contrary may ply to windward, that she may answer her helm briskly, and that she may be easy in all her motions on the surface of the troubsed ocean. The im pulse of wind and water makes them ready and inde satigable servants in a thousand shapes for driving our machines; and we should lose much of their service did we remain ignorant of the laws of their action : they would sometimes become terrible masters, if we did not fall upon methods of eluding or softening their attacks. 
we cannot refuse the ancients a considerable knowledge of this subject. It was equally interesting to them as to us; and we cannot read the accounts of the naval exertions of Phoenicia, Carthage, and of Rome, exertions which have not been surpasted hy anything of modern date, without believing that they possessed much practical and experimental knowledge of this subject. It was not, perhaps, possessed by them in a strict and syftematic form, as it is now taught by our matliema ticians; but the master builders, in their dockyards, did undoubtedly exercise their genius in comparing the forms of their sinest ships, and in. marking those circumstances of form and dimension which were 
in facts 
accompanied with the desirable properties of a ship, and thus framing to themselves maxims of naval archi tecture in the same manner as we do now. For we 
