by his Maker; and though this doctrine, in large and permanent societies, might certainly be conveyed more or less pure to late posterity through the channel of tradition— — are far from attributing so much to tradition as some writers are disposed to do, or thinking it the only source from which mankind could derive the belief of their existence beyond the grave. In small tribes of savages such a tradition could hardly be preserved; and yet some indistinct notions of a future state have been found among tribes who are said to have lost all tradi tionary notions even of the being of a God. 
Others, therefore, are inclined to believe that, independent of any traditions, mankind might be led by certain phenomena to form some conjectures of a future [state. They observe, that although a few individuals perhaps may, yet it seldom happens that the whole individuals of any nation are exempted from dreaming : They observe, too, and this observation is founded on experience, that the images of the dead are from the remaining impressions of memory frequently summoned up in the fancy; and that it appears from all the lan guages of rude nations, who pay the greatest attention to their dreams, and who speak of feeing the dead in their visions, that these images A) have always been taken by them for realities; nay, some of the learned, and the celebrated Baxter is of the number, are dispo sed to doubt whether these appearances be not some thing more than illusions of the brain : But whether they really be so or not, one thing is certain, that all nations in all countries, in the darkest ages and the ru dest periods, are accnstomed to dream; and whether sseeping or waking, in the stillness of the night, in the gloom of solitude, in the fondness of friendship, in the rovings of love, the delirium of fever, and the anguish of remorse, .to see and converse with the shades of the departed; and Lucretius * has remarked,, that even the inferior animals are not exempted from such illusions of a restless fancy. 
Fer often sseeping racers pant and sweat, 
Breathe short, as if they ran their second heat; 
As if the barrier down with eager pace 
They stretch’d, as when contending for the race. 
And often hounds, when sseep hath clos’d their eyes 
They toss, and tumble, and attempt to rise; 
They open often, often snuss the air, 
As if they pressed the footsteps of the deer; 
And sometimes wak’d, pursue their fancy’d prey, 
The fancy’d deer, that seem to run away, 
Till quite awak’d, the follow’d shapes decay, 
And softer curs, that lie and sseep at home, 
Do often rouse, and walk about the room, 
And'bark, as if they saw sonae strangers come? 
And birds will start, andseek the woods, by night, } whene’er the faney’d hawk appears in sight, 
Ç 
whene’er they see his wing or hear him fight. 
j 
Çkbech. 
These powers of fancy extend wide over animal creation 
; and it is 
on 
this general principle that necro mancers and dreamers have in all ages established their trade, that the stories of goblins have at all times so very easily procured belief, and that 
The village matron, round the blazing hearth, suspends the infant audience with her tales, Breathing astonishment! Of witching rhymes And evil spirits; of the deathbed call Of him who robb’d the widow and devour’d The orphan’s portion; of unquiet souls ris’n from the grave to ease the heavy guilt Of deeds in life' conceal’d; of shapes that walk At dead of night, and clank their chains, and wave The torch of hell around the murderer’s head. 
Aikenside. 
Mankind in general would willingly dispense with these troublesome visits of the dead. To prevent the return of the 
zumbi 
or the ghost, some nations of afri ca use many superstitious rites; and Kolben tells usr that the frighted Hottentots leave in the hut where a person has died all the utensils and furniture, lest the angry ghost, incensed at their avarice, should haunt them in their dreams, and infest. them in the night. Divines and moralists have laboured to show that these are merely imaginary terrors: but God and nature seem to have determined that they shali produce the same essects upon certain minds as if they were real y and that while there is any sensibility in the heart, while there is any remembrance of the past, and any conju ring power in the fancy; the ignorant, the benighted, the timid, shall often meet with the goblins of darkness, the spectres of the tomb, the apparitions that hover round the grave, and the forms of the dead in the midnight dream. see spectre. 
From these phenomena, which have been fo common in all countries and in all ages, what would mankind naturally infer? would they not infer, that there is something in the nature of man that survives death, and that there is a future state of existence beyond sthc grave? Are not still many specimens of this reasoning preserved in the ancient poets? and is it not thus that Achillesf reasons after imagining that he saw the ghost of his friend Patroclus? 
’tis true, 'tis certain, man, though dead, retains 
Part of himself; the immortal mind remains : 
The form subsists without the body’s aid, 
Aerial semblance, and an empty shade. 
This night my friend, so late in battle Iost, 
stood at my side a pensive plaintive ghost j 
ev’n now familiar as in life he came, 
Alas! how diss’rent, yet how like the same. Pope, 
Lucretius, a studious observer of nature, though no friend to the foul’s immortality, acknowledges frankly that these phantoms often terrify the mind, haunt us in our sseep, and meet us while awake. He confesses, too, that by such appearances mankind have been led 
a) 
These images were calied by the Greeks; an d among the Romans they had various names, 
as 
umbra, lémures, manes, larva, 
and were sometimes called 
occursacula no Ilium, bujlorum formidamina, sepulchro^ 
rum terriculamenta, animœ errantes, 
which arc all comprehended under the 
speeies mortuorum, 
