there is nothing that 
seems to command it 
but a 
small hill at some distance, which is undermined and may be blown up. It was taken by Amurath III with the loss of 20, 000 men; but was surprised soon after by Count Palsi, who killed all the Turks that were found therein. It is seated at the confluence of the rivers Rab and Rabnitz, not far from the Danube, 32 miles west of Gran, and 55 fouth east of Vienna. E. Long. 17. 25. N. Lat. 47. 48, 
RAB AC, a small port on the Arabian coast of the Red sea, in N. Lat. 22° 35' 40'' by Mr bruce’s ac count. The entry to the harbour is from the E. N. E. and is about a quarter of a mile broad. The port extends about two miles in length to the eastward. The mountains are about three leagues to the north, and the town about four miles north by east from the entrance to the harbour. The water is good, and all ships may be supplied here from the wells which are in the neigh bourhood of the town. The country is bare and uncultivated;; from the appearance of it, and the freshness of the water, Mr Bruce supposes that it some times rains among the mountains here, which is the more probable as it is considerably within the tropic. 
RABAT, a large and handsome seaport town of Africa, in the kingdom of Fez and province of treme sen. It has fine mosques and handsome palaces, and is seated at the mouth of the river Burrigrig, almost in the midway between Fez and Tangier. W. Long. 5. 28. N. Lat. 34. 40. 
Rabat, together with sahee, which is opposite to it, was formerly famous for fitting out piratical vessels;; the late emperor sidi Mahomet subdued them both, and annexed them to the empire; since which time the harbour of Rabat has been so filled with the fand wash ed in by the sea as to render it unfit to carry on such piracies in future. 
The town of Rabat, whose walls inelofe a large space 
of 
ground, is defended on the seaside by three sorts to lerably well sinished, which were erected some little time ago by an English renegado, and furnished with guns from Gibraltar. The houses in general are good, and many of the inhabitants are wealthy. The Jews, who are very numerous in this place, are generally in better circumstances than those of Larache or Tangier, and their women are extremely beautiful. 
The castle, which is very extensive, contains a strong building, formerly used by the late emperor as his prin cipal treasury, and a noble terrace, which commands an extensive prospect of the town of sallee, the ocean, and all the neighbouring country. There are also the ruins 
of 
another castle, which is said to have been built by Jacob Almonzor, one of their former emperors, and of which at present very little remains but its walls, con taining within them some very strong magazines for powder and naval stores. On the outside of these walls is a very high and square tower, handsomely built of cut stone, and called the tower of 
Hassin. 
From the workmanship of this tower, contrasted with the other buildings, a very accurate idea may be formed how great ly the Moors have degenerated from their former splen dour and taste for aichitecture. 
RABBETTING, in carpentry, the planning or cut ting of channels or grooves in boards, c. 
In ship carpentry, it signsses the letting in of the planks 
of 
the ship into the keel; which, in the rake and 
run of a ship, is hollowed away, that the planks 
may 
join the closer. 
RABBI, or Rabbis, a title which the Pharisees and doctors of the law among the Jews assumed, and literally signifies 
masters 
or 
excellents. 
There were several gradations before they arrived at the dignity of a rabbin; which was not conferred till they had acquired the profoundest knowledge of the law and the traditions. It does not, however, appear that there was any fixed age or previous examination necessary;; when a man had distinguished himself by his skill in the written and oral law, and passed through the subordinate degrees, he was saluted a rabbin by the public voice. 
Among the modern Jews, for near 700 years past, the learned men retain no other title than that of 
rabbi, 
or 
rabbis 
; they have great respect paid them, have the sirst places or seats in their synagogues, determine all matters of controversy, and frequently pronounce upon civil affairs; they have even power excommunicate the disobedient. 
rabbinists, among the modern Jews, an appellation given to the doctrine of the rabbis concerning traditions, in opposition to the Caraites; who reject all traditions. see Caraite. 
rabelais (Francis), a French writer famous for his facetiousness, was born at Chinonin Touraine about the year 1483.. He was sirst a franciscan’friar; but quitting his religious habit studied physic at Montpelier, where lie took his doctor’s degree. It is said, that the chancellor du Pratt ha ing abolished the privileges of the faculty of physic atv Montpelier by a decree of the parliament, Rabelais h ad the address to make him revoke what he had don e; and that those who were made doctors of that university wore rabelais’s robe, which is there held in great veneration. some time after, he came to Rome, in quality of physician in ordinary to Cardinal John du Bellay archbishop of Paris. Rabelais 
is 
fait! to have used the freedom to jeer Pope Paul III to his face. He had quitted his religious connexions for the sake of leading a life more agreeable to his taste; but renewed them on a second journey to Rome, when he obtained, in 153 6, a brief to qualify him for holding ecclesiastical benefices; and, by the interest of his friend Cardinal John du Bellay, he was received as a southeast cular canon in the abbey of st Maur near Paris. His profound knowledge in physic rendered him doubly useful;; being as ready, and at least as well qualified, to prescribe for the body as for the soul : but as he was a man of wit and humour, many ridiculous things are laid to his charge, of which he was quite innocent. He published several things; but his chief performance is a strange incoherent romance, called the 
iistory of Gargantua and Pantagruel, 
being a satire upon priests, popes, fools, and knaves of all kinds. This work contains a wild, irregular profusion of wit, learning, obscenity, low conceits, and arrant nonsense; hence the shrewd ness of his satire, in some places where he is to be un derstood, gains him credit for those where no meaning is discoverable. some allusions may undoubtedly have been so temporary and local as to be now quite lost : but it is too much to conclude thus in favour of every unintelligible rhapsody; for we are not without English writers of great talents, whose sportive geniuses have betrayed them into puerilities, no less incoherent at 
