the nation has the imprescriptible right 
of 
changing its constitution; and nevertheless considering that it is more conformable to the national interest to employ only by means provided in the constitution itself, the right of reforming those articses of it, of which experience shall have shown the inconveniences, decrees, that the proceeding by an assembly of revision shali be regulated in the form following: 
“when three successive legissatures shall have expressed au uniform wish for the change of any constitu tional article, the revisson demanded shali take place. 
"The next legissature, and the following, cannot propose the reform of any constitutional article. 
"The fourth legissature, augmented with 249 members, chosen in each department, by doubling the ordinary number which it furnishes in proportion to its population, shall form the assembly of revision.” 
The French colonies and possessions in Alia, Africa, and America, " though they form part of the French empire, ” are not included in the present constitution. 
with respect to the laws made by the national ase sembly which are not included in the act of constitu tion, and those anterior laws which it has not altered, they shall be observed, so long as they shall not be revoked or modified by the legissative power. 
On the 13th of september the King announced, by a letter to the President of the Assembly, his accept ance of the constitution. This event was ordered to be notified to all the foreign courts, and the Assembly decreed a general amnesty with respect to the events of the revolution. On the following day the King repaired sin person to rhe National Assembly; and being conducted to a chair of state prepared for him at the side of the President, he signed the constitutional act, and took an oath of fidelity to it. He then withdrew, and was attended back to the Thuilleries by the whole Assembly, with the President at their head. On the 30th of september, this National Assembly, which has since been known by the name of the 
confutuent ajfem bly, 
dissolved itself, and gave place to the succeeding 
Leststative National Assembly, 
which had been elected according to the rules prescribed by the new constitu tion. 
On the character and the labours of the 
Constituent Assembly, 
we shall only remark, that it contained many men of talents, and, in all probability, a considerable number of men of integrity. Towards the close of its session, it assumed a very striking character of modera tion, and appears to have been completely monarchical, although its jealousy of the ancient aristocracy pre vented it from sufficiently guarding the throne against popular violence; for a very striking defect in the new coustitution soon appeared. The King posseffed a 
veto, 
or negative, upon the resolutions of the legislative body: but this negative he was bound to exercise in 
person, 
without responsibility, and without the intervention of his ministers. He had no senate, or upper chamber, to stand between him and popular violence; and there was something apparently absurd in settling the vote of an individual, 
»1 
opposition to the collective wisdom and will of a whole nation. In consequence of this, he was reduced to the hard alternative of yielding to every vote of the National Assembly, or of exposing himself personally to public odium. 
The new Assembly was opened by the King on the 
7th of October, with much apparent union op. all sides. His speech, recommending unanimity aud confidence between the legissative and executive powers, was received with unbounded applause. The character of the men who composed the new National Assembly was unauspicions to the Court. At the commencement of the revolution, the great body of the people at a distance from the capital were little interested in those projects of freedom which occupied the more enlightened or more turbulent inhabitants of Paris. They had gra dually, however, been roused from their lethargy. The variety of powers conferred by the new constitution upon the people at large, and the multiplicity of offices of which it gave them the patronage, had kindled in the minds of men a love of dominion, and a wish to inter fere in public affairs. This attached them to the new order of things. The love of power, which is the least difguised passion in the human heart, and equally strong in the breast of the meanest and of the highest of mankind, was thus, under the name of liberty, become a leading passion throughout this wide empire. They who flattered it most, and were most loud in praise of the rights of the people, became speedily the favourites of the public. The consequence of this was, that the new National Assembly was chiefly composed of country gentlemen, of principles highly democratic, or of men of letters who had published popular books, or conducted periodical publications. The members of the Constituent Assembly had been excluded by their own decree from holding seats in the new legislature. — The members of the latter, therefore, had little regard, for a constitution which they themselves had not framed, and which was not protected by the venerable sanction of antiquity. 
when this Assembly sirst met, it showed a very trissmg attentlon to formalitles, and a peevlsh jealousy of the ministers of the crown. In the mean time, the treaty of Pilnitz, already mentioned, began to be rumoured abroad, and France was thrown into a state of anxious jealousy for the sasety of its newly acquired liberties. Although the Prussians and Germans (the Elector of Mentz alone excepted) all continued to temporise, the northern powers, sweden and Russia, entered into strict engagements to restore the old def potism of France. On the 9th of November, a decree was passed, that the emigrants who, after the sirst of January next, should be found assembled, as at present, in a hostile manner, beyond the frontiers, should be considered as guilty of a conspiracy, and suffer death; that the French Princes, and public functionaries, wlio should not return before that period, should be punish able in the same manner, and their property forfeited during their own lives. On the 18th, a series of severe decrees was also passed against such of the ejected clergy as still refused to take the civic oath. To both these decrees the King opposed his 
veto, 
or negative. — The moderate party,, who were attached to the consti tution, rejoiced at this as a proof of the freedom of their sovereign. But, on the other side, it excited a most violent clamour, and became the means of exciting new sufpscion of the wishes of the Court. At this time. answers were received from thc different foreign Courts to the notification sent them of the king’s acceptance of the new constitution. These were generally conceived in a style of caution, and avoided giving 
