dent . There can he no evidence that any traditional revelation is of divine original, in the words we receive it, and the sense we understand it, so clear and so certain as that of the principles of reason: and, there fore, nothing that is contrary to the clear and sclf ævident dictates of reason, has a right to be urged or assented to as a matter of faith, wherein reason has 'nothing to do. 
Revelation of 
st John. 
see Atocalypsî. revels, entertainments of dancing, masking, act 
■ comedies, farces, c. anciently very frequent in the inns of court and in noblemens houses, but now much disused. Thc officer who has the direction of the revels at court is called the 
Master of the Revels. 
REVENGE, means the return of injury for injury, 
■and differs materially from that sudden resentment which rises in the mind immediately on being injured; which, so far from being culpable when restrained within due bounds, is absolutely necessary for felf preservation. Revenge, on the contrary, is a cool and deliberate wickedness, and is often executed years after the offence was given; and the desire of it is generally the effect of •littleness, weakness, and vice; while, to do right, and to suffer wrong, is an argument of a great soul, that scorns to stoop to suggested revenges. 
Revenge is but a frailty incident 
To craz’d and sickly minds; the poor content 
Of little souls, unable to surmount 
An injury, too weak to bear affront. 
Dryden. 
Revenge is generally the concomitant of savage minds, of minds implacable, and capable of the most horrid barbarities; unable to fet any limits to their displeasure, they can confine their anger within no bounds of reason. 
Cruel revenge, which still we find 
The wcakest frailty of a feeble mind. 
Degenerous passion, and for man too base, 
It seats its empire in the savage race. 
Juvenal. 
The institution of law prevents the execution of private revenge, and the growth of civilization shows its impropriety. Though in modern tmies a species of revenge is sanctioned by what is called the law of honour, which evades the law of the land indeed, but which is equally mean and disgraceful as the other kinds, and is of consequences equally baneful. see Anger, Duelling, and Resentment. 
REVENUE, the annual income a person receives from the rent of his lands, houses, interest of money in the stocks, c. 
Royal Revenue, 
that which the British constitution hath vested in the royal person, in order to support his dignity and maintain his power; being a portion which each subject contributes of his property, in order to secure the remainder. This revenue is either 
ordinary 
or 
extraordinary. 
I. The king’s 
ordinary 
revenue is such as has either subsisted time out of mind in the crown.; or 
else 
has been granted by parliament, by way of purchase or exchange for such of the king’s inherent hereditary revenues as were found inconvenient to the subject. — In saying that it has subsisted time out of mind in the .crown, we do not mean that the king is at pre 
sent in the actual possession of the whose of his revenue. Much (nay the greatest part) of it is at this day in the hands of subjects; to whom it has been grant ed out from time to time by the kings of England : which has rendered the crown in some measure dependent on the people sor its ordinary support and sub sistenee. so that we must be obliged to recount, as part of the royal revenue, what lords of manors and other subjects frequently look upon to be their own absolute rights; because they and their ancestors are and have been vested in them for ages, though in reality originally derived from the grants of our ancient princes. 
1. 
The first of the king’s ordinary revenues, which may be taken notice of, is of an ecclesiastical kind (as are also the three succeeding ones), viz. the custody of the temporalities of bishops. see Temporalities. 
2. 
The king is entitled to a corody, as the law calls it, out of every bishopric; that is, to send one of his chaplains to be maintained by the bishop, or to have 
a 
pension aliowed him till the bishop promotes him to a benefice. This is also in the nature of an acknowledgement to the king, as founder of the see, since he had formerly the same corody or pension from every abbey or priory of royal foundation. It is supposed to be now fallen into total disuse } though sir Matthew Hale says, that it is due of common right, and that no prescrip tion will discharge it. 
3. The king also is entitled to all the tithes ari sing in extra parochial places : though perhaps it may be doubted how sar this article, as well as the last, can be properly reckoned a part of the king’s own royal revenue; since a corody supports only his chaplains, and these extra parochial tithes are held under an im plied trust that the king will distribute them for the good of the clergy in general. 
4. The next branch consists in the sirst frui/.s and tenths of ali spiritual preferments in the kingdom. see Tenths. 
5. 
The next blanch of the king’s ordinary revenue (which, as well as the subsequent branches, is of a lay or temporal nature) consists in the rents and profits of the demesne lands of the crown. These demesne lands, 
terne dominicales regis, 
being either the share reserved to the crown at the original distribution of landed property, or such as came to it afterwards by forfeitures or other means, were anciently very large and extensive;; diverse manors, honours, and lord jsliips; the tenants of which had very peculiar privi leges, when we speak of the tenure in ancient demesue. At present they are contracted within a very narrow compass, having been almost entirely granted away to private subjects. This has occasioned the parliament frequently to interpose;; particularly after King william III had greatly impoverished the crown, an act passed, whereby all future grants or leases from the crown for any longer term than 31 years or three lives, are declared to be void; ■ except with regard to houses, which may be granted for 50 years. And no reversionary lease can be made, so as to exceed, together with the estate in being, the same term of three lives or 31 years; that is, when there is a subfisting lease, of which there are 20 years still to come, the king can not grant a future interest, to commence after the ex piration of the former, sor any longer term than 11 
