therefore those mines which are properly royal, aud to which the king is entitled when found, are <?nly those of silver and gold. see Μι northeast. 
13. To the same original may in part be referred the revenue of treasure trove. see 
treasure trove. 
14. waifs. see waif. 
15. Estrays. see Estray. 
Besides the particular reasons, given in the different articles, why the king should have the several revenues of royal sish, shipwrecks, treasure trove, waifs, and estrays, there is also one general reason which holds sor them all; and that is, because they are 
bona vacantia, 
or goods in which no one else can claim a property. And, therefore, by the law of nature, they be longed to the sirst occupant or finder; and so continued under the imperial law. But, in fettling the modern conststutions of most of the governments in Europe, it was thought proper (to prevent that strife and contention which the mere title of occupancy is apt to create and continue, and to provide for the support of public authority in a manner the least burdensome to individuals) that these rights should be annexed to the su preme power by the positive laws of the state. And io it came to pass, that, as Bracton expresses it, " hæc, ‘‘ quæ nullius in bonis font, et olim fuerunt inventoris " de jure naturali, jam efficiuntur principis de jure gentium.” 
16. The next branch of the king’s ordinary revenue conlists in forfeitures of lands and goods for offences; 
bona confifcata, 
as they are called by the civilians, because they belonged to the 
fscus 
or imperial treasury; or, as our lawyers term them, 
foris facta, 
that is, such whereof the property is gone away or departed from the owner. The true reason and only substantial ground of any forfeiture for crimes, conssst in this; that all property is derived from society, being one of those civil rights which are conferred upon individuals, in ex change for that degree of natural freedom which every man must sacrisice when he enters into social communities. If, therefore, a member of any national community violates the fundamental contract of his association, by transgreffing the municipal law, he forfeits his right to such privileges as he claims by that contract;; the state may very justly resume that portion of property, or any part of it, which the laws have before assigned him. Hençe, in every offence of an atrocious kind, the laws of England have exacted a total consiscation of the movables or personal estate; and, in many cases, a perpetual, in others only a temporary, lpss of the offender’s immoveables or landed property; and have vested them both in the king, who is the persun supposed to be offended, being the one visible magistrate in whom the majesty of the public resides. see Forfeiture and Deodand. 
i 7. Another branch of the king’s ordinary revenue arises from escheats of lands, which happen upon the defect of heirs to succeed to the inheritance; where upon they in general revert to and vest in the king, who is esteemed, in the eye of the law, the original pro prietor of all lands in the kingdom. 
18. The last branch of the king’s ordinary revenue, consists in the custody of idiots, from whence we shall be naturally led to consider also the custody of lunatics. see Idiot and Lunatic. 
This may suffice for a short view of the king’s 
ordinary 

revenue, or the proper patrimony of the crown j which was very large formerly, and capable of being increased to a magnitude truly formidable : for there are very few estates in the kingdom that have not, at some period or other since the Norman conquest, been veiled in the hands of the king, by forfeiture, escheat, or otherwise. But, fortunately for the liberty of the subject, this hereditary landed revenue, by a series of improvident management, is sunk almost to nothing; and the casual profits, arising srom the other branches of the 
census regalis, 
are likewise almost all of them alienated srom the crown. In order to supply the deficiencies of which, we are now obliged to have recourse to new methods of raising money, unknown to our early ancestors; which methods constitute. 
„ II The king’s 
extraordinary 
revenue. For, the public patrimony being got into the hands of private subjects, it is but reasonable that private contributions should supply the public service. which, though it may perhaps shall harder upon some individuals, whose ancestois have had no share in the general plunder, than upon others, yet, taking the nation .throughout, it amounts to nearly the same; provided the gain by the extraordinary should appear to be no greater than the loss by the ordinary revenue. And perhaps, if every gentleman in the kingdom was to be stripped of such of his lands as were formerly the property of the crown, was to be again subject to the inconveniences of purveyance and preemption, the oppression of fo· rest laws, and the slavery of’feodal tenures; and was to resign into the king’s hands all his royal franchises of waifs, wrecks, estrays, treasure trove, mines, deo dands, forfeitures, and the like; he would sind himself a greater loser than by paying his 
quota 
to such taxes as are necessary to the support of government. The thing, therefore, to be wished and aimed at 
in 
a land of liberty, is by no means the total abolition of taxes, which would draw aster it very pernicious con sequences, and the very supposition of which is the height of political absurdity. For as the true idea of government and magistracy will be found to consist in this, that some few men are deputed by many others to prestde over public affairs, so that individuals may the better be enabled to attend their private concerns it is necessary that those individuals should be bound, to contribute a portion of their private gains, in order to support that government, and reward that magistracy, which protects them in the enjoyment of their respective properties. But the things to be aimed at are wisdom and moderation, not only in granting, but also in the method of raising, the necessary supplies j by contriving to do both in such a manner as may be most coducive to the national welfare, and at the same time most conststent with economy and the liberty of the subject; who, when properly taxed, contributes only, as was before observed, some part of his property in order to enjoy the rest. 
These extaordinary grants are usually called by the synonymous names of 
aids, fubfdies, 
and 
supplies;; 
are granted by the commons of Great Britain, in par liament assembled. see Parliament and Tax. 
The clear net produce of the several branches of the revenue, after ali charges of collecting and ma nagement paid, amounted in the year 1786 to about L 15>397>ooq sterling, whste the expenditure was. 
