trine of scripture; but how far his reasons can be here justisied we mean not to determine; we shall leave that to be fettled by others, reminding them only that the distance of future rewards and punishments is not greater on the supposition of the sleep of the soul than on the contrary hypothesis. Every man who has but dipped into the science of metaphysics knows, and no man ever knew better than he who is believed to have been the author of the work before us, that time unperceived passes away as in an instant; and that if the soul be in a state void of confciohfnefs between death and the resurrection, the man who has lain in his grave iooo years will appear to himself to have died in one moment and been raffed in the next, we would like wise recommend to those who may henceforth be inclined to inculcate anything as a doctrine of scripture merely on account of its supposed expediency, always to remember that God is above, that they are below, that he is omniscient, that they are of yestcrday and know little, that their words therefore should be wary and few, and that they should always speak with respect of whatever concerns the sovereign of the universe, or relates to his government either in the natural or mo ral world. For wilt thou, says the Highest, disannul 
my judgement? avilt thou condemn me that thou mayest 

be righteous? shall he that contendeth with the al mighty instruct him? He that reproveth God let him answer it. 
If, in stating these opposste opinions, we may seem to have favoured what has been called the sseep of the soul, it is not from any conviction of its truth, for there are particular texts of scripture which appear to us to militate against it. w6 are satissied, however, that it is a very harmless opinion, neither injurious to the rest of the articles of the Christian faith nor to virtuous practice; and that those who have poured forth torrents of obloquy upon such as may have held it in sim plicity and godly iincerity, have either mistaken the doctrine which they condemned, or been poffested by a spirit less mild than that of the gospel x). 
whatever be the fate of the middle state, the resurrection stands on a different basss. It is repeatedly asserted in scripture; and those grounds on which we believe it are authenticated facts, which the affectation, the ingenuity, and the hatred of sceptics, have numberless times attempted in vain to disprove. 'Fhefe facts we are now to conssder, referring our readers for the character of the witnesses, the authenticity of the 
go 
spel history, and the possibility of miracles, to the parts of this work where these subjects are treated (see Miracle, Metaphysics, Part I. Chap. VII and Religion); or, should more particular information be required, to the writings of Ditton, sherlock, and weit. 
o 
nr Lord, after proving his divine million by the miracles which he wrought, and by the completion of ancient predictions in which he was described, declared 
Vol. XVI Part I. 
that the doctrine of a resurrection was one of those truths which he came to announce. To show that such an event was possible, he restored to life the daughter of Jairus, a ruler of the synagogue, a young man of Nain, who was carried out on his bier to be buried, and his friend Lazarus, whose body at the time was thought to have become the prey of corruption. Though the two sirst of these miracles were wrought in the presence of a number of witnesses, yet the last, owing to particular circumstances, produced a much greater noise among tile Jews. It was performed on a person seemingly of some note, in the village of Bethany, not far from Jerusalem, and in the presence of a great many persons who from the metropolis had come to condole with 
Mary and Martha. No doubts were entertained of the reality of lazarus’s death. Our Lord was at a distance when he expired, and his body had already been lying for some days in the grave, when he came forth at the voice of our Lord, all were astonished. Those from Jerusalem, on returning home, are impatient to relate what they had seen; those who heard of so memorable an event cannot conceal it; the report reaches the ears of the Pharisees and chief priests. They are soon made acquainted with every circumstance; and dreading the issue, they think it necessary to call a council upon the occasson, and concert the measures that ought to be pursued in a matter which was likely to be attended with so many and important consequenccs. In this council, it seemed to be agreed that our Lord had performed, and was still continuing to perform, many miracles: : this last miracle, as being of an extraordinary kind, would make many converts; and that if measures were not speedily taken to prevent these uncommon displays of his power, all would believe on him : the jealousy of the Romans would be excited, the rulers deposed, and the nation of the Jews deprived of its few remaining privileges. Yet, notwithstanding these private concessions made in the council, the members who dreaded to let their sentiments be known to the people, affect in public to treat our saviour as an impostor. But he who already had demonstrated the absurdity of their opinion, who supposed that his miracles were wrought by Beelzebub prince of the devils, is again ready to confute the ridiculous assertion of those who pretended to say that they were a deception. His friend Lazarus was still living at the distance of only a sew miles, and many of the Jews who had gone to see him were ready to attest the truth of the report. Is the rulers, apprehending the consequences of the truth, be afraid to know it, and is they are unwilling to go to Bethany, or to send sor Lazarus and those who were present at his resurrection, our Lord gives them a fair opportunity of detecting his fraud, is there was any such to be sound in him. To preserve their power, and re move the jealous suspicion of the Romans, it had been already determined in council to put him to death; and 
X) Perhaps no man has been more culpable in this respect than the celebrated warburton, who seems at sirst to have himsels denied an intermediate state of conseious existence. He afterwards imagined that such a state is supposed, though not expressly asserted, in scripture; and at last he maintained it with all the zeal and warmth of a proselyte. To prove the sincersty of his conversion, he treated his adversaries with scurrilous •nicknames, banter, and abuse; a species of reasoning which seldom 
succeeds 
in recommending a 
bad cause, and which never confers credit on one that 
is good. 
