expected ); it remained, however, quite sost, and was easily bruised, but returned to its original dusky colour" 
"the most accurate observatsons of the smoke from the three calcinations, I could not diseover either colour or smell that indicated any arsenical or sulphure ous mixture. 
“Having therefore calcined this matter in three por tions, with three different degrees of fire, I presented a good magnet to each : it did not act either on the sirst or second; a slight attraction was visible in many places on the third : this persuaded me, that this earth contains a martial principle in 
a 
metallic form, and not in a vitriolic substance" 
"nature of these substances then being discovered, their volcanic origin appears; for iron, the more it is exposed to violent calcination, the more it is divided by the loss of its phlogistic principle; which cannot naturally happen but in the great chimney of a volcano. Calcareous salt, being a marine salt combined with a calcareous substance by means of violent heat, cannot be otherwise composed than in a volcano. 
"As to their dreaded effects on animals and 
vegetables, every 
one knows the advantageous life, in medi cine, both of the one and the other, and this in the same form as they are thus prepared in the great labo ratory of nature. 
“Vegetables, even in flower, do not appear in the least macerated, which has formerly happened from on ly showers of fand. 
"How this volcanic production came to be mixed with water may be conceived in various ways. 
"Ætna, about its middle regions, is generally surrounded with clouds that do not always rise above its summit, which is 2900 paces above the level of the sea. This matter being thrown out, and descending upon the clouds below it, may happen to mix and fall in rain with them in the usual way. It may also be conjectured, that the thick smoke which the volcanic matter contained might, by its rarefaction, be carried in the atmosphere by the winds over that tract of country; and then cooling fo as to condense and become specisi cally heavier than the air, might descend in that colour ed rain. 
“I must, however, leave to philosophers (to whom the knowledge of natural agents belongs) the examination and explanation of such phenomena, confining myself to observation and chemical experiments.” 
Rain, a well built and fortified town of Bavaria, one of the keys of this electorate, on the Lech, 20 miles west of Ingolstadt. N. Lat. 48. 51. E. Long. 11. 12. 
rain bird. 
see Cuculus, n 8. 
RAINBOW. see Optics, Part Π. sect. i. § 1. 
In the Philosophical Transactions for 1793, we have the following account of two rainbows seen by the Rev. Mr st urges. 
"On the evening of the 9th of July 1792, between seven and eight o’clock, at Alverstoke, near Gosport, on the seacoast of Hampshire, there came up, in the southeast, a cloud with a thunder ihower; while the fun shone bright, low in the horizon to the northwest“ 
“this shower two primary rainbows appeared, AB and AC, not concentric, but touching each other at A, in the south part of the horizon; with a secon dary bow to each, DE anddf (the last very faint, but discernible), which touched likewise at D. Both the primary were very' vivid for a considerable time, and at different times nearly equally fo; but the bow AB was most permanent, was a larger segment of a circle, and at last, after the other had vanished, became almost a semicircle;; fun being near setting. It was a perfect calm, and the sea was as smooth as glass" 
"I tnight venture to offer a solution of this ap pearance, it would be as follows. I consider the bow AB as the true one, produced by the sun itself; and the other, AC, as produced by the reflection of the fun from the sea, which, in its perfectly smooth state, acted as a speculum. The direction of the sea, between the Isle of wight and the land, was to the northwest in 
a 
line with the sun, as it was then situated. The image reflected from the water, having its rays issuing from a point lower than the real sun, and in a line coming from beneath the horizon, would consequently form 
a 
bow higher than the true one AB. And the shores, by which that narrow part of the sea is bounded, would before the fun’s actual setting intercept its rays from the sursace of the water, and cause the bow AC, which I suppose to be produced by the reflection, to disappear before the other.” 
The marine or sea bow is a phenomenon which maybe frequently observed in a much agitated sea, and 
is 
occasioned by the wind sweeping part of the waves, and carrying them aloft; which when they fall down arc refracted by the fun’s rays, which paint the colours of the bow just as in a common shower. These bows are often seen when a vessel is sailing with considerable force, and dashing the waves around her, which arc raised partly by the action ef the ship and partly by the force of the wind, and, falling down, they form a rainbow; and they are also often occasioned by the dashing ef the waves against the rocks on shore. 
In the Philosophical Transactions, it is observed by F. Bourzes, that the colours of the marine rain bow are less lively, less distinct, and of shorter con tinuance, than those of the common bow; that there are scarce above two colours distinguishable, a dark yel low on the side next the fun, and a pale green on the opposite side. But they are more numerous, there be ing sometimes 20 or 30 seen together. 
To this class of bows may be referred a kind of white or colourless rainbows, which Mentzelius and others affirm to have seen at noonday. M. Marlotte, in his fourth sc/spz 
de Physique, 
says, these bows are formed in mists, as the others are in showers; and adds, · that he has seen several both after sun rising and in the night. The want of colours he attributes to the fmallness of the va pours which compose the mist; but perhaps it is rather scom the exceeding .tenuity of the little vesicular of the vapour, which being only little watery pellicles bloated with air, the rays of light undergo but little refraction in passing out of air into them; too little to sepa rate the differently coloured rays, c. Hence the rays are reflected from them, compounded as they came, that is, white. Rohault mentions * coloured rainbows on the grass; formed by the refractions of the fun’s rays in the morning dew. Rainbows have been also produced by the reflection of the sun from a river; and in the Philosophical Transactions, Vol. L p. 294. 
we 
