which its occasional inflexions, either above or below, may in some respect be conceived to have a reference, like that which common music has to its key note. Yet there is this difference between the two kinds of modulation, that whereas the sirst always concludes in the key note, the other frequently concludes a tittle below it f). This key note, in speaking, is generally the sound given at the outset of every complete sentence or period; and it may be observed on some occa sions to vary its pitch through the limits of a musical interval of a considerable magnitude. The tones, that fall a little lower than the key at the close of a sentence or period, are called 
cadenies. 
These cadences, if we are accurate in our distinctions, will, with respect to their offices, be found of two kinds; though they meet so frequently together, that st may be best to conceive them only as answerihg a double purpose. One of these offices is to assist the sense, and the other to decorate the modulation. An account of the first may be seen in the section on 
Pauses; 
and the latter will be found "to show itself pretty frequently in everything grave and plaintive, or in poetic description and other highly ornamented language, where the mind is by its influ ence brought to feel a placid kind of dignity and satis saction. These 
two 
cadences, therefore, may be conveniently distinguished by applying to them respective ly the epithets 
signficant 
and 
ornamental. 
we have already observed, that reading should 
in 
some things differ from speaking; and the particular under consideration seems to be one which ought to va ry a little in these arts. For, 
Modulation in reading serves a'twofold purpose. At the same time that it gives pleasure to the ear on the principles of harmony, it contributes through that medium to preserve the attention. And since written lan guage (when not purely dramatical) is in general more elegant in its construction, and musical in its periods, than the oral one; and since many interesting particulars are wanting in reading, which are present in speak ing, that contribute greatly to fix the regard of the hearer; it seems reasonable, in order to do justice to the language, and in part to supply the incitements of attention just alluded to, that in the former of these two articles a modulation should be used something more harmonious and artificiai than in the latter. Agreeably to this reasoniug, it is believed, we shall find every reader, on a narrow examination, adopt more or less a mo dulatson thus ornamented : though, after all, it must be acknowledged there arc better grounds to believe, that the practice has been hitherto directed intuitively by nature, than that it was discovered by the inductions of reason. we shall conclude this head with a rule for modulation in reading. “In everything dramatic, colloquial, or of simple narrative, let your modulation be the same as in speaking; but when the subject is flowery, solemn, or dignified, add something to its harmony, diversify the jcey note, and increase the frequency 
of 
cadences in proportion to the merit of the composition.” 
It will readily be seen, that the precepts here drawn from a comparison between speaking and reading, would be very inadequate, were they left destitute of the assistance of 
taste, 
and the opportunity of 
frequently hearing and imitating masterly readers. 
And indeed, to these two great auxiliaries we might very properly have referred the whole matter at once, as capable of giving sufficient directions, had we not remembered that our plan required us to found several of our rules as much on the principles of a philosophical analysis, as on those more familiar ones which will be found of greater efficacy in real practice. 
TV. 
Expression. 
i. There is no composition in music, however perfect as to key and melody, but, in order to do justice to the subject and ideas of the author, wsll require, in the performing, something more than an exact adherence to 
tune 
and 
time. 
This something is of a nature, too, which perhaps can never be ade quately pointed out by anything graphic, and results entirely from the taste and feeling of the performer. It is that which chiefly gives music its power over the passions, and characterises its notes with what we mean by the words 
sweet, harsh, dull, lively, plaintive, joyous, 
c. for it is evident every sound, considered ab stractedly, without any regard to the movement, or high and low, may be thus modified. Tn practical music, this commanding particular is called 
Exprejfion; 
and as we find certain tones analogous to it frequently coa leseing with the modulation of the voice, which indi eate our passions and affections (thereby more particu larly pointing out the meaning of what we say), the term is usually applied in the same sense to speaking and reading. 
These tones are not altogether peculiar to man. — Every animal, that is not dumb, has a power of making several of them. And from their being able, un affisted by words, to manifest and raise then kindred emotions, they constitute a kind of language of them selves. In this language of the heart man is eminently conversant; for we not only understand it in one another, but also in many of the inferior creatures subject ed by providence to our servsce. 
The expression here illustrated is one of the most es sential articles in good reading, since it not only gives a sinishingto the sense, but, on the principles of sympathy and antipathy, has also a peculiar efficacy in inte resting the heart. It is likewise an article of most difficult attainment; as it appears from what follows, that a masterly reader ought not only to be able to incorporate it with the modulation properly as to 
quality, 
but in any degree as to 
quantity. 
Everything written being a proper imitation of speech, expressive reading must occasionally partake of 
fas 
musical sounds have always an harmonical reference to a key or fundamental note, and to which the mind is still secretly attending, no piece of music would appear perfect, that did not close in it, and so naturally put an end to expectation. But as the tones used in speech are not musical, and therefore cannot refer harmonically to any other sound, there can be no necessity that this terminating sound (and which we immediately below term the 
cadence) 
should either 
be used at all, or follow any particular law as to form, c. farther 
than what 
imposcd by taste and custom. 
