this man had not the courage of Luther j and was therefore on all occasions ready to make concessions, and to propose schemes of accommodation. In the present case, therefore, he gave it as his opinion, that the whole of the book called 
Interim 
could not by any means be adopted by the Protestants; but at same time he declared, that, he saw no reason why this book might not be appproved, adopted, and received, as an authoritative rule in things that did not relate to the essential parts of religion, and which he accounted indifferent. But this scheme, instead of cementing tyre differences, made them much worse than ever; and produced a divjsion among the Protestants themselves, which might have overthrown the Reformation en tirely, if the emperor and pope had seized the opportunity. 
In the year 1549, the pope (Paul III died; and was succeeded by Julius III who, at the repeated so licitations of the emperor, consented to the re astem bling of a council at Trent. A diet was again held at Augshurg under the cannon of an imperial army, and Charles laid the matter. before the princes of the empire. Most of these present gave their consent to it, and among the rest Maurice elector of saxony $ who consented on the following conditions; 1, That the points of doctrine which had already been decided there, should be re examined. 
2. 
That this exami nation should be made in presence of the Protestant divines. 3. That the saxon Protestants shoulst have 
a 
liberty of voting as well as of deliberating in the council. 4. That the pope should not pretend to preside in that assembly, either in person or by his legates. This declaration of Maurice was read in the diet, and his deputies insisted upon its being entered into the re gisters which the archbishop of Mentz obstinately re fused. The diet was concluded in the year 
1551; 
and, at its breaking up, the emperor desired the assembled princes and states to prepare all things for the approaching council, and promised to use his ut most endeavours to procure moderation and harmony, impartiality and charity, in the transactions of that ase sembly. 
On the breaking up of the diet, the Protestants took such steps as they thought most proper for their own sasety. The saxons employed Melancthon, and the wurtembergers Brengius, to draw up Confessions of Faith to be laid before the new council. The saxon di vines, however, proceeded no farther than Nuremberg, having received secret orders from Maurice to stop there : For the elector, perceiving that Charles had formed designs against the liberties of the German princes, resolved to take the most effectual measures for crushing his ambition at once. He therefore entered with the utmqst secrecy and expedition into an alliance with the king of France, and several of the German princes, for the security of the rights and liberties of the empire; after which, assembling 
a 
powerful army in 1552, he marched against the emperor, who lay with 
a 
handful of troops at Inspruck, and expected no such thing. By this sudden and unforeseen accident Charles was so much dispirited, that he was willing to make peace almost on any terms, The consequence 
ef 
this was, that he concluded 
a 
treaty 
at 
Passau, which by the Protestants is considered as the basis of their religious 
liberty. By 
the first three articles of 
this treaty it 
was that Maurice and the eoitsciwatts 
lay down their arms, and lend their troops to Ferdinand to assist him against the Turks 
1 
and that the landgrave of Hesse should be set at liberty. By the fourth it was agreed, that the Rule of Faith called the 
Interim 
should be confidçred as null and void; that the contending parties should enjoy the free and undisturbed exercise of their religion, until a diet should be affetru bled to determine amicably the present disputes (which diet was to meet in the space of six months); and that this religious liberty should continue always, in case it should be found impossible to come to an uniformity in doctrine and worship. It was aiso determined, that all those who had suffered banishment, or any other eau mity, on account of their having been concerned in the league or war of smalcald» should. be iesnstated in their privileges, possessions, and employments; that the ita persal chamber at spire should be open to the Prate stants as well as to the Catholics 5 and that there should always be a certain number of Lutherans in that high court— — this peace Albert, marquis of branden burg, refused to subscribe } and continued the war 
against 
the roman catholics, committing such ravagea in the empire, that a confederacy was at sast formed again st him, At the head of this confederacy was Maurice elector of saxony, who died of a wound he received in a battle fought on the occasion in 1553. 
The assembling of the diet promised by Charles was prevented by various incidents; however it met at Augshurg in 1555, where it was opened by Ferdinand in name of thc emperor, and terminated those deplorable calamities which had so long dcsosated the empire After various debates, the following acts were passed, on the 25th of september i That the prote stants who followed the Confession of Augsburg should be for the future considered as entirely free from the 
jurisdiction 
of the Roman pontiff, and from the authority and fuperintendance of the bishops 5 that they were left at perfect liberty to enact laws sor themselves relating to their religious fentîmçnts, disespline, and worshsp $ that all the inhabitants of the German empire should 
be 
allowed to judge sor themselves ia religious matters, and to join themselves to that church whole doctrine and worship they thought the most pure and confimarst to the spirit of true Christianity 5 and that all those who should injure or persccute any person under relsc gious pretences, and on account of their opinions, should be declared and proceeded against as public enemies of the empire, invaders 
of 
its liberty, and disturbers of its peace. 
Thus was the Reformation established in many parts of the German empire, where it continues to this day j nor have the efforts of the Popish powers at any time been able to suppress it, or even to prevent it from gaining ground. It was not, however, in Germany alone that a reformation of religion took place, Ah most all the kingdoms of Europe began t open their eyes to the truth about the same time. The reformed religion was propagated in sweden, soon after 
Lu 
ther’s rupture with the church of Rome, by 
one of 
his difcsples named 
Olaus Petri, 
The zealous efforts of this missionary were scconded by Gustavws Vaspj whom the swedes had raised to the throne in place of Christiern king of Denmark, whose horrid barbarity sost him the 
crown. 
This 
priace, however? was as 
