ed by the titles of 
Captain of the queen's guards, 
and 
Lieutenant general of Cornwall. 
From this period to the year 1594, he was continually engaged in projecting new expeditions, sending succours to colonies abroad, defending the kingdom from the insults of the spani ards, and transacting parliamentary business, with equal ability and resolution. whilst thus employed, he was publicly charged, in a libel written by the infamous Jesuit Parlous, with being an Atheist; a groundless and ridiculous imputation. In 1594, lie obtained from the queen a grant of the manor of sherborne in dor setshire, where he built a magnificent house : but sir waiter fell under the queen’s displeasure on account of an intrigue with the daughter of sir Nicholas throg morton, one of the maids of honour; however, he married the lady, and lived with her in great conjugal harmony. During his disgrace at court, he projected the conquest of Guiana in south America, and in 1595 sailed for that country; of which having taken possess sion, after defeating the spaniards who were fettled there, he returned to England the same year, and soon after published an account his expedition. In the following year he was one of the admirals in the fuccess full expedition against Cadiz, under the command of Howard and the earl of Essex; and in 1597 he sailed with the same commanders against the Azores. soon after these expeditions, we find him afsiduoussy engaged in parliamentary business, [and a distinguished personage in jousts and tournaments. In 1600 he was sent on a joint embassy with Lord Cobham to Flanders, and at his return made governor of Jersey. 
Queen Elisabeth died in the beginning of the year 1603; and with her raleigh’s glory and felicity sunk, never to rise again. Upon the accession of James, sir walter lost his interest at court, was stripped of his preferments, and accused of a plot against the king. He was arraigned at winchester, and, on his trial, insulted by the most shockmg brutality by the famous Coke, attorney-general, whose sophistical vociferation influen ced the jury to convict him without the least proof of guilt. After a month’s imprisonment, however, in daily expectation of his execution, he was reprieved, and sent to the Tower; and his estates were given to Car, earl of somerset, the king’s favourite. During this confine ment, he wrote many of his most valuable pieces, parti cularly his History of the world. In March 1615, after 16 years impriionment, he obtained his liberty, and immediately began to prepare·for another voyage to Guiana. In August 161 6, the king granted him a very ample commission for that purpose; and in July the year following, he sailed from Plymouth : but, strange as it may appear, it is most certain that the whole seheme was revealed to the spaniards by the king himself, and thus necessarily rendered abortive. 
He returned to England in 1618, where he was soon after seized, imprisoned, and beheaded; not for any pre tended misdemeanour on the late expedition, but in con sequence of his former attainder. The truth of the matter is, he was sacrifieed by the pusillanimous monarch to appease the spaniards; who, whilst Raleigh lived, thought every part of their dominions in danger. He was executed in Old Palace Yard, and buried in st margaret’s adjoining, in the *66th year of his age. His behaviour on the scaffold was manly, unaffected, cheer full, and easy. Being asked by the executioner which 
be right, it is no matter which way the head lies.” He was a man of admirable parts, extensive knowledge, un ' daunted resoiution, and strict honour and honesty. He was the author of a great many works, some of which have not been printed. 
rallus, the Rail, in ornithology; a genus be longing to the order of grallæ. The beak is thickest at the base, compressed, equal, acute, and somewhat sharp on the back near the point; the nostrils are oval; thc feet have four toes, without any web; and the body is compressed. Mr Latham, in his 
Index Ormthologicus, 
enumerates 24 species, besides some varieties. They are chiefly distinguished by their colour. “These birds (fays Buffon) constitute a large family, and their ha bits are different from those of the other shore birds, which reside on sands and gravel. The rails, on the contrary, inhabit only the slimy margins of pools and rivers, especially low grounds covered with flags and other large marsh plants. This mode of living is habitual and common to all the species of water rails. The land rail frequents meadows, and from the disagreeable cry, or rather rattling in the throat of this bird, is de rived the generic name. In all the rails, the body is slender, and shrunk at the sides; the tail extremely short; the head small; the bill pretty like that f the gallinaceous kind, though much longer, and not fo thick; a portion of the leg above the knee is bare; the three fore toes without membranes, and very long : they do not, like other birds, draw their feet under their bel ly in flying, but allow them to hang down : their wings are small and very concave, and their flight is short. — They seem to be more diffused than varied; and nature has produced or transported them over the most distant lands. Captain Cook found them at the straits of magellan;; different islands of the southern hcmisphere, at Anamoka, at Tanna, and at the isle of Norfolk. In the society Islands there are two species of rails; a little black spotted one, 
pooa nee}, 
and a little red eyed one 
mai ho}. 
It appears that the two acolins of Fernandez, which he denominates 
water quails, 
are of 
a 
species of rails peculiar to the great lake of Mexico. — The colins, which might be confounded with these, are a kind of partridges.” The principal are, 
1. The aquaticus, or water rail, is a bird of a long slender body, with short concave wings. It delights less in flying than running : which it does very swiftly along the edges of brooks covered with bushes : as it runs, it every now and then flirts up its tail, and in flying hangs down its legs; actions it has in common with the water hen. Its weight is four ounces and 
a 
half. The length to the end of the tail is 12 inches; the breadth 16. The bill is slender, slightly incurva ted, one inch three quarters long : the upper mandible black, edged with red; the lower, orange coloured : the head, hind part of the neck, the back, and coverts of the wings and tail, are black, edged with an olive brown; the throat, breast, and upper part of the belly, are ash coloured : the sides under the wings as far as the rump, finely varied with black and white bars. The tail is very short, consists of 12 black feathers; thc ends of the two middle tipped with rust colour; the sea thers immediately beneath the tail white. The legs are placed far behind, and are of a dusky flesh colour. The toes very - long, and divided to their very origin; though the feet are not webbed, it takes the water.; 
will fwïm 
nn it with mnrh ease. but 
ir often nbserued 
