But on no occasion has the mild influence of christi anity been more eminently displayed, or more happily exerted, than in softening and humanising the barbarians who overturned the Roman empire. The idolatrous religion which prevailed among those tribes before their conversion to Christianity, instead of disposing them to cultivate humanity and mildness of manners, contributed strongly to render them fierce and bloodthirsty, and eager to distinguish themselves by deeds of savage valour. But no sooner had they settled in the dominions of Rome, and embraced the principles of Christianity, than they became a mild and generous people. 
we are informed by Mosheirn, who was at pains to collect his materials from the most authentic sources, that in the loth century Christian princes exerted themselves in the conversiou of nations whose sierceness they had experienced, in order to sosten and render them more gentle. The mutual humanity with which na tions at war treat each other in modern times, is certainly owing, in a great measure, to the influence of the mild precepts of the Gospel. It is a fact worthy of notice too, that during the barbarous ages, the spiritual courts of justice were more rational and impar tial in their decisions than civil tribunals. 
How many criminal practises which prevailed among heathen nations have been abolished by their conversion to Christianity! Christians of all nations have been observed to retain the virtues and reject the vicious practises of their respective countries. In Parthia, where polygamy prevailed, they are not polygamists; in Persia, the Christian father does not marry 
his 
own daughter. By the laws of Zoroaster the Perlians com .mitted incest until they embraced the Gospel; after which period they abstained from that crime, and observed the duties of chastity and temperance, as enjoined by its precepts. Even the polished and enlightened Romans were cruel and bloodthirsty before the propagation of the Gospel. The breaking of a giafs, or some such trifling offence, was sufficient to provoke Vidius Pollio to cast his siaves into sish ponds to be devoured by lampreys. The effusion of human blood was their favou rite entertainment; they delighted to see men combat jng with beasts, or with one another; and we are informed on respectable authority, that no wars ever made such havoc on mankind as the lights of gladiators, which sometimes deprived Europe of 20, 000 lives in one month. Not the humanity of Titus, nor the wisdom and virtue of Trajan, could abolish the barbarous spectacle. However humane and wife in other instarices, in this practice those princes complied with the custom of their country, and exhibited splendid shows of gladiators, in which the combatants were matched by pairs; who, though they had never injured nor offended each other, yet were obliged to maim and murder one another in cold blood. Christian divines soon exercised their pens against these horrid practises; the Christian emperor Constantine restrained them by edicts, and Honorius finally abolished them. It would be tedious to proceed through an enumeration of particulars; but wherever Christianity has been propagated, it has constantly operated to the civilization of the manners of mankind, and to the abolition of absurd and criminal practises. The Irish, the scotch, and all the ancient inhabitants of the British isses, were, notwithstanding 
their 
intercourse 
with the Romans, rude barbarians, till such time as they were converted to Christianity. The inhuman practice of exposing infants, which once pre vailed so generally over the world, and still prevails a rnong some Pagan nations, even under very humane and enlightened legissatures, yielded to the influence of Christianity. 
Let us likewise remember, in honour of Christianity, that it has contributed eminently to the diffusion of knowledge, the preservation and the advancement of learning. when the barbarians overspread Europe, what must have become of the precious remains of po lished, enlightened antiquity, had there been no other depositaries to preserve them but the heathen priests? we allow that even the Romish clergy during the dark ages did not study the celebrated models of ancient times with much advantage themselves, and did not labour with much assiduity to make the laity acquainted with them. It must even be acknowledged, that they did not always preserve those monuments of ge nius with sufficient care, as they were often ignorant of their real value. Yet, after all, it will be granted, it cannot be denied, that had it not been for the clergy of the Christian church, the lamp of learning would, in all probability, have been entirely extinguished, during that night of ignorance and barbarity in which all Europe were buried for a long series of centuries, after the irruption of the barbarians into the Roman, empire. 

such is the excellence of the Christian system, and such its tendency to meliorate the human character, that its beneficial influence lias not been confined to those who have received its doctrines and precepts, and have professed themselves Christians; it has even produced many happy effects on the circumstances and the characters of Pagans and infidels, who have had opportunities of beholding the virtues of Christians, and learning the excellence of the morality of the gospel. Those virtues which distinguished the character of the apostate Julian were surely owing in no inconsiderable degree to his acquaintance with Cliristianity; and it is an undeniable fact, that after the propagation of Christianity through the Roman empire, even while the purity of that holy religion was gradualiy debased, the manners of those Pagans who remained unconverted became more pure, and their religious doctrines and worship less immoral and absurd. — We might here adduce a tedious series of facts to the same purpose. whenever Christians have had any intercourse with Pagan idolaters, and have not concealed the laws of the gospel, nor shown by their conduct that they dis regarded them, even those who have not been converted to Christianity have, however, been improved in their dispositions and manners by its influence. The emperor, whose virtues we have mentioned as arising, in a certain degree, from his acquaintance with Christianity, in a letter to an Heathen pontiff, desires him to turn his eyes to the means by which the superstition of Christians was propagated: bykindness to strangers, by sanctity of life, and by the attention which they paid to the burial of the dead. He recommends an imitation of their virtues, exhorts him to canse the priests of Galatia to be attentive to the worship of their gods, and authorises him to strip them of the sacerdotal function, unless they obliged their wives, children, and servants, 
