of them are together, they make such a horrid noise, that two people cannot understand each other’s speech. They croak all together, and then stop for a little and begin again. It seems as if they had a captain atnong them : for when he begins to croak, all the others sol low; and w hen he stops, they also become filent, when this captain gives the signal for slopping, you hear a note like 
poop 
coming from him. In the daytime they seldom make any great noise, unless the sky is covered; but in the nighttime they may be heard at the distance of a mile and an half, when they croak, they are commonly near the surface of the water, under the bushes, and have their heads out of the water. By going ssowly, therefore, one may get up almost quite close to them before they go away. As soon as they are quite under water, they think themselves safe, though it be ever so shallow. These creatures kill and eat young ducklings and gossings, and sometimes carry off csuckens that come too near the water; when beaten, they cry out almost like little children. As soon as the air begins to grow a little cool in autumn, they hide them selves under the mud in the bottom of stagnant waters, and lie there torpid during the winter. As soon as the weather grows mild towards summer, they begin to get out of their holes and croak. They are supposed by the people of Virginia to be the purifiers of waters, and are respected as the genii of the fountains. some of them were brought to England alive several years ago. 
4. The bufo, or toad, is the most deformed and hl deous of all animals. The body is broad; the back flat, and covered with a pimply dusky hide; the belly large, swagging, and swelling out; the legs short, and its pace laboured and crawling; its retreat gloomy and filthy : in short, its general appearance is such as to strike one with disgust and horror. Yet it is said by those who have resolution to view it with attention, that its eyes are fine; to this it seems that shakespeare alludes, when he makes his Juliet remark, 
some say the lark 
and 
loathed toad change eyes; 
As if they would have been better bestowed on so charming a songster than on this raucous reptile. 
Çut the hideous appearance of the toad is such as to make this Gne advantageous feature overlooked, and to have rendered it in all ages an object of horror, and the origin of most tremendous inventions. Ælian makes its venom' so potent, that bafilisk like it conveyed death by its very look and breath; but Juvenal is content with making the Roman ladies who were weary of their husbands form a potion from its entrails, in order to get rid of the good man. This opinion begat others of a more dreadful nature; sor in after times su perstition gave it preternatural powers, and made it a principal ingredient in the incantations of nocturnal hags. 
This animal was believed by some old writers to have a stone in its head fraught with great virtues medical and magical : it was distinguished by the name of the reptile, and called the 
toadstone, lofonites, era pauchne, krottenstein; 
but all its fancied powers, vanish ed on the diseovery of its being nothing but the foffil tooth of the sea wolfj, or. of some other flat toothed 
sish, not unfrequent in our issand as well as several other countries... 
But these fables have been long exploded. And as to the notion of its being a poisonous animal, it is probable that its excessive deformity, joined to the faculty it has of emitting a juice from its pimples, and a dusky liquid from its hind parts, is the foundation of the report. 
That it has any noxious qualities there seem to have been no proofs in the smallest degree satisfactory, tho’ we have heard many strange relations on that point. —. On the contrary, there have been many who have taken them in their naked hands, and held them long without receiving the least injury : it is also well known that quacks have eaten them, and have bessdes squeezed their juices into a glass and drank them with impunity, we may say also, that these reptiles are a common food to many animals; to buzzards, owls, Norfolk plovers, ducks, and snakes, who would not touch them were they in any degree noxious. 
Go far from having venomous qualities, they have of late been considered as if they had beneficent ones; particularly in the cure of the most terrible of diseases, the 
cancer, 
by suction : (see 
British Zoology, 
vol. III Append, p. 389, 
etseq.} 
But, from all circumstances, as Mr Pennant observes, they seem only to have rendered a horrible complaint more loathsome. 
The most full information concerning the nature and qualities of this animal is contained in the following letters from Mr Arscott and Mr Pittfield to Dr Milles. “It would give me great pleasure (says Mr Arsoott) to be able to inform you of any particulars worthy Mr pennant’s notice, concerning the toad who lived so many years with us, and was so great a favourite. The greatest curiosity in it was its becoming so remarkably tame. It had frequented some steps before the hall door some years before my acquaintance commenced with it, and had been adrmred by my father sor its size (which was of the largest I ever met with), who constantly paid it a visit every evening. I knew it myself above 30 years; and by constantly feeding it, brought it to be so tame, that it always came to the candle, and looked up as if expecting to be taken up and brought upon the table, where I always fed it with insects of all sorts; it was fondest of siesh maggots, which I kept in bran; it would foliow them, and, when within a proper distance, would six its eye, and remain motionless for near a quarter of a minute, as if preparing for the stroke, which was an instantaneous throwing its tongue at a great distance upon the insect, which stuck to the tip by a glutinous matter : the motion is quicker than the eye can follow a" 
"
always imagined that the root of its tongue was placed in the forepart of its under jaw, and the tip to wards its throat, by which the motion must be a half circle; by which, when its tongue recovered its situation, the insect at the tip would be brought to the place of deglutition. I was confirmed in this by never obser ving any internal motion in its mouth, excepting one swallow the instant its tongue returned. Possibly I might be mistaken; for I never dissected one, but con 
a) 
This rapid capture of its prey might give occasion to the report of its fascinating powers, Linnæus says, 
Infecta in sauces sofeino revocat. 
