hàff to contend 
with regular military bodies, and not with undisciplined multitudes, as they expected. 
The duke of Brunswick encamped his army at La Lun, near the camp of Dumourier. And here the Prussians began to be in extreme dlstrefs both from sickness and famine. No temptation could induce the inhabitants of the country to carry provisions to the hostile camp, while at the same time the French army was abundantly supplied. 
Bournonville, with a body of 4000 men, intercepted several droves of cattle and other convoys of provisions destined for the Prussians. The rain fell in torrents, and the roads were uncommonly deep. Exposed to the cold, the moisture, and want of provisions, the Prussians rashly ate great quantities of the grapes of Champagne. The consequence of this was, that an epidemical distem per commenced and spread through the army to such an extent, that 10, 000 men at one time were unfit for duty. The duke of Brunswick, however, still commanded a force much more numerous than that of Dumourier; and he has been much censured for not attacking his camp, and forcing him to engage. It has been laid, that the veteran and numerous force which he com manded would have marched to certain victory against the raw troops that opposed them; that, having defeated dumourier’s army, there was nothing to oppose their march to Paris. But the duke ot Brunswick had entered France upon the supposition, that in its present distracted state no regular army could be brought into the field against him, and that the people at large were hostile to the ruling faction. ss he contrary of ail this had turned out to be true. He found himself in the midst of an hostile people, and op posed by skilful military chiefs. A defeat in such a situation would have brought certain ruin to his army; and even the loss snstained in the acquisition of a victory might have proved equally fatal. ss he remains of the French army would not fail to hang upon his rear 5 and from the disposition of the people it appeared impossible to ascertain to what amount that army might be suddenly increased. After proposing a truce, there fore, which lasted eight days, he commenced his retreat towards Grandpré, and no advantage vas gained over him in the course of it. Verdun was retaken by the French on the 12th of October, and Longwy on the 18 th; the siege of Thionville was at the same time raised. That small, but strong fortress, under the command of general Felix wimpfen, had held in check an army of 15, 000 men. 
while the Prussians were advancing from the northeast, the Austrians under the duke of saxe Tefchen laid siege to Lisle. The council general of the commune answered tlte summons of the besiegers thus, "we have just renewed our oath to be faithful to the nation,, and to maintain liberty and equality, or to die at our post. we wili not perjure ourselves.” such was the cant of these men who had already perjured themselves by contributing to overturn the constitution which they had repeatedly sworn to defend. The Austrian batte ries began to play upon the town on the 29th, and were chieflydirected against that quarter which was inhabi ted by the lower class of citizens, for the purpose of making them mutinous and seditious. This procedure was ill judged. The lower clastes of mankind are always much accustomed to hardships, and they go farthest 
in 
support of any enthusiastic principle they have been persuaded to adopt. Accordingly, though a great part of the ciry was reduced to a heap of ruins, the citizens of Lisle became daily more obstinate. They received each other into the houses that were still standing, and every vault and cellar was occupied. Although up wards of 30, 000 red hot balls and 6000 bombs were thrown into the city, besides the efforts made by an im mense battering train of artillery, yet the loss both to the garrison and people did not exceed 500 pet sons, most of whom were women and children. Aster a fortnight of fruitless labour the Austrians raised the siege. 
war had been declared against the king of sardinia on account of the threatening appearances exhibited in that quarter. On the 20th of september general Montesquieu entered the territories of savoy, and was received at Chambery and throughout the whole country with marks of unbounded welcome. On the 29th general Anselm, with another body of troops, took possession of Nice and the country around it. On the 30th general Custine advanced to spires, when he found the Austrians drawn up in order of battle. Hc attacked and drove them through the city, taking 3000 of them prisoners. The capture of worms succeeded that of spires; Mentz surrendered by capitulation; and Franckfort fell into the hands of the French on the 23d. Out of this last place, however, they were afterwards driven on the 2d of December. 
On the 20th of september the French 
National Convention 
assembled. It was found to contain men of all characters, orders, and ranks. Many distinguished members of the 
Constituting 
Assembly were elected into it, and also several that had belonged to the 
Legflalive 
Assembly; even foreigners were invited to become French lcgissators. The famous Thomas Paine and Dr Priestley of England were elected by certain departments;; the latter declined accepting. Clouts a Prussian, whom we formerly noticed as bringing a de putation to the bar of the constituent assembly, consisting of persons representing all the nations of the earth, was also chosen. The general aspect of the new convention showed that the republican party liad acquired a de cided superiority. On the sirst day oscrneeting M. Collot D’herbois, who had formerly been an actor, ascendcd the tribune, and proposed 
the eternal abolition of royalty in France. 
The question was carried by acclamation, and the house adjourned. Messages were sent to all parts of the country to intimate the decree, and by the influence of the Jacobins they were everywhere re ceived with applause. It was next day decreed, that all public acts should be dated by the year of the French republic; and all citizens were declared eligible to all the vacant offices and places. The rage of republica nism soon went so far, that the ordinary titles of mon sieur and Madame were abolished, and the appellation of 
Citizen 
substituted in their stead, as more suitable to the principles of liberty and equality. — It may be remarked, that in this last trifling circumstance an attachment to the form of speech to which they had been accustomed appears even in its abolition : For, al though the Roman orators addressed their countrymen when assembled by the honourable appellation of 
Citizens, 
yet they never, in accosting an individual, called him Citizen Cato, or Citizen Cæfar, according to the 
mode now 
adopted in France. 
