tisfaction is the most powerful check to honest industry; and dissatisfaction and idleness must be the effect of the wanderings of such men in the labyrinths of polities; which, for uncultivated minds especially, paves thc wayfor every species of vice, and gradually ripens them for any wickedness, however atrocious. For the truth of these re marks, we appeal to the history of mankind from thecrea· tion to the present time : and we would seriousiy request the 
sober friends of reform, 
and many such, we doubt not, there are, to reflect, that in the present day we have more to fear from licentiousness than from despotism; from reform carried to an extreme than from the pretended attempts either of kings or ministers to annihi iate our real liberty (see Revolution). 
It may also be worth their while to consider, that times of public danger are not generally the best adapted to attempt changes of government; because what might satisfy one party would probably be thought too little by another, and divisions at such a period are most dangerous, when, therefore, attempts are made for reform which appear to be inconssstent with the safety of the state, reftriétions must be used, which may by specu lative men be thought severe and unnecessary, but of which they themselves are the causes. These re strictions too will be patiently submitted to by the wiser part of the community, when in more peaceable times they would neither have been thought of nor allowed. 
speculative reasoners may speak as much as they will of enlightening the minds of men, and of reform ing government by the dictates of a refined and dis paffionate philosophy; but when they come to apply their notions to practice, they will either find their re presentations little better than empty sounds, and therefore ineffectual; or, as is more generally found to be the case, those schemes which in theory appeared to be perfect, will in practice, when combined with the malignant and ambitious passions of men, lead to ruin and disorder. The sirst institution of government, except among the Jews, was unquestionably the effect of pas sion and interest combined; and this passion and this interest, restrained within due bounds, is productive of much happiness. That government, we believe, too, will be best supported, and most productive of happiness, in which the mutual passions and interests of the individuals who compose it are so equally poised as to support one another, and to promote each the ends and success of the other : and this by the ablest reasoners and the best men has been thought to be the case with the British constitution. If the modern favourers of reform should think this an unstable support, if they will consider the world as it ever has been, and as it is, they will find it the only one we have, except religion; and they will thence be inclined to make the best of it. If, after all, however, they should be disposed to doubt the position, we have only further to request them, with the sincerity of men and of Christians, to consult their own breasts, and serioussy to consider the probable motives of those who act with them. They will then perhaps see, and they surely ought to acknowledge, that few men have acted more according to the impulse of passion, interest, and ambition, than those who have for some time past founded the toczin of reform. 
REFORMATION, in general, an act of reforming or correcting an error or abuse in religion, discipline, 
or the like. By way of eminence the word is used sor that great alteration and reformation in the cor rupted system of Christianity, begun by Luther in the year 1517. 
Under the article History (sect. II the various corruptions in religion, the oppressions and usurpations of the clergy, and the extreme insolence of the popes, have been so suliy treated of, that any further detail here is unnecessary. It is sufficient to observe, that, before the period of the Reformation, the Pope had in the most audacious manner declared himsels the sovereign of the whole world. All the parts of it which were inhabited by those who were not Christians, he account ed to be inhabited by 
nobody; 
; if Christians took it into their heads to possess any of those countries, he gave them full liberty to make war upon the inhabitants without any provocation, and to treat them with no more humanity than they would have treated wild beasts. The countries, if conquered, were to be parcelled out according to the pope’s pleasure; and dread sul was the sstuation of that prince who resused to obey the will of the holy pontiff, of which many instancea" will occur to the reader in the various historical articles of this work. In consequence of this extraordinary authority which the pope had assumed, he at last granted to the king of Portugal all the countries to the east ward of Cape Non in Africa, and to the king of spain all the countries to the westward of it. In this, ac cording to the opinions of some, was completed in his person the character of 
Antichrifi sitting in the temple of God, andfhewing himself as God 
*. He had long before, say they, assumed the supremacy belonging to the Deity himsels in spiritual matters; and now he assumed thc same supremacy in worldly matters also, giving the extreme regions of the earth to whom he pleased. The Reformation, therefore, they consider as the immediate effect of divine power taking vengeance on this and all other deviations srom the system of truth while others consider it merely as an effect of natural causes, and which might have been soreseen and prevented, without abridging the papal power in any considerable degree. 
Be this as it will, however, the abovementioned partition was the last piece of insolence which the pope ever had, or in all probability ever will have, in his power to exercise, in the way of parcelling out the globe to his adherents. Everything was quiet, every heretic exterminated, and the whole Christian world supinely acquiesced in the enormous absurdities which were inculcated upon them; when, in 1517, the empire.of super stition began to decline, and has continued to do so ever since. The person who made the first attack on the extravagant superstitions then prevailing was Martin Luther; the occasion of which is fully related under tile article Luther. By some it is pretended, that the only motive which Luther had in beginning the Reformation was his enmity to the Dominican friars, who had excluded his order (the Augustins) from all share in the gainful traffic of indulgences. But this does not seem at all probable, if we consider that such a motive would not naturally have led him to deny the virtue cs indulgences, as such conduct could not but exclude him forever from any chance of a share in the traffic, which otherwise perhaps he might have obtained. Besides, the extreme contrariety of this traffic to the common principles of reason and honesty 
was 
so great, that we 
