such system to he. It would be unhappy, indeed, is, on a comparison of pure theism with polytheism, the latter, with all its absurdities, should be found more be nesicial to mankind than the former. The theism of the Jews was not formed to be disseminated through the earth; that would have been inconsistent with the purposes for which it is said to have been designed. But while the Jews were separated by their religion from all other nations, and perhaps, in some degree, sixed and rendered stationary in their progress towards resine ment, they were placed in circumstances, in respect to laws, and government, and religion, and moral light, which might with good reason render them the envy of every other nation in the ancient world. 
IV The Christian religion next demands our atten tson. It is to be considered as an improvement of the Jewish, or a new superstructure raised on the same ba sis. Is the effects of the Jewish religion were benesi cial to those among whom it was established, they were confined almost to them alone. But is the spirit of Christianity equally pure and benignant? Is its influ ence equally beneficial and more diffusive than that of Judaism? Does it really merit to have triumphed over both the theism of the Jews and the polytheism of the heathens? 
Is we consider the doctrines and precepts of the chri stian religion, nothing can be more happily calculated to raise the dignity of human nature, and promote the happiness of mankind. The happiness of the individual is best promoted by the exercise of love and gratitude towards God, and resignation to his providence; of humanity, integrity, and good will towards men; and by the due government ef our appetites and passions. social happiness again proceeds srom the members of society entertaining a disinterested regard sor the public welsare; being actively industrious each in his proper sphere of exertion; and being strictly just and faithful, and generousiy benevolent in their mutual intercourse. The tenor of the gospel inculcates these virtues; it seems everywhere through the whole of the Christian code to have been the great design of its Author to inspire mankind with mild, benevolent, and peaceable dis positions, and to form them to courteous manners. Christianity again represents the Deity and his attri butes in the sairest light; even so as to render our ideas of his nature, and the manner in which he exerts his power, consistent with the most correct principles of morality that can be collected srom all the other reli glons that have prevailed in the earth, and srom the writings of the most admired philosophers. The ritual observances which Christianity enjoins are few in num ber, easy to perform, decent, expressive, and edifying. It inculcates no duties but what are founded on thé principles of human nature, and on the relation in which men stand to God, their Creator, Redeemer, and sanctifier; and it prescribes accurate rules for the re gulation of the conduct. The assistance of the spirit of God is promised in this sacred volume to those who affiduoussy labour to discharge the duties which it enjoins; and it exhibits a striking example of spotlefs pu rity, which we may safely venture to imitate. The gospel teaches that worldly afflictions are incident to both good and bad men; a doctrine highly conducive to virtue, which consoles us in distress, prevents despair, nd encourages us to persist sirmlv in our integrity under every difficulty and trial. Christiansty represents all men as children of the same God, and heirs of the same salvation, and levels all distinctions of rich and poor, as accidental and insignisicant in the sight of him who rewards or punishes with impartiality according to the merits or demerits of his creatures. This doctrine is highly favourable to virtue, as it tends to humble the proud, and to communicate dignity of sentiment to thc lowly; to render princes and inferior nragistrates mo derate and just, gentle and condescending, to their infe riors. It farther requires husbands to be affectionate and indulgent to their wives, wives to be faithful and respectful to their husbands, and both to be true and constant to each other. such is the purity of the gospel, that it forbids us even to harbour impure thoughts; it requires us to abandon our vices, however dear to us; and to the cautious wisdom of the serpent it directs us to join the innocent simplicity of the dove. The Christian dispensation, to prevent a perseverance in immorality, offers pardon for the past, provided the offender forsake his vicious practises, with a firm resolu tion to act differently in future. The fonctions of the gospel have a natural tendency to exalt the mind above the paltry pursuits of this world, and to render the Christian incorruptible by wealth, honours, or plea sures. The true Christian not only abstains from in justice towards others, but even forgives those injuries which he himself suffers, knowing that he cannot otherwise hope for forgiveness from God. such are the precepts, such the spirit, and such the general tendency of the gospel. Even those who resused to give credit to its doctrines and history have yet acknowledged the excellence of its precepts. They have acknowledged, that “no religion ever yet appeared in the world of which the natural tendency was fo much directed to promote the peace and happiness of mankind as the Christian; and that the gospel of Christ is one continued lesson of the strictest morality, of justice, benevo lence, and universal charity.” These are thez words of Bolingbroke, one of its keenest and most insidious op ponents. without examining the effects of this re ligion on society, we might almost venture to pro nounce with confidence, that a religion, the precepts of which are so happily formed to promote all that is just and excellent, cannot but be in the highest degree beneficial to mankind. By reviewing the effects which it has actually produced, the favourable, opinion which we naturally conceive of it, after constdering its pre cepts, cannot but be confirmed. 
One circumstance we mid take notice of as rather unfavourable to this review. It is really impossible to do justice to Christianity by such a discussion of its merits. The virtues which it has a natural tendency to produce and cherish in the human heart, are not of a noisy ostentatious kind; they often escape the observa tion of the world. Temperance, gentleness, patience, benevolence, justice, and general purity of manners, are not the qualities which most readily attract the admiration and obtain the applause of men. The man of Ross, whom Mr Pope has so justly celebrated, was a private character; his name is nt w likely to live, and his virtues to be known to the latest posterity : aud yet, however disinterested his virtues, however benesi cial his influence to all around him, had his character not attracted thc notice of that eminent poet, his name 
