thread in a hundred coarser than the guide fcrew H. The wheels on the guide screw arbour H, and that on the steel E, on which the screw was to be cut, were proportioned to each other to produce that effect, by giving the wheel L 198 teeth, and the wheel Qu 200. These wheels communicated with each other by means of the intermediate wheel R, which also served to give the threads on the two screws the same direction. 
"The saddle piece P is confined on the bar A by means of the pieces (g), and may be made to sside with 
a 
proper degree of tightness by the screws (n).” 
For ramsden’s equatorial or portable observatory, see Optics, n 102. and Astronomy, n 504. see also a long account of an equatorial instrument made by Mr Ramsden by the direction of sir George shuck burgh in the Philosophical Transactions for 1793, art. X 
p. 
67. In this instrument the circle of declinations is four feet in diameter, and may be observed nearly to a second. The glass is placed between six pillars, which form the axis of the machine, and turn round by two pivots placed on two blocks of stone. see also Barometer. 
ramsey, a town of Hantingdonshire, 68 miles north of London, and 12 nortll east of Huntingdon. It is situated as it were in an issand, being everywhere encompasted with fens, except on the west, where it is separated from the 
terra sirma 
by a causey for two ■miles. The neighbouring meers of Ramsey and whitle sey, which are formed by the river Nyne, abound with fowl and sish, especially eel and large pikes. It was once famous for a very rich abbey, part of the gatehouse of which is still standing, and a neglected statue of ail win; the epitaph of whose tomb, which is reckoned one of the oldest pieces of English sculpture extant, styles him " kinsman of the famous King Edward, alderman of all England, and the miraculous founder of this abbey.” It was dedicated to st Duristan, and its abbots were mitred, and sat in parliament; and so ■many kings of England were benefactors to it, that its yearly rents, says Camden, were 70001. The town was then called 
Ramsey the Rich; 
but by the dissolution of the abbey it soon became poor, and even lost its market for many years, till about 185 years ago it recovered it. It is held on saturday, and is reckoned one of the most plentiful and cheapest in England. In the year 1721 a great number of Roman coins was found here, supposed to have been hid by the monks on. some incursion of the Danes. There is a charity school in the town sor poor girls. W. Long. o. 19. N. Lat. 52. 26. 
Ramsey, an issand of south wales, on the coast of Pembrokeshire, about two miles in length, and a mile and a half broad. Near it are several small ones, known by the name of the 
bishop and his clerks. 
It is four miles west of st david’s, and 17 northwest of mil ford haven. It belongs to the bishopric of st da vid’s, and was in the last age, says Camden, famous for the death of one Justinian, a most holy man, who retiring hither from Britanny, in that age rich in saints, and devoting himself entirely to God, lived a long while in solitude, and being at last murdered by his servant was enrolled among the martyrs. W. Long. 5. 20. N. Lat. 51.55- 
Ramsey, in the Isle of Man, to the north, a most 
noted and spacious haven, in which the grcatcst fleet may ride at anchor with safety enough from all winds but the northeast, and in that case they need not be embayed. This town standing upon a beach of loose fand, or shingle, is in danger, if not timely prevented, of being washed away by the sea. 
ramsgate, a seaport town of Kent, in the isse of Thauet, live miles from Margate, where a very line pier has been lately built for the security of ships that come into the harbour, being seated near the Downs, between the north and south Foreland, 10 miles northeast of Canterbury. The town is situated in the cove of a chalky cliff. It was formerly but an obscure fish ing village, but since the year 1688 has been improved and enlarged by a successsul trade to Russia and the east country. But what renders it most worthy of notice, and attracts multitudes of strangers, is the new harbour, which is one of the most capacious in England, if not in Europe. It was begun in the year 1750, but delayed by various interruptions. It con sists of two piers; that to the east is built wholly of Purbeck stone, and extends itself into the ocean near 800 feet before it forms an angle; its breadth on the top is 26 feet, including a strong parapet wall, which runs along the outside of it. The other to the west is constructed of wood as far as the low water mark, but the rest is of stone. The angles, of which there are five in each pier, consist of 160 feet each, with octa gons at the end of 60 feet diameter, leaving an en trance of 200 feet into the harbour, the depth of which admits of a gradual increase of 18 to 36 feet. E. Long, 
i 
30. N. Lat. 51. 22. 
RAMTRUT, a deity worshipped by the Ranazins of Hindostan, where he has a celebrated temple at Onor. He is represented as more resembling a mon key than a man. 
ramus, in general, denotes 
a 
branch of anything, as of a tree, an artery, c. In the anatomy of plants it means the sirst or lateral branches, which go off from the petiolum, or middle rib of a leaf. The subdivisions of these are called 
fur cult; 
and the final divisions into the most minute of ail, are by some called 
capillamenta; 
but both kinds are generally denominated 
surculus. 
Ramus (Peter), was one of the most famous pro “feffors of the 16th century. He was born in Picardy in 1515. A thirst tor learning prompted him to go to Paris when very young, and he was admitted a servant in the college of Navarre. spending the day in waiting on his masters, and the greatest part of the night in study, he made such surprising progress, that, when he took his master of arts degree, he offered to maintain a quite opposite doctrine to that of Aristotle. This raised him many enemies; and the two sirst books he published, 
Itstitutiones Dialectica, 
and 
aristo telicœ Aaimadverßones, 
occasioned great disturbances in the university of Paris : and the opposition against him was not a little heightened by his deserting the Romish religion, and prosessmg that of the Reformed. Behg thus forced to retire from Paris, he visited the univtr sities of Germany, and received great honours where -- ever he came. He returned to France in 1571, and lost his life miserably in the horrid massacre of st Bartholomew's day. He was a great orator, a mansof ur.i versal learning, and endowed with very fine moral quaff 
