and nation. This you will apprise them of. Be assured also, that I wish you should preserve an affection to wards your friend. If I am able to speak to yon no more, my picture will speak to you for me! (signed) stanislaus Augustus, Kung.” 
This shows, at least, the fate of the king; and leaving that of the kingdom to be ascertained by time, we proceed to fulfil a promise which we made respe sting another revolution, to which all the nations of Europe are still looking with anxiety and alarm. 
when treating of France under a former article, we stated a few of the more striking historical facts which led to the commencement of the revolution; and we now come to trace the series of transactions which have marked its terrible career. In doing this, we shall compress our ideas as much as possible;; out of the endless variety of materials of which the public are in possession, we 
sllall 
endeavour to extract a short and, if possible, a tolerably clear detail. For this purpose, however, it will be necessary that we begin, by stating the internal situation of France at the period immediately preceding the revolution, along with the more obvious political circumstances which contributed to the production of that event. The moral history of man is always more important than the mere recital of any physical occurrences that may take place in his lot. It is not the fall of a mighty monarch and the dispersion of his family; it is not the convulsion of empires, and the oceans of human blood which have been shed, that render the French revolution peculiarly interesting. such events, however deplorable, are far from being without example in the history of mankind. In the populous regions of the east, where superstition and slavery have always prevailed, they are regarded as form jng a part of the ordinary course of human affairs; be cause an intrepid and skilful usurper finds it easy to in timidate or ensnare millions of weak and credulous men. In Europe the case is very different; no adventurer can advance far without encountering thousands as artful and as daring as himself. Events are not the result either of blind hazard or of individual skill; conspira cies or plots produce little effect. Like other arts, the art of government has been brought to much perfection; and an established constitution can only be shaken by the strong convulsion produced by national passions and efforts. The wonderful spectacle which we are now to contemplate, is that of a mild and polished people be coming in an instant sanguinary and fierce; a well esta blished government, celebrated sor its dexterity and skill, overturned almo/t without a struggle; a whole nation apparently uniting to destroy every institution which antiquity had hallowed or education taught them to respect; a superstitious people treating the religion of their fathers with contempt; a long enslaved people, whose very chains had become dear to them, occupied in their public counsels in the discussion of refined, and even visionary schemes of freedom : in short, 25, 000, 000 of persons suddenly treading under foot every sentiment and every prejudice that they themselves had once regarded as sacred and venerable. 
Like the other nations of Europe, France was anciently governed by a barbarous aristocracy, whose different members were feebly united by the authority of a succession of kings destitute of power or influence. The nobles, within their own territories, enjoyed privileges entirely royal : they made peace and war; they coined money; they were judges in the last resort; their vassals were their slaves, whom they bought and sold along with the lands; the inhabitants of cities, although freemgn, were depressed and poor, depending for protection upon some tyrannical baron in their neighbourhood. At length, however, by the progress of the arts, the cities rose into considerable importance, and then inhabitants, along with such freemen of low rank as resided in the country, were considered as enti tled to a representation in the states-general of the kingdom, under the appellation of 
tiers etat, 
or 
third estaie; 
the clergy and the nobles forming the two first estates. But the sovereign, having speedily become despotic, the meetings of the states general were laid aside. Thia, absolute authority, on the part of the crown, was not acquired, as it was m England by the house of Tudor, by aboiishing the pernicious privileges of the nobles and elevating the commons; but by skilful encroachments, by daring exertions of prerogative, and the use of a powerful military force. In France, therefore, the mo narch was absolute, yet the nobles retained all their feudal privileges, and. the ecclesiastical hierarchy did the same. The following was, in a sew words, the state of that country during these two last centuries. 
Ί he kingdom of France, previous to the. revolution, was never reduced to one homogenous mass. It con sisted of a variety of separate provinces acquired by different means; some by marriage, some by legacy", and others by conquest. Each province retained its ancient laws and privileges, whether political or civil, as expressed in their capitularies or conditions by which they were originally acquired. In one part of his do minions the French monarch was a count, in another he was a duke, and in others he was a king; the only bond which united his vast empire being the strong military force by which it was overawed. Each province had its barriers; and the intercourse betwixt one province and another was often more restrained by local usages than the intercourse of either with a foreign country. some ot the provmces, such as Bretagne and Dauphiné, even retained the right of assembling penodically their provincial states; but these formed no barrier against the power of the court. 
The clergy formed the sirst estate of the kingdom in point of precedence. They amounted to 130, 000, The higher orders of them enjoyed immense revenues; but the rizrct or great body of acting clergy seldom posseffed more than about L 28 sterling a year, and their 
vicaires 
about half that sum. A sew of their dignified clergy were men of great piety, who resided coa stantly in their dioceses, and attended to the duties of their office; but by far the greater number of them passed their lives at Paris and Vferfailles, immersed in all the intrigues and dissipatlon of a and corrupted court and capstal. They were almost exclusively southeast lected from among the younger branches of the families of the most powerful nobility, and accounted it a kind of dishonour to the order of bishops for any person of low rank to be admitted into it. The lower clergy, on the contrary, were persons of mean birth, and had little chance of preferment. At the same time, we find several respectable exceptions to this last rule. The clergy, as a body, independent of the tithes, possessed a revenue arising from their property in land, amounting · 
