very much from their neighbours. You need only compare them with some of these, to be convinced that the drinker of wine excels the drinker of beer and water, both in body and mind, and that the inhabitant of the south is much ssouter than he who lives in the north; for though the wine drinker may not have quite as much flesh as he who drinks only beer, he has better blood, and can bear much more work. Tacitus had already observed this, in his treatise 
De moribus Germanorum. 
“The large and corpulent bodies of the Germans (says he) have a great appearance, but are not made to last.” At that time almost all the Germans drank only water; but the mere drinking of wine has effected a revolution in several parts of Germany, which makes the present inhabitants of these countries very different from those described by Tacitus. Black and brown hair is much commoner here than the white, which made the Germans so famous in old Rome. “It wili be easily imagined (says Baron Reisheck), that the monks fare particularly well in fo rich a country, we made a visit to the prelate of Erbach. These lordly monks, for so in every respect they are, have an excellent hunt, rooms magnificently furnished, billiard tables, half a dozen beautiful singing women, and a stu pendous wine cellar, the well ranged batteries of which made me shudder. A monk, who saw my asto nishment at the number of the casks, assured me, that, without the benign influence which flowed from them, it would be totally impossible for the cloister to subsist 
in 
fo damp a situation.” 
rhinfels, a castle of Germany, in the circle of the Lower Rhine, in a county of the same name. It is looked upon as one of the most important places seated on the Rhine, as well in regard to its strength as situation. It is near st Goar, and built on a craggy rock. This fortress commands the whole breadth of the Rhine, and those who pass are always obliged to pay a considerable toll. In the time of war it is of great importance to be masters of this place. E. Long. 7. 43. N. Lat. 50. 3. 
RHINLAND, a name given to a part of south Holland, which lies on both sides the Rhine, and of which Leyden is the capital town. 
rhinoceros, in zoology, a genus of quadrupeds belonging to the order of belluæ. The name is entirely Greek; but these animals were totally unknown to the ancient Greeks. Aristotle takes no notice of them, nor any other Greek writer till strabo, nor Roman till Pliny. It is probable they did not frequent that part of India into which Alexander had penetrated, since it was near 300 years after that Pompey brought them to Europe. From this time till the days of Heliogabalus, the rhinoceros was frequently exhibited in the Roman spectacles; and he has often been transported into Europe in more modern times; but they were long very ill represented, and very imperfectly de scribed, till some that arrived in London in 1739 and 1741 were inspected, by which the errors and caprices of former writers were detected. 
Ί here are two species of rhinoceros, the sirst of which is the 
unicornis, 
the length of which, Buffon tells us, from the extremity of the muzzle to the origin of the tail, is at least 12 seet, and the circumference of the body is nearly the same. " The rhinoceros which came to London in the year 1739 was sent from Bengal. Though not above two years of age, the expense of his food and journey amounted to near L 1000 sterling. He was fed with rice, sugar, and hay. He had daily seven pounds of rice, mixed with three pounds of sugar, and divided into three portions. He had likewise hay and green herbs, which last he preferred to hay. His drink was water, of which he took large quantities at a time A). He was of a peaceable disposition, and allowed all parts of his body to be touched, when hungry, or struck by any per son, he became misehievous, and in both cases nothing appeased him but food, when enraged, he sprung forward, and nimbly raised himself to a great height, pushing at the same time his head suriouily against the walls, which he performed with amazing quickness, notwithstanding his heavy aspect and unwieldy mass. I often observed, says Dr Parsons, these movements produced by rage or impatience, especially in the mornings before his rice and sugar were brought to him. The vivacity and promptitude of his movements, Dr Parsons adds, led me to think, that he is altogether unconquerable, and that he could easily overtake any man who should offend him. 
"This rhinoceros, at the age of two years, was not taller than a young cow that has never produced. But his body was very long and very thick. His head was disproportionally large. From the ears to the horn there is a concavity, the two extremities of which, namely the upper end of the muzzle, and the part near the ears, are considerably raised. The horn, which was not yet above an'inch high, was black, smooth at thc top, but full of wrinkles directed backward at the base. The nostrils are situated very low, being not above an inch distant from the opening of the mouth. The under lip is pretty similar to that of the ox; but the upper lip has a greater resemblance to that of the hoise, with this advantageous difference, that the rhinoceros can lengthen this lip, move it from side to fide, roll it about a stass, and seize with it any object he wishes to carry to his mouth. The tongue of this young rhinoceros was soft, like that of a calf. His eyes had no vivacity : In figure they resembled those of the hog, and were situated lower, or nearer the nostrils, than in any other quadruped. His ears are large, thin at the extremities, and contracted at their origin by a kind of annular rugosity. I'he neck is very short, and surronnded with two large folds of skin. The shoulders aie very thick, and at their juncture there is another fold of skin, which deseends upon the fore legs. The body of this young rhinoceros was very thick, and pretty much resembled that of a cow about to bring forth. Between the body and crupper there is another fold, which deseends upon the hind legs, Lastly, another fold transversely surrounds the inferior part of the crupper, at some distance from the tail. The belly was large, and hung near the ground, particularly its middle part. The legs are round, thick, strong, and 
a" " food in a state of nature is the grossest herbs, as thistles and thorny shrubs, which they prefer to bhe soft pasture of the best meadows; they are fond of the sugarcane, and eat all kinds of grain, but for flesh they have no appetite.” 
