proportion to the depth under the sursace. For 57 : 73 = 32 : 41 very nearly. He therefore estimates the non preffure to be 
f ff 
of the height of the water above the orisice. 
we are disposed to think that the ingenious author has not reasoned accurately from the experiment. In the sirst place, the force indicated by the experiment, whatever be its origin, is certainly double of what he fupposes; for it must be measured by the sum of the rise of the water in one leg, and its depression in the other, the weight of the air in the bend of the syphon being neglected. It is precisely analogous to the force acting on the water oscillating in a syphon, which is acknowledged to be the sum of the elevation and depression. The force indicated by the experiment therefore is 4-5-5 s the height of the water above the orisice. The force exhibited in this experiment bears a still greater proportion to the productive height; sor it is certain that the water 
did not 
issue with the veso •> ‘eity acquired by the fall from the sursace, and probably did not exceed J of it. The effect of contraction must have been considerable and uncertain. The velocity should have been measured both by the amplitude of the jet and by the quantity of water diseharged. In the next place, we apprehend that much of the effect is produced by the tenacity of the water, which drags along with it the water which would have ssowly issued from the syphon, had the other end not dipped into the water of the vessel. 
we 
know, that if the hori zontal part of the syphon had been continued far enough, and if no retardation were occassoned by fric tion, the column of water in the upright leg would have accelerated like any heavy body; and when the last of it had arrived at the bottom of that leg, the whole in the horizontal part would be moving with the velocity acquiredby faffing from the surface. The water of the vessel which issues through the surrounding ring very quickly acquires a much greater velocity than what the water descending in the syphon would acquire in the same time, and it drags this last water along with it both by tenacity and friction, and it drags it out till its action is opposed by the want of equilibrium produced in the syphon, by the elevation in the one leg and the depression in the other. We imagine that little can be concluded from the experiment with respect to the real non pressure. Nay, if the sides of the syphon be supposed insinitely thin, so that there would be no curvature of the sila ments of the surrounding water at the mouth of the syphon, we do not very distinctly see any fouree of non preffure : For we are not altogether fatisfièd with the proof which Mr Buat offers for this measure of the pressure of a stream of stuid gliding along a surface, 
and obfructed by friction or any other cauf.· 
we imagine that the passing water in the present experiment would be a little retarded by accelerating continually the water de scending in the syphon, and renewed a top, supposing the upper end open; because this water would not of itself acquire more than half this velocity. It however drags it out, till it not only resists with a force equal to the weight of the whole vertical column, but even ex ceeds it by This it is able to do, because the 
whole pressure by which the water issues from an orisice has been shown (by Daniel Bernoulli) to be equal to twice this weight, we therefore consider this beauti sil experiment as chiefly valuable, by giving us a measure of the tenacity 
of 
the water; and we wish that it were repeated in a variety of depths, in order to discover what relation the force exerted bears to the depth. It would seem that the tenacity, being a certain deter minate thing, the proportion of 100 to 112 would not be constant; and that the observed ratio would be made up of two parts, one of them constant, and the other proportional to the depth under the surface. 
But still this experiment is intimately connected with the matter in hand; and this apparent non pres sure'on the hinder part of a body exposed to a stream, from whatever causes it proceeds, does operate in the action of water on this hinder part, and must be taken into the account. 
_ We must therefore follow the Chevalier de Buat in his discuffions on this subject. A prismatic body, ha ving its prow and poop equal and parallel sursaces,. and plunged horizontally into a fluid, will require a force to keep it sirm in the direction of its axis precisely equal to the difference between the real pressures exerted on its prow and poop. If the fluid is at rest, this difference will be nothing, because the opposite dead pressures of the fluid will be equal : but in a stream, there is superadded to the dead pressure on the prow the active pressure arising from the deflections of the filaments of this fluid. 
If the dead pressure on the poop remained in its full intensity by the perfect stagnation of the water be hind it, the whole sensible pressure on the body would be the active pressure only on the prow, represented by 
m h. 
If, on the other hand, we could suppose that the water behind the body moved continually away from it ( being renewed laterally) with the velocity of the ssream, the dead pressure would be entirely removed from its poop, and the whole sensible pressure, or what must be opposed by some external force, would be 
m h -|~ h. 
Neither of these can happen; and the real state of the case must be between these extremes 
The following experiments were tried : The perfo rated box with its vertical tube was exposed to the stream, the brass plate being turned down the stream. The velocity was again 36 inches per second. 
The central hole A alone being opened, gave a non pressure of _ -. 
13 
fines.. 
A 
hole B, 
j 
of an inch from the edge; gave - - 
15 
A hole C near the surfaee - 
A hole 
D, 
at the lower angle - 
15, 3 
Here it appears that there is a very considerable non pressure, increasing from the centre to the border,. This increase undoubtedly proceeds from the greater la teral velocity with which the water is gliding in from the sides. The water behind was by no means stag nant, although moving oss with a much smaller velocity than that of the passing stream, and it was visibly removed from the sides, and gradually licked away at its further extremity. 
Another box, having a great number of holes, all open, indicated a medium off non pressure equal to 13, ^ lines. 
A nother of larger dimensions, 
but having fewer holes, 
indicated a non pressure of 12^-. 
But the most remarkable,, and the 
most important 
phenomena, were the following : 
The sirst box was fixed to thc side of another box, 
