Louis XVII General wurmser 
resused 
to accept of it upon these terms, insisting upon an absolute surren der to his Imperial Majesty. In consequence of the delay occasioned by disagreement, the negotiation was discovered, and the citizens of strashourg engaged in the plot wererseized by st Just and Lebas, commissioners from the convention, and brought to the scaffold. Prodigious efforts were now made by the French to recover their ground in this quarter. General irem bert was shot at the head of the army on the 9th of November, upon a charge, probably ill-founded, of treachery in the affair of the lines of weissembourg, On the 14th, however, Fort Louis was taken by the allies, not without suspicion of treachery in the governor. But here the success of general wurmser might be said to terminate. On the ist the republican ar my drove back the Austrians, and penetrated almost to Hagenau. An army from the Moselle now advanced to cooperate with the army of the Rhine. On the 1 7th the Prussians were defeated near sarhruck. Next day their camp at Bliescastel was stormed, and the Frencli advanced to Deux Ponts. On the 29th and 30th the Frencli were repulsed with great loss in two violent attacks made on the duke of Brtinswick near Lautern. But it now appeared that the French had come into the field with a determination to conquer whatever it might cost. Every day was a day of battle, and torrents of blood were shed on both sides. The allies had the advantage of possessing the ground, which, in that quarter, at such a late season of the year, is very strong on account of its inequalities and morasses. In military skill, the French officers and those of the allies were perhaps nearly equal; but the French army was by sar the most numerous; and although not a match in point of discipline, yet it derived no small superiority from the enthusiasm with which the troops were animated. On the 8tli of December, under the command of general Pichegru, the French carried the redoubts which covered Hagenau by means of the bayonet. 
This modern instrument of destruction, against which no desensive weapon is employed, is always most success full in the hands of the most intrepid; and it was now a dreadful engine in the hands of French enthusiasm. — The 
sinest 
troops that ever Europe produced were unable to withstand the fury of the republicans, which seemed only to increase in proportion to the multitude of companions that they lost. On the 22d the allies were driven with immense siaugliter from Hagenau, not withstanding the iinrnense works they liad thrown up for their defence. The entrenchments on the heights of Reishoffen, Jaudershoffen, C. were considered as more impregnable than those of Jemappe. They were stormed by the army of the Moselle and the Rhine, under generals Hoche and Pichegru. On the 23d and 24th, die allies were pursued to the heights of wrotte. On the 26th, the entrenchments there were forced by the bayonet, after a desperate conflict. o11 the 27th, the republican army arrived at weiffembourg in tri umph. General wurmser retreated across the Rhine, and the duke of Brunswick hastily fell back to cover Mentz. The blockade of Landau, which had lasted four months, was raised. Fort Louis was evsffcuated by the allies, and Kaiserssatern, Germersheim, and spires, submitted to the French. — During this last 
month of the year 1793, the loss of men on both 
sideg 
in this quarter was immense, and unexampled in the history of modern war. It is even said that it might amount to more than 70, 000 or 80, 000 men. 
Thus far we have attended to the military affairs of 
the 
republic for some time past. Very violent efforts were iu the mean time made at Paris by the new admi nistration, established under the auspices of the Jacobin club, and of the party called the 
Mountain. 
The new republican constitution had been presented to the people in the primary assemblies, and accepted. The business, therefore, for which the convention was called toge there, that of forming a constitution for France, was at an end; and it 
was 
proposed that they should dissolve themselves, and order a new legissative body to as semble, according to the rules prescribed by that con stitution. This was, no doubt, the regular mode of procedure; but the ruling party considered it as hazardous to convene a new assembly, possessing only limited powers, in the present distracted state of the country. It was indeed obvious, that France at this time stood in need of a dictatorship, or of a government possessed of more absolute authority than can be enjoyed by one that acts, or even pretends to act, upon the moderate principles of freedom. It was therefore determined that the convention should remain undissolved till the end of the war; and that a 
revolutionary 
government, to be conducted by its members, should be established, with uncontrolled powers. Committees of its own body were selected for the purpose of conducting every department of business. The chief of these committees was called the 
committee of public safety. 
It super intended all the rest, and gave to the administration of France all the secrecy and dispatch which have been accounted peculiar to a military government, together with a. combination of skill and energy hitherto un known among mankind. A correspondence was kept up with all the Jacobin clubs throughout the kingdom. Commissioners from the convention were sent into all quarters, with unlimited authority over every order of persons. Thus a government possessed of infinite vigilance, and more absolute and tyrannical than that of any single despot, was established; and the whole transactions and resources of the state were known to the rulers. On the 23d of August, Barrere, in name of the committee of public sasety, procured the celebrated decree to be passed for placing the whole French nation in a 
fate of requiftion 
for the public service. “From this moment (says the decree) till that when all enemies shall have been driven from the territory of the republic, all Frenchmen shall be in perma nent readiness sor the service of the army. The young men shall march to the combat; the married men shast forge arms, and transport the provisions; the women shall make tents and clothes, and attend in the hospitals; the children shall make lint of old linen; the old men shall cause themselves to be carried to the public squares, to excite the courage of the warriors, to pleach hatred against the enemies of the republic; the cellars sllall be washed to procure saltpetre; the saddle horses shall be given up to complete the cavalry; the unmarried citizens, srom the age of 18 to 25, shall march sirst, and none shall send a substitute; every battalion shall have a banner, with this inscription, 
The French nation risen agaiofl tyrants.” 
The decree also regulates 
the mode of organising this mass. 
A dccree more ty 
