In order to form a legissative national assembly, the active citizens shall convene, in primary assemblies, every two years in the cities and cantons. 
"The primary assemblies shall meet of full right on the sirst sunday of March, if not convoked sooner by the public officers appointed to do so by the law.” 
To be an active citizen, it is necessary, 
To be a Frenchman, or to have become a frenchman;; 
have attained 25 years complete; 
To have resided in the city or the canton from the time determined by the law; 
To pay in any part of the kingdom a direct contri bution, at least equal to the value of three days labour, and to produce the acquittance; 
Not to be in a menial capacity, namely, that of a ser vant receiving wages; 
To be inscribed in the municipality of the place of his residence in the list of the national guards; 
To have taken the civic oath. 
The primary assemblies shall name electors in the proportion of the number of active citizens residing in the city or canton; 
There shall be named one elector to the assembly, or not, according as there shall happen to be present 100 active citizens. 
There shall be named two, when there shall be present from 151 to 250, and so on in this proportion. 
The electors named in each department shall con vene, in order to choose the number of representatives, whose nomination shall belong to their department, and 
a 
number of substitutes equal to the third of the representatives. 
"The assemblies shall be held of full right on the last sunday of March, if they have not been before convoked by the public officers appointed to do so by law.” 
All active citizens, whatever be their state, profes sion, or contribution, may be chosen representatives of the nation. 
Excepting, nevertheless, the ministels and other agents of the executive power, c. 
The members of the legissative body may be re elect ed to a subsequent legislature, but not till after an interval of one legissature. 
No active citizen can enter or vote in an assembly if he is armed. 
The representatives shall meet on the sirst Monday of May, in the place of the sittings of the last legislature. 
The royalty is indivisible, and delegated hereditarily to the race on the throne from male to male, by order of primogeniture, to the perpetual exclusion of women and their descendants. 
Nothing is prejudged on the effect of renunciations in the race on the throne. 
The person of the king is inviolable and sacred; his only title is king of the French. 
If the king put himself at the head of an army, and direct the forces of 
lt 
against the nation, or if he do not oppose, by a formal act, any such enterprise undertaken in his name, he shall be held to have abdicated. 
If the king having gone out of the kingdom, do not return to it, after an invitation by the legissative body, within? the space which shall be sixed by the pr. 
clamation, “and which cannot be less than two months, ” he shall be held to have abdicated the royalty. 
After abdication, express or legal, the king shall be in the class of citizens, and may be accused and tried like them, for acts posterior to his abdication. 
The nation makes provision for the splendour of the throne by a civil list, of which the legislative body shall six the sum at the commencement of each reign, for the whole duration of that reign. 
The king is a minor till the age of 18 complete; and during his minority there shall be a regent of the kingdom. 
The regency belongs to the relation of the king, next in degree according to the order of succession to the throne, who has attained the age of 25; provided he be a Frenchman resident in the kingdom, and not presumptive heir to any other crown, and have pre viousiy taken the civic oath. 
The presumptive heir shall bear the name of 
Prince Royal. 
"The members of the king’s family called to the eventual succession of the throne, shall add the deno mination of 
French Prince 
to the name which shall be given them in the civil act proving their birth; and this name can neither be patronymic nor formed of any of the qualifications abolished by the present constitution" 
"denomination of 
prince 
cannot be given to any individual, and shall not cany with it any privilege or exception to the common right of all French citizens.” 
To the king alone belongs the choice and dismiffion of ministers. 
"The members of the nrcsent national assembly, and of the subsequent legissatures, the members of the tribunal of appeal, and those who shall be of the high jury, cannot be advanced to the ministry, cannot receive any place, gift, pension, allowance, or commission of the executive power or its agents during the continuance of their functions, or during two years after ceassng to exercise them : the same shall be observed re specting those who shall only be insenbed on the list of high jurors as long as their inscription shall con tinue.” 
No order of the king can be executed if it be not signed by him, and countersigned by the minister or comptroller of the department. 
In no case can the written or verbal order of a king shelter a minister from responsibility. 
The constitution delegates ■ exclusively to the legisia’ tive body the powers and functions following; 
To propose and decree laws — The king can only invite the legissative body to take an object into consideration;; 
six the public expenses; 
To establish the public contributions, to determine the nature of them, the amount of each sort, the duration, and the mode of collection, c. 
war cannot be resolved on but by a decree of thc nationahaffembly, passed on the formal and necessary proposition of the king, and sanctioned by him. 
During the whole course of war, the legissative body may require the king to negotiate peace; and the king is bound to yield to this requisition. 
It belongs to the legissative body to ratify treaties of 
