ty a prey to 
infinite multitudes of animals reserved for pastime, had always been numbered among the severe grievances of the French peasantry. These were therefore renounced, along with the exclusive rights of rabbit warrens, sisherses, and dovecotes. The sale of offices was abolished, and the fees exacted from the poor, together with the privilege of holding a plurality of livings, were relinquished by the clergy. The deputies of the 
Pais d’etat, 
or privileged provinces, with the deputies of Dauphiné at their head, next came forward, and offered a surrender of their ancient privileges, re questing that the kingdom might no longer remain parcelled out among Dauphinois, Bretons, Provençaux, chut that they should all form one great mass of French citizens. They were followed by the representatives of Paris, Marseilles, Lyons, Bordeaux, strasfeourg, c. who requested leave to renounce all their separate privileges as incorporatlons, for the sake of placing every man and every village in the nation upon a footing of equality. Thus the Assembly proceeded, till every member had exhausted his imagination upon the subject of reform. To close the whole, the Duc de Liancourt proposed that a solemn 
Te Deum 
should be performed, that a medal should be struck in commemoration of the events of that night; and that the title of Restorer of Gallic Liberty should be bestowed upon the reigning monarch. A deputation was accordingly ap pointed to wait upon the king, respectfully to inform him of these decrees. 
several succeeding days were necessary to form into laws the decrees of the 4th August, and commitees were appointed to make out reports for that purpose. One of these reports having included the tithes and revenues of the clergy among the abuses that were to be done away, and having proposed in lieu of them to grant a ’certain stipend to the different ministers of religion to be payable by the nation, the clergy attempted to make a stand in defence of their property, and violent debates ensued. In these they were ably supported by the Abbé sieyes : but as the clergy had formerly deserted the nobles, so they were now in their turn abandoned to their sat by the hereditary aristocracy. The popular party had long regarded the wealth of the church as an easy resource for supplying the wants of the state. — Never was there a more complete proof of the influence of opinion over the affairs of men. The Catholic clergy of France, though possessed of more property than they enjoyed at the time when princes took up arms or laid them down at their command, now found so sew defenders, that they were terrified into a voluntary surrender of all that they and their predecessors had possessed for ages. In their overthrow, they scarcely enjoyed even the barren honour of having fallen the 
last 
of those privileged orders that so long had ruled over this ancient kingdom. They and the nobles, and the king, still possessed their former titles and nominal dignity; but all of them were now subdued, and at the mercy of the commons of France, who speedily dismissed them at their pleasure. 
As a short season of tranquillity in the Court and the National Assembly succeeded these great popular sacrifices, the King laid hold 
of 
it as a fit opportunity for the appointment of a new ministry. They consisted of the Archbishop of Vienne, the Archbishop of bour deaux, M. Neckar, the 
Count de st Priest, Count de 
Montmorin, the Count de 
Ia 
Luzerne, and 
the 
Count 
de la Tour du Pin Paulin. M. Neckar, as minister 
of 
finance, having stated the distressed situation of the revenue, presented the plan of a loan of thirty millions of livres. But M. Mirabeau, from a spirit of rivalry, as is would seem, to M. Neckar, prevailed with the Assembly to alter and to narrow the conditions of it in such a degree that very few subscribers were found, and the loan could not be filled up. This failure involved the Assembly in a considerable degree of unpopularity; in consequence of which they allowed M. Neckar to preseribe his own terms for the purpose of obtaining 
a 
loan of eighty millions. But the happy instant of pub lic confidence had been allowed to pass away, and this loan was never more than half filled up. Recourse was next had to patriotic contributions; and great numbers of gold rings, silver buckles, and pieces of plate, were presented to the Assembly. The Royal family themselves sent their plate to the mint, either to give counte nance to these donations, or, as M. Neckar has since asserted, through absolute necessity, for the purpose of supporting themselves and their family. The confusion into which the nation had been thrown by the late events had produced a suspension of the payment of all taxes. There existed, in fact, no efficient government; and if society eseaped entire dissolution, it was merely in confeqnence of those habits of order which are produced by a state of long continued civilization. The business of government could not be transacted without money, and many vain efforts were made by the mini stry to procure it. At length M. Neckar was driven to the desperate resource of propoling a 
compulsory loan, 
or that every individual possessed of property should advance to the state a sum equal to one fourth of his an nual income. This bold proposition was supported by Mirabeau, and adopted by the Assembly; but it does not appear to have ever been effectually executed. 
In the mean time, the Assembly was busily occupied in framing the celebrated declaration of the 
Rights of Man, 
which was afterwards prefixed to the new constitution. This was followed by the discussion of a point of much delicacy and difficulty; viz. what share of le gislative authority the king ought to possess under the new constitution; whether an absolute negative or 
veto, 
a suspensive 
veto, 
or no 
veto 
at all? This question opera ted like a touchstone for trying the sentiments of eve ry person; and the assembly, consisting of 1200 men, was now seen to arrange itself into two violent contending factions. The debates were vehement and tumultuous, and continued for many days. As the assembly sat in public, and as multitudes of people of all descriptions were admitted into the galleries, and even into the body of the hall among the members, many indecent scenes took place in consequence of the interference of the spectators to applaud or censure the senti mtfnts which were delivered. Thus the public at large became speedily interested in the discussion;; city "of Paris took a fide in oppositson to the 
veto, 
and the whole empire was thrown into agitation by new and speculative questions. The distinguished place which France holds among the nations of Europe rendered these singular events and diseuffions the object of universal attention. The contagious love of novelty spread rapidly abroad, and gave rise to that well founded jealousy 
on 
the part 
of the 
monarchs 
of 
Europe, which 
