not unaptly denominate both the kinds of energies in question, by the terms 
emphasis of seose, 
and 
emphasis of force @@ 
C 
Now from the above account of these two species of emphasis it will appear, " that in reading, as in speak ing, the first of them must be determined entirely by the 
sense 
of the passage, and always made 
alike : 
But as to the other, 
taste 
alone seems to have a right of fixing its situation and quantity.” — Farther : since the more essential of these two energies is solely the work of 
nature 
(as appears by its being 
cooflantly 
found in the common conversation of people of all kinds of capacities and degrees of knowledge), and the most ignorant person never fails of using it 
rightly 
in the effusions of bis own heart, it happens very luckily, and ought always to be remembered, that provided we understand what we read, and give way io the dictates of our own feeling, the 
emphasis of sense 
can sea ice ever avoid falling spontaneously upon its proper place. 
Here it will be necessary to say something by way of reply to a question which will naturally occur to the mind of every one. As the rule for the 
emphasis 
of 
feofe 
requires we should understand what we read before it can be properly nsed, it is incumbent upon us never to attempt to read what we have not prevsously studied for that purpose? In answer to this, it must be obser ved, that though such a step will not be without its advantages; yet, as from the fairness of printed types, the well-known pauses of punctuation, and a long ac quaintance with the phraseology and construction of our language, c. experience tells us it is 
possible 
to comprehend the sense at the first reading, a previous perusal of what is to be read does not seem 
necessary 
to 
all, 
though, if they would wish to appear to advantage, it may be 
expedient 
to 
many; 
and it is this circumstance 
which makes us venture upon extemporary reading, 
and 
give it a place among our amusements. — similar re marks might be made with regard to 
modulation, expression, 
c. did not what is here observed naturally anticipate them. 
III 
Modulation @@ 
(d). Every person must have observed, that, in speaking,. the voice is subject to an alteration of sound, which in some measure resembles the movement of a tune. These sounds, however, are evidently nothing like so much varied as those that are strictly musical; and we have attempted to show in the preceding chapter, that, besides this, they have an essential difference in themselves. Nevertheless, from the general similitudc of these two articles, they postels several terms in common; and the particular wc have now to examine is in both of them called 
modulation. 
This affection of the voice, being totally 
arbitrary, 
is disserently characterised in different parts of the world; and, through the power of custom,, every place is in cliued to think their own the only one natural and agreeable, and the rest affected with some barbarous twang or ungainly variation e). It maybe observed, however, that though there is a general uniform cast or fashion of modulation peculiar to every country, yet it by no means follows, that there is or can be anything fixed in its application to particular passages; and therefore we find different people will, in any given instance, use modulations something different, and nevertheless be each of them equally agreeable. 
But, quitting these general remarks, we shall (as our purpose requires it) consider the properties of modula tion a little more minutely. 
First, then, we may observe, that, in speaking, there 
ls 
a particular sound (or 
key note, 
as it is often called) in which the modulation for the most part runs, and to 
c) The sirst of these terms ansvversto the 
simple emphajis 
described in the 
Lectures on Elocution, 
and the second 
nearly 
to what is there called 
complex. 
The difference lies in this. Under 
complex emphasis 
the author seems (for he is far from being clear in this article) to include the 
tones 
simply considered of all the eisiotions of the mind; as well the 
tender 
and 
languid, 
as the 
forcible 
and 
exulting. 
Our term is intended to be confined to such modes of expression alone as are marked with an apparent 
firefs 
or 
increase 
of the voice. 
d) 
The author of the 
Introduction to the Art of Reading, 
not allowing that there is any variation of tone, as to 
high 
and 
low, 
in the delivery of a complete period or sentence, places modulation solely in the diversisication of the key note and the variety of syllables, as to 
long 
or 
Short, swift 
or 
slow, firong 
or 
weak, 
and 
loud 
or 
fioft. 
As we are of a different opinion, our idea of modulation is confined purely to 
harmonious inflexions of voice. 
These qualities of words, it is true, add greatly both to the force and beauty of delivery; yet, since some of them are fixed and not arbitrary (as 
long 
and 
Short), 
and the others (of 
swist 
and 
(low, firong 
and 
weak, loud 
and 
soft), 
may be considered as modes of expression which do not affect the modulation as to 
tone, 
it will agree best with our plan to esteem these properties as respectively belonging to the established laws of 
pronunciation 
and the 
iim native 
branch of expression mentioned in the end of the ensuing head. 
e) 
From what accounts we have remaining of the modulation of the ancients, it appears to have been highly ornamented, and apparently something not unlike our modern 
recitative; 
particularly that of their theatric declamation was music in its strictest sense, and accompanied with instruments. In the course of time and the progress of refinement, this modulation became gradually more and more simple, till it has now lost the genius of music, and is entirely regulated by taste. At home here, every one has heard the 
fingfong 
cant, as it is called, of 
Ti ti dum dum, ti ti dum ti dum de, 
Ti dum ti dum, ti dum ti dum dum de; 
which, though difgustful now to all but mere rqstics on account of its being out of sashion, was very probably the favourite modulation in which heroic verses were recited by our ancestors. so fluctuating are the taste and practises of mankind! But whether the power of language over the passions has received any advantage from the change just mentioned, will appear at least very 
doubtful, 
when wr e recollect the stories of its former triumphs, and the inherent charms of musical sounds. 
