mental to individuals who have suffered by depredations srom foreign potentates, our laws have in some respects armed the subject with powers to impel the prerogative;; directing the ministers of the crown to issue letters of mark and reprisal upon due demand : the prerogative of granting which is nearly related to, and plainly derived from, that other of making war; this being indeed only an incomplete state of hostilities, and generally ending in a formal denunciation of war. These letters are grantable by the law bf nations, whenever the subjects of one state are oppressed and injured by those of another; and justice is denied by that state to which the oppressor belongs. In this case letters of mark and reprisal words used as synonymous;; signifying, the latter a taking in return, the former the passing the frontiers in order to such taking) may be obtained, in order to seize the bodies or goods of the subjects of the offending state, until satisfaction be made, where ever they happen to be found. And indeed this custom of reprisals seems dictated by nature herself; for which reason we find in the most ancient times very notable instances of it. But here the necessity is obvious of calling in the sovereign power, to determine when reprisals may be made; elfe every private sufferer would be a judge in his own cause. In pursuance of which principle, it is with us declared by the stat. 4 Hen. V 
C 
7. that, if any subjects of the realm are oppressed in time of truce by any foreigners, the king will grant mark in due form, to all that feel themselves grieved, which form is thus directed to be observed : the suf ferer must sirst apply to the lord privy seal, and he shall make out letters of request under the privy, seal; and if after such request of satisfaction made, the party required do not within convenient time make due satisfaction or restitution to the party grieved, the lord chancellor shall make him out letters of mark under the great seal; and by virtue of these he may attack and seize the property of the aggressor nation, without hazard of being condemned as a robber or pirate. 
Reprisal, or 
Recaption, 
is a species of remedy al lowed to an injured person. This happens when any one hath deprived another of his property in goods or chattels personal, or wrongfully detains one’s wise, child, 
or 
servant : in which case the owner of the goods, and the husband, parent, or master, may lawfully claim and retake them, wherever he happens to find them; so it be not in a riotous manner, or attended with a breach of the peace. The reason for this is obvious; since it may frequently happen that the owner may have this only opportunity of doing himself justic? : his goods may be asterwards conveyed away or deslroyed; and his wife, children, or servants, concealed or carried out of his reach; ifhe had no speedier remedy than the ordinary process of law. If therefore he can so contrive it as to gain possession of his property again, without force or terror, the law favours and will justify his pro •ceeding. But, as the public peace is a superior consideration to any one man’s private property; and as, if individuals were once allowed to use private force as a remedy for private injuries, all social justice must cease, the strong would give law to the weak, and every man would revert to a state of nature; for these reasons it is provided, that this natural right of recaption shall never be exerted, where such exertion ■must occasion strife and bodily contention, or 
endanger 
the peace of society. If, for instance, my horse is 
taken 
away, and I sind him in a common, a fair, or a public inn, I may lawfully seize him to my own use : but I cannot justify breaking open a private stable, or entering on the grounds of a third person, to take him, except he be feloniousiy stolen; but must have recourse to an action at law. 
REPROBATION, in theology, means the act of abandoning, or state of being abandoned, to eternal destruction, and is applied to that decree or resolve which God has taken from ali eternity to punish sinners who small die in impenitence; in which sense it is directly op posed to election. When a sinner is so hardened as to feel no remorse or misgiving of conscience, it is consi dered as a sign of reprobation; which by the casuists has been distinguished into positive and negative. The sirst is that whereby God is supposed to create men with a positive and absolute resolution to damn them eternally. This opinion is countenanced by st augus tine and other Christian fathers, and is a peculiar tenet of Calvin and most of his followers. The church of England, in 
The thirty-nine Articles, 
teaches something like it; and the church of scotland, in the 
Confejfion of Faith, 
maintains it in the strongest terms. But the notion is generally exploded, and is believed by no rational divine in either church, being totally injurious to the justice of the Deity. Negative or conditional reprobationis that whereby God, though he has a sincere desire to save men, and furnishes them with the necessary means, so that all if they will may be saved, yet sees that there are many who will not be saved by the means, however powerful, that are afforded them; though by other means which the Deity sees, but will not afford them, they might be saved. Reprobation respects angels as well as men, and respects the latter either fallen or unfallen. see Predestination. 
REPRODUCTION, is usually understood to mean the re il oration of a thing before existing, and since de stroyed. It is very well known that trees and plants may be raised from Hips and cuttings; and some late observations have shown, that there are some animals which have the same property. The polype * was the sitst instance we had of this; but we had scarce time to wonder at the discovery Mr Trembley had made, when Mr Bonett discovered the same property in a species of water worm. Amongst the plants which may be raised from cuttings, there are some which seem to possess this quality in so eminent a degree, that the smal lest portion of them will become a complete tree again. 
It deserves inquiry, whether or not the great Author of nature, when he ordained that certain insects, as these polypes and worms, should resemble those plants in that particular, allovzed them this power of being re produced in the same degree? or, which is the Tame thing, whether this reproduction will or will not take place in whatever part the worm is cut? fn order to try this, Mr Bonett entered on a course of many experiments on the water worms which have this property. These are, at their common growth, from two to three inches long, and of a brownish colour, with a cast of reddish. From one of these worms he cut off the head and tail, taking from each extremity only a frnall piece of a twelfth of an inch in length; but neither of these pieces were able to reproduce what was wanting. They both perished in about 24 hours; the tail firsl, 
