marlcabfy dry till the latter part 
of harvest, when 
there fell a considerable, though by no means unusual, quan tity of rain. Towards the end of December a severe frost bound up the whole of the rivers and lakes of Holland. The waal was frozen over in the beginning of January; 
a 
circumstance which had not occurred for 
14 
years past. Taking advantage ef this, the French crossed that river, and with little opposition seized the important pafs of Bommell, which at other seasons is so strong by its inundations. The allied army had been joined by 17, 000 Austrians, and had received orders to defend Holland to the last. They did fo, and were succefssul in repulsing the French for some days between the waal and the Leck; but the republican army, amounting to 70, 000 men, having at last advanced in full force, the allied troops were compelied to retire across 
the 
Yssel into westphalia In the course of their march throughthis desert country, in the midst of severe frost and a deep suow, they arc said to have sussered incredible hardships, and to have lost a very great number of men. The French, in the mean time, advanced rapidly across the country to the Zuyder seato prevent the in habitants srom flying, and carrying oss their property. On the 16th of January 1795, a party of horse, without jreflstance, took possession of Amsterdam. The other towns surrendered at discretion. In confeqnence of an. order from the states General, the slrong sortresses of bergen op zoon, wiliiamftadt, Breda, c. opened their gates to the French. The fleet and the shipping were fixed by the intense frost in their Rations, and fell a prey to the enemy; who thus, with little effort, made a complete conquest of this populous and once powerful country. The French were well received by the people at large. The power of the stadtholder had been support ed among them merely by the influence of Prussia and England. Through hatred to this office, which had now become odious chiefly to the mercantile aristocracy of Holland, they were little attached to their allies, and gave them, during the present war, as little support as possible. The stadtholder and his family now fled to England. The French declared, that they did not mean to make subjects but allies of the Dutch, and invited them to call together popular assemblies for settling their own government, under the protection of the French republic. 
Thus terminated a campaign, the most astonishing, perhaps, that has been known in the history of mankind. In the course cf it, even before the conquest of Holland, the French had taken 2000 pieces of cannon and 60, 000 prisoners. Aster that event, the conquered ter ritories added to them a population of nearly 14 millions of people. Luxembourg and Mentz were the only places on this side of the Rhine that resisted them. The former was cloftly blockaded, for the purpose of compelling it to surrender the latter was several times as faulted,, but successfully held out. 
Europe was now weary of this bloody strife. The German Diet of Ratishon declared its resolution to take measures for procuring peace. Tile Grand Duke of Tuscany concluded a treaty with thc French republic. France itsels, exhausted by massacrea, emigrations, and the terrible efforts which it had made, wished for tranquillity; and the Convention found it necessary to declare that they were willing to treat for peace with any of the powers of Europe, upon honourable terms. 
The frequent changes, however, which have with astonishing rapidity taken place in the mode of conduct ing French affairs, and the different principles display ed by the different factions as they successively got into power, have produced in Great Britain and Austria a very general persuasion that no peace concluded with the present Convention could either be honourable or permanent;; therefore these two mighty nations have resolved to continue the war with redoubled vigour. — In support of the wisdom of this resolutson, it has been observed, that the hatred of the Mountain to the gi rondists was Inch, that it would have violated any treaty which had been concluded with thaa; that when Robespierre beoame all powerful, and terror was the order of the day, all former measures were changed, and peace or war made wholly subservient to the ambitious views of that relenttesa tyrant; that Taliien, having orig'nally belonged to the Mountain, introduced the present system of moderation, not from principle, but only to reconcile the people to his usurped authority, and the fast of his bloody predecessor; that he may suddenly change his measures, or be denounced and executed hythe influence of some more daring demagogue, who would again introduce the system of terror; and that in such a state of uncertainty, the only confe qnence to be expected from making peace at present is, that it would furnish the next faction which may gain, the aseendancy in France with an opportunity of attacking the allies when less prepared to receive them.. such reasoning as this has been admitted in the British. parliament, where a loan of six millions sterling has. been voted to the Emperor, to enable him to begin the ensuing campaign with an army of 2-00, 000 men. In what manner the war ought to be conducted, it is not for ns to say. The British nation seems to rest its hopes on its superiority at sea; and the greatest exertions are making to augment and man the navy. But we are here under the necessity of dropping this subject, without being able completely to fulfil the promise which we made to our readers at the end of the article France, There is as little appearance at present of peace, and a steady government being soon restored to that distracted eountry, as there was at the beginning of the troubles; and there is not the smallest probab; lity that the republican constitution, framed by the Convention, will last one year after the dissolution of that assembly. 
In tracing the origin and progress of this wonderful revolution, we have consulted every work from which we had reason to look sor information, aad we have confined ourselves to 
a 
simple narration of facts, seldom giving way to the reflections which they suggested. Our facts, too, have been generally stated from writers who are supposed to be not unfriendly to democracy, that they may gain the fuller credit with our own reformers; lor in the most favourable point of view in which those facts can be placed, they furnish the strongest objection possible to all their proposed reformations of the British constitution. If the horrible deeds of darkness which have been acted on the theatre of France cannot make us contented with the government under which we live, and which has been brought to its present state of perfection, not by the metaphysical speculations of recluse philosophers, but by observation and the practical experience of ages, wc shall 
be considered 
by posterity as 
a 
