clination particularly led him, and his inquiries were not confined to any one part of it. His memoirs, his ob servations, his discoveries on the formation of shells, spiders, muscles, the marine flea, the berry which affords the purple colour, and on the cause of the numbnels of the torpedo, excited the curiosity of the public, and early procured our author the character of an able, curious, and entertaining naturalist. Filled with zeal for the welfare and advantage of soeiety, and the progress and perfection of arts, he endeavoured in all his te searches to promote the public good. We were indebt ed to him for the discovery of the Turquois mines in Languedoc. He also found out a substance, which is. used to give false stones a colour, which is obtained from a certain sish called in the French 
dble 
or 
Ablete * 
on account of its whiteness, and which ls the 
Bleak 
or 
Blay 
of our writers fi. His experiments on the art of turning iron into steel obtained him a pension of .12, 000 livres; and this reward was be continued to the Academy to support the expense which might accrue in this art. 
He continued his inquiries on the art of making tin andporcelainj:, and endeavoured to render our thermome ters more useful than those of former times : he composed a curious history of rivers where gold dust is found in F rance; and gave so simple and easy a detail of the art of gathering this dust, that persons have been employed for that purpose. 
He also made curious and important observations on the nature of flints, on the banks of fossil shells, from whence is obtained in Touraine an excellent manure for land; as likewise on birds and their preservation, on their method of budding nests; on insects; and a great number of other subjects, not less curious than useful. 
He imagined at sirst, that a certain varnish would keep eggs fresh; but the waste of time and money, c. showed him the.inconveniences of such a process. He afterwards adopted the method practised for time immemorial in Greece and the islands of the Archipelago, which is to steep or immerse eggs in oil, or melted fat; by this means, not being exposed to the air or to frost, they are well preserved, and contract no bad smell. Another experiment still more important, made by our au thor, was to introduce into France the art of hatching fowl and birds, as practised in Egypt, without covering the eggs. Active, sedulous, and attentive, he was early in his study, often at six in the morning. Exact in his experiments and observations, he let no eircumftance escape him. His writings must be of great use to future philosophers. In society, he was distinguished through life for his modest and agreeable behaviour. His probity, benevolence, goodness of heart, and other ami able qualities, as well natural as acquired, endeared him to his countrymen. He CLI d in the 76th year of his age, on the 18th of October 1757, and left this world filled with sentiments of piety. His death was the consequence of a fall, which happened at the castle of Barnardiere on the Maine, where he went to pafs his vacation. He bequeathed to the Academy of sciences his manuscripts ajjd all his natural productions. His works are, 1. A very great number of memoirs and observations on different parts of natural history; they are printed in the collections of the Academy of sciences, 
a. 
A large work printed sepacately in 6 vols in 4x0, entitled, 
A Natural History of Insects. This important 
work contain? a description of vast numbers of câterpil sers, tnoths^ gall insects, flies with two and four wings, ladybirds, and those ephcmeron flies which live only in that form a few houp; and sastly, of those singular and wonderful insects, which are called 
polypes, 
which being cut into several pieces, each piece lives, grows, and be comes an insect, and affords to our eyes a great number of prodigies. The works of M. de Reaumur are exact, culious, interesting, and very ingenious. They are written with much candour, clearncss, and elegance; but it must be ackowledged his .manner is somewhat too dif fuse. But we must not deceive the rçader; he often raises our expectations, and does’ not give us all the sa tissaction we prömife ourselves from his writings. His method of railing poultry, in particular, rather disap points us. He spared neither care, time, nor expense, to render it practicable : he flattered himself and his countrymen with the greatest hopes; but notwithstasid ing his asslduous industry, and vast charges, it proved abortive. The late M. l’advocat recommended him to obtain better information from Egypt on the subject and lf possible to procure a person versed in the art to instruct him in it; but his death prevented the completion of the scheme. If the native of Egypt had arrived, showed M. de. Reaumur a better method than his own, and practised it with success, as in. his country, the community would have been benefited; on the other hand, he would have seen, had it failed, that the climate of France was not proper for such experiments. M Maillet, consul at Cairo, to whom Monsieur the re gent had written to obtain the art, offered to send over a native of Egypt, if the government would pay the expense of his voyage, and allow him a pension of 1500 livres. M. Maillet rightly judged, whey he preferred this method of proceeding. M. de Reaumur was not ignorant of the design; but he flattered himself, that his efforts would be successful without further aid, and thought he should acquire some honour. He certainly had great talents, industry, sagacity, and every other requisite which are necessary in such attempts; but it is morally impossible that a single man, in a different, CLI mate, can attain such knowledge in an art as those who live in a more favourable country, and have bad the experience of. many ages to profit by : however M. dc Reaumur may have been unsuccesssul, posterity is in debted to him sor his repeated trials. He has removed some difficulties in the road, and those that travel st may discover what he only saw at a distance. 
REAUMURIA, in botany : A genus of the pen tagynia order, belonging to the pentandria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 13th order, 
succulent. 
The calyx is hexaphyllous, and there are five petals; the capsule is unilocular, quinque valved, and polyspermous. 
REBATE, or Rebatement, in commerce, 
a 
term much used at Amsterdam for an abatement in the price of several commodities, when the buyer, instead of ta king time, advances ready money. 
Rebatement, 
in heraldry, a diminution or abatement, 

of the bearings in a coat of arms. see 
Abatement. 
REBELLION, 
Rebellio, 
among the Romans, was where those who had been formerly overcome in bat tie, and yielded to their subjection, made a second rç» sistance; but with us it is generally used 
sor 
the taking 
