the weight of the column of fluid, having twice the productive height for its height. How it is just one half, shall be our next inquiry. 
And here we must return to the labours of sir Isaac Newton. After many beautiful observations on the nature and mechanism of continued fluids, he says, that the ressstance which they occasson is but one half of that occasioned by the rare fluid which had been the subject of his former proposstion; " which truth, ” (says he, with his usual caution and modesty), “I shall endeavour to show.” 
He then enters into another, as novel and as difficult an investigation, viz. the laws of hydraulics, and endeavours to ascertain the motion of fluids through orifices when urged by pressures of any kind. He endeavours to ascertain the velocity with which a fluid escapes through a horizontal orisice in the bottom of a vessel, by the action of its weight, and the pressure which this vein of fluid will exert on a little circle which occupies part of the orisice. To obtain this, he employs a kind of approximation and trial, of which it would be extremely difficult to give an extract; and then, by increasing the diameter of the vessel and of the hole to insinity, he accommodates his reasoning to the case of a plane surface exposed to an indesinitely extended stream of fluid; and lastly, giving to the little circular surface the motion which he had before ascribed to the fluid, he says, that the resistance to a plane surface moving through au unelastic continuous fluid, is equal to the weight of a column of the fluid whose height is one half of that necessary for acquiring the velocity; and he says, that the resistance of a globe is, in this case, the same with that of a cylinder of the same diameter. The resistance, therefore, of the cylinder or circle is four times lesss and that of the globe is twice less than their resistances on a rare elastic medium. 
But this determination, though founded on principles or assumptions, which are much nearer to the real state of things, is liable to great objections. It depends on his method for ascertaining the velocity of the issuing fluid; a method extremely ingenious, but defective. The cataract, which he supposes, cannot ex ist as he ftippofes, descending by the full action off gravity, and surrounded by a funnel of stagnant fluid. For, in such circumstances, there is nothing to balance the hydrostatical pressure of this surrounding fluid; because the whole pressure of the central cataract is em ployed in producing its own descent. In the next place, the pressure which he determines is beyond all doubt only half of what is observed on a plane surface in all our experiments. And, in the third place, it is repugnant to all our experience, that the resistance of 
a. 
globe or of a pointed body is as great as that of its circular base. His reasons are by no means convincing. He supposes them placed in a tube or canal; and since they are supposed of the same diameter, and therefore leave equal spaces at their fides, he concludes, that because the water escapes by their fides with the same 
velocity, 
they will have the same resistance. But this is by no means a neeessary consequence. Even if the water should be allowed to exert equal pressures on them, the pressures being perpendicular to their surfaces, and these surfaces being inclined to the axis, while in the case of the base of a cylinder it is in 
the 
direction of the axis, there must be a difference in 
the accumulated or compound pressure in the direction of the axis. He indeed says, that in the case of the cylinder or the circle obstructing the canal, a quantity of water remains stagnant on its upper surface; viz. all the water whose motion would not contribute to the most ready passage of the fluid between the cy liuder and the fides of the canal or tube; and that this water may be considered as frozen. If this be the case, it is indifferent what is the form of the body that is covered with this mass of frozen or stagnant water. It may be a hemisphere or a cone; the resistance will be the lame. But Newton by no means assigns, ei there with precision or with distinct evidence, the form and magnitude of this stagnant water, so as to give con fidence in the results. He contents himself with say ing, that it is that water whose motion is not necessary or cannot contribute to the most easy passage of the water. 
i here remains, therefore, many imperfections in this theory. But notwithstanding these defects, we cannot but admire the efforts and sagacity of this great philosopher, who, after having discovered so many sublime truths of mechanical nature, ventured to trace out a path for the solution of a problem which no person had yet attempted to bring within the range of mathematical investigation. And his solution, though inac curate, shines throughout with that inventive genius and that fertility of resource, which no man ever pos sessed in so eminent a degree. 
Those who have attacked the solution of sir Isaac Newton have not been more successsul. Most of them, instead of principles, have given a great deal of calculus’; and the chief merit which any of them can claim, is that of having deduced some iingle proposition which. happens to quadrate with some *· single case of experiment, while their general theories are either inapplicable, from difficulty and obscurity, or are discordant with more general observation. 
we must, however, except from this number Daniel Bernoulli, who was not only a great geometer, but one of the first philosophers of the age. He possessed all the talents, and was free from the faults of that celebrated family; and while he was the mathematician of Europe who penetrated farthest in the investigation of this great problem, he was the only person who felt, or at least who acknowledged, its great difficulty. 
In the 2d volume of the 
Comment. Petropol. 
1727, he proposes a formula for the resistance of fluids, de duced srom considerations quite different from those on which Newton founded his solution. But he delivers it with modest diffidence; because he found that it gave a resistance four times greater than experiment. In the same dissertation he determines the resistance of a sphere to be one half of that of its great circle. But in his subsequent theory. of Hydrodynamics (a work which must ever rank among the first productlons of the age, and is equally eminent for refined and elegant mathematics, and ingenious and original thoughts in dynamics), he calls this determination in question. It is indeed founded on the same hypothetical principles which have been unskilfuliy detached from the rest of newton’s physics, and made the groundwork of all the subsequent theories on this subject. 
In 1741 Mr Daniel Bernoulli published another dis 
