to folds, and these folds again wrinkled. The body was bulky and round, and from the shoulder ran a line, or sold, as in the single horned rhinoceros, though it was but faintly marked. There were several other folds and wrinkles on the body and legs; and the whole gave rather the appearance of softness : the legs were thick, short, and remarkably strong;; feet armed with three distinct hoofs, of a blackish colour, which surrounded half the foot, one in front, the others on each side. — The soles of the feet were convex, of a light colour, and the cuticle on them not thicker than that on the foot of a man who is used to walking; the testicles Hardly appeared externally; the penis was bent backward, and opened about 18 inches below the anus. At its origin it was as thick as a man’s leg, and about two feet and a half long; the bend in it occasions the urine to be discharged backwards. The glans is very singular; the opening of the urethra is like the mouth of a cup with its brim bending over a little and is about three quarters of an inch in diameter; the glans here is about half an inch in diameter, and continues that thick ness for an inch and a half : it is then inserted into another cup like the first, but three times as large; the glans afterwards gradually becomes thicker, and at about nine inches from the opening of the urethra are placed two bodies on the upper part of the glans, very like the nipples of a milch cow, and as large; these become turgid when the penis is erected; the whole of this is contained in the prepuce, and may be considered as glans. From the of pubis arises a strong muscle, which soon becomes tendinous : this tendon is continued along the back or upper part of the penis; it is flattened, is about the size of a man’s little finger, and is inserted into the upper part of the glans, near the end. The use of this muscle is to straighten the penis. On the under side of the penis there are two muscles, antagonists to the above; they arise from the of ifchium fleshy, run along the lower side of the penis, on each side of the corpus spongiosum, and are inserted fleshy into the lower side of the glans; the action of these muscles will draw in the penis, and bend it. The male has two nipples, like the female, situated between the hind legs; they are about half an inch in length, of a pyramidal form, rounded at the end. 
"The whole skin of the animal is rough, and covered very thinly with short black hair. The skin was not more than one third of an inch in thickness at the strongest part; under the belly it was hardly a quarter of an inch; any part of it might be cut through with ease by a common dissecting knife. The animal had not that appearance of armour which is observed in the single horned rhinoceros. since I dissected the male, I have had an opportunity of examining a female, which was more of a lead colour : it was younger than the male, and had not so many folds or wrinkles in its skin; of course it had still less the appearance of armour. The only external mark which distinguishes it from the male is the vagina, which is close to the anus; whereas in the male the opening for the penis is 18 inches below the anus.” 
From the difference between this account and spar man’s, which in some particulars is considerable, and from the difference of shape, we are disposed to think them varieties. Mr bruce’s drawing of the rhinoceros bicornis is unquestionably a deception; the body of the animal, as there represented, corresponds exactly with that of the unicornis except in its having two horns on its head. In the museum of the late Dr William Hunter, the two horned animal was preserved, agreeing exactly with the general accounts and figures we have of that animal, but differing essentially from Mr bruce’s. For further particulars respecting these curious animals, we refer to Buffon, vol. VI p. 92 — 117; sparman's Voyage to the Cape, vol. II chap. 12.; and bruce’s Travels, vol. IV p. 296, c. and Appendix, p. 85, c. 
rhinoceros bird. 
see Buceros. 
RHITΥΜΝΑ. sec RETIMO. 
rhizobalus, in botany : A genus of the te 
tragynia order, belonging to the polyandria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 23d order, 
Trihilatœ. 
The calyx monophyllous, fleshy, and downy; the corolla consists of five petals, which are round, concave, fleshy, and much larger than the calyx; the stamina are very numerous, filiform, and longer than the corolla; the styli are four, filiform, and of the length of the stamina; the pericarpium has four drupæ, kidney shaped, compressed with a fleshy sub stance inside, and in the middle a flat large nut con taining a kidney shaped kernel. Of this there is only one species, viz. 
Pekia. 
The nut is sold in the shops as American nuts; they are flat, tuberculated, and kid ney shaped, containing a kernel of the same shape, which is sweet and agreeable. Clusius gives a good figure of the nut, and Aublet has one of the whole plant. 
RHIZOPHORA, the mangrove, or 
Mangle, 
in botany: : genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the dodecandria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 12th order, 
Holoraceœ. 
The calyx is quadripartite, the corolla partite; there is one seed, very long, and carnous at the base. These plants are natives of the East and west Indies, and often grow 40 or 50 feet high. They grow only in water and 011 the banks of rivers, where the tide flows up twice a day. They preserve the verdure of their leaves throughout the year. From the lowest branches issue long roots, which hang down to the water, and penetrate into the earth. In this position they resemble so many arcades, from five to ten feet high, which serve to support the body of the tree, and even to advance it daily into the bed of the water. These arcades are so closely intertwisted one with another, that they form a kind of natural and transparent terrace, raised with such solidity over the water, that one might walk upon them, were it not that the branches are too much encumbered with leaves. The most natural way of propagating these trees, is to suffer the several slender small filaments which issue from the main branches to take root in the earth. The most common method, however, is that of laying the small lower branches in baskets of mould or earth till they have taken root. 
The description just given pertains chiefly to a particular species of mangrove, termed hythe west In 
that once at a hunting match he saw the point of a rhinoceros’s horn broken off by a musket shot; the consequence of which was, that the creature was for a moment deprived of all appearance of life. 
