sect , and is armed with sharp thorns, two of which are at each joint, one of which is about half an inch long, straight, and upright; the other is scarcely half that length, and bent backward; and between them is the bud sor next year’s shoot. June is the time oi flowering, and the flowers are succeeded by a small fruit, sur roundedby a membrane. " This plant (says Hanbury) is undoubtedly the sort of which the crown of thorns sor our Blessed saviour was composed. The branches are very pliant, and the spines of it are at every joint strong and sharp. It grows naturally about Jerusalem, as well as in many parts of Judaea;; there is no doubt that the barbarous Jews would make choice of it sor their cruel purpose. But what farther confirms the truth of these thorns being then used, are the ancient pictures of our Blessed saviour’s crucifixion. The thorns of the crown on his head exactly answer to those of this tree; and there is great reason to suppose these were taken srom the. earliest paintings of the Lord of Life : and even now our modern painters copy srom them, and represent the crown as composed of these thorns. These plants, therefore, should principally have a share in those parts of the plantation that are more peculiarly designed sor religious retirement; for they will prove excellent monitors, and conduce to due reflection on and gratitude to ‘ Him who hath loved us, and lias washed us from our fuis, ” c. 
7. The common alaternus is an evergreen tree, and native of the south of Europe. There are several varieties of this species; the most remarkable of which are the broad leaved and the jagged leaved alaternus, which have all been confounded with the phillyrea. 
8. The insectorius, or narrow leaved buckthorn, is an evergreen shrub or tree, and native of spain. It grows to the height of 10 or 12 feet, and sends forth several branches from the bottom to the top. They are co vered with a blackish or dark coloured bark, and each f them is terminated by a long sharp thorn. The fruit continues on the trees all winter, making a beautiful appearance among the narrow cluttered leaves at that season. 
9. The oleoides, or olive leaved buckthorn, is an evergreen shrub, and native of spain, and grows to the height of 8 or 1 o seet. It sends forth numerous branclies, each of which is terminated by a long sharp spine. The flowers are small, of a whitish green colour, and are suc ceeded by round black berries. 
rhamphastos, in ornithology, a genus be longing to the order of picae. The bill is very large, and serrated outwardly. The nostrils are situated behind the base of the beak; and in most of the species the feet aie toed, and placed two forwards and two backwards. The tongue is long, narrow, and feathered on the edges. Mr Latham enumerates 15 disscrent species; of which the toucans are the most remarkable, and were formerly divided into four or sive varieties, though Mr Latham makes them distinct species, of which we shali only describe that called the red beaked toucan. 
This bird is about the size of a jackdaw, and of a similar shape, with a large head to support its monstrous bill : this bill, from the angles of the mouth to its point, is six inches and an half; and its breadth in the thickest part is a little more than two. Its thickness near the head is one inch and a quarter; and it is 
a 
little rounded along the top of the upper chap, the under side. being round also; the whole of the bill extremely slight, and a little thicker than parchment. The upper chap is of a bright yellow, except on each side, which is of a fine searlet colour; as is also the lower chap, except at the base, which is purple. Between the head and the bill there is a black 
lire 
of separation all round the base of the bill; in the upper part of which the nostrils are placed, and are almost covered with feathers; which has occasioned some writers to say that the toucan has no nostrils. Round the eyes, on each side of the head, is a space of bluish skin, void of feathers; above which the head is black, except a white spot on each side joining to the base of the, upper chap. The hinder part of the neck, the back, wings, tail, belly, and thighs, are black. The under side of the head, throat, and the beginning of the breast, are white. Between the white on the breast, and the black on the belly, is a space of red feathers, in the form of a new moon, with its horns upwards. The legs, seet, and claws, are of an ash colour; and the toes stand like those of parrots, two before and two behind. 
It is reported by travellers, that this bird, though surnished with fo formidable a beak, is harmless and. gentle, being so easily made tame as to sit and hatch its young in houses. It seeds chiefly upon pepper, which it devours very greedily, gorging itself in such a manner that it voids it crude and unconcocted. This, however, is no objection to the natives from using it again : they even prefer it before that pepper which is fresh gathered from the tree; and seem persuaded that the stiength and heat of the pepper is qualified by the bird, and that all its noxious qualities are thus ex hausted. 
whatever be the truth of this report, nothing is more certain than that the toucan lives only upon a vegetable diet; and, in a domestic state, to which it is frequently brought in the warm countries where it is bred, it is seen to prefer such food to all other. Pozzo, who bred one tame, asserts, that it leapt up and down, wagged the tail, and cried with a voice resembling that of a magpie. It fed upon the same things that parrots do; but was most greedy of grapes, which, being plucked off one by one, and thrown in the air, it would most dexterously catch before they sell to the ground. Its bill, he adds, was hollow, and upon that account very light, so that it had but little strength in fo apparently formidable a weapon; nor could it peck or strike smartly therewith. But its tongue seemed to assist the efforts of this unwieldy machine : it was long, thin, and flat, not unlike one of the feathers on the neck of a dunghill cock; this it moved up and down, and often extended sive or six inches from the bill. It was of a flesh colour, and remarkably fringed on each side with very small silaments.. exactly resembling a feather. 
It is probable that this long tongue has greater strength than the thin hollow beak that contains it. It is likely that the beak is only a kind of sheath sor this peculiar instrument, used by the toucan, not only in making itself a nest, but also in obtaining its pro vision. Nothing is more certain, than that this bird builds its uest in holes of trees, which have been pre 
