Ά 
piece of silver coin weighing 
a 
centigrave, 
and 
a 
franc 
of silver, according to the former standard will be worth 40 fols 
iof 
deniers. The 
milliare, 
or thou sand ffjf/rij, is substituted for the mile; and the 
are, 
■for the arpent in land ineasure. The latter two are to each other as 49 to 
25. 
The astronomical circles with which M. M. de Borda and Cassini made the obser "vations, are divided according to this plan. The qua •drant contains 1o0 degrees, and each degree 100 minutes. Hence the minute of a great circle on our globe is equal to a 
miuiare, 
or new French mile. If, for the reduction of this measure, we estimate the Paris toise, according to the comparison made with the standard kept in the Royal society of London, at 6.3925 English feet, the 
milliare 
or minute will be equal to 1093.f?33 yai s > st the 
metre 
3.280899 feet. 
. At the same period a new calendar was formed. — By it the year is made 
to 
begin with the autumnal ‘equinox, and is divided into 12 months. These are ‘called Vindemaire, Brumaire, Frimaire, Nivos, Ventos, •pluvios, Germinal, Frorial, Praireal, Meffidor, fervi ’dor, and Fructider. The months consist of 30 days each, and are divided into three decades. The days of oach decade are known by the names of Primidi, duo "di, Tridi, c. to Decadi; and the day of rest is ap "pointed for every tenth day, instead of the seventh. The day (which begins at midnight) is distributed into tell parts, and these are decimally divided and subdivided. Five supernumerary days are added every year after the 30th of Fructidor. To these is given the ab surd appellation of 
sans Cullottides, 
a word borrowed from a term of reproach 
(fans cullotte), 
which had often been bestowed on the republican party from the jneannefs of their rank and fortune; but which that party now attempted to render honourable and popular. The childish folly of this innovation has struck every person with surprise, as it can serve no good purpose whatever. It is a wonderful instance of the way wardness of the human mind, which can occupy itself one moment with deeds of savage barbarity, and the next with a matter so unimportant as the artificial division of time. 
The religion of France had been gradually Iofing its influence; and on the 7th of November, Gobet bishop of Paris, along with a great multitude of other eccle siastics, came into the hall of the convention, and solemn ly resigned their functions and renounced the Christian religion. All the clergymen, whether Protestant or Catholic, that were members of the convention, followed this example, excepting only Gregoire, whom we formerly mentioned as having been one of the first priests that joined the 
Tiers Fiat 
after the meeting of the states General. He had the courage to profess himself 
a 
Christian, although he said that the emoluments of his bishoprsc were at the service of the republic, with the acclamations of the convention, it was decreed that the only French deities hereafter should be Liberty, Equality, Reason, c. and they would seem to have consecrated these as a kind of new objects of worship. — what political purpose the leaders in the convention intended to serve by this proceeding does pot clearly appear;; perhaps, their object was to render the French manners and modes of thinking so completely new', that it should never be in their power to return to the state from which they had just emerged, or to unite 
in intercourse with the other nations of Europe. 
The 
populace, however, could not at once relinquish en tirely the religion of their fathers. The Commune of Paris ordered the churches to be shut up, but the Convention found it necessary to annul this order; and Robespierre gained no smali degree of popularity by supporting the liberty of religious worship on this occasion. Hebert and Fabre d’eglantine, who led the op posite party, hastened their own fall by this ill judged contempt of popular opinion. 
For, now that the republic saw itself successful in all quarters, when the Mountain party and the Jacobins had no rival at home, and accounted themselves in no immediate danger from abroad, they began to split into factions, and the fiercest jealousies arose. The Jacobin Club was the usual place in which their contests were carried 011; and at this time Robespierre acted the part of a mediator between all parties. Fie attempted with great art to turn their attention from private animosities to public affairs. He spread a report that an invasion of Great Britain was speedily to take place. He therefore proposed that the Jacobin Club should set themselves to work to diseover the vulnerable parts of the Brstish constitutson and government. They did so : They made speeches, and wrote essays without number. And in this way was the most fierce and turbulent band of men that ever perhaps existed in any country occupied and amused for a very considerable time, what is no less singular, a great number of British subjects favoured the plans of these reforming Atheists, and, under the specious appellation of the 
Friends of the People, 
acted in concert with the French Jacobins. 
The winter passed away in tolerable qusetness, and no military enterprise was undertaken either by the allies or by the French. On the ist of February, Barrere asserted in the Convention that the confederate powers were willing 
provisionally 
to acknowledge the French republic, to consent to a cessation oi hostilities for two years, at the end of which a lasting peace should be ratified by the French people. But this proposal the Convention declared itself determined to reject, as affording to the other nations of Europe the means of undermining their new government. In the mean time, the revolutionary government was gradually becoming ' more vigorous. Thirty committees of the Convention managed the whole business of the state, without sha ring^much of the direct executive government, which rested in the committee of public safety. These diffe rent committees were engaged in the utmost variety of objects. The ruling party had no competitors for power, without confusion or opposition, therefore, the most extensive plans were rapidly carried into effect. The Convention was little more than a court in which 
every project was solemnly registered. In the same ses iion 30 decrees would sometimes be passed upon objects the most widely different. The finances were under one committee, at the head of which was Cambon. — This committee found resources for the most lavish ex penditure. The assignats were received as money throughout the state; and thus a paper mill was said to have become more valuable than a mine of gold. Their credit was supported by an arbitrary law regulating the 
maximum 
or highest price of all provisions, and by the immense mass of wealth which had come into the hands 
of 
the Convention by seizing the church lands, and 
by confiscating the property of royalists, 
emigrants, and 
