Prof . 
"Aries had hoisted the standard of rebellion; 'you favoured it by sending three civil commissaries, who made it their busmefs not to repress the counter revolutionists, but to justify their proceedings. — what have you to answer ?” 
Lows. 
"The instructions which were given to the commissaries must prove what was their mission;; I knew none of them when the ministers proposed them to me.” 
Prof 
"Avignon, and the county of Venaiffin, had been united with France; you caused the decree to be executed; but a month aster that time civil war desolated that country. The commissaries you sent thither helped to ravage it. — what have you to answer?” 
Louis. 
“I do not remember what delay has been caused in the execution of the decree; besides, this occurrence has no personal reference to me; it only con cerns those that haye been sent, not those who sent them.” 
• Pres. 
"Nîmes, Montauban, Mende, Jales, felt great shocks dm ing the sirst days of freedom. You did nothing to stisse those germens of counter revolution till the moment when saillant’s conspiracy became mani festly notorious. — what have you to answer ?” 
Louis. 
"I gave, in this respect, ali the orders which were proposed to me by the ministers.” 
Prof 
“You sent 22 battalions against the marseil lois, who marched to reduce the counter revolutionists of Arles. - what have you to answer ?” 
Louis. 
“I ought to have the pieces referring to this matter, to give a just answer.” 
Prof 
“You gave the southern command to wit genstein, who wrote to you on the ist of April 1792, after he had been recalled : ‘ A sew instants more, and I shall call around the throne of your Majesty thousands of French, who are again become worthy of the wishes you form sor their happiness.’ — what have you to answer?” ?” 

"This letter is dated since his recall; he has not been employed since. I do not recollect this letter.” 
Prof. 
"You paid your late lifeguards at Coblentz; the registers of septeuil attest this; and general orders signed by you prove that you sent considerable remit tances to Bouille, Rochefort, Vauguyon, Choiseul, Beaupre, Hamilton, and the wife of Polignac. — what have you to answer ?” 
Louis. 
"when I sirst learned that my lifeguards assembled beyond the Rhine, I stopped their pay : as to the rest, ί do not remember ?” 
Prof 
“Your brothers, enemies to the state, caused the emigrants to rally under their banners : they raised regiments, took up loans, and concluded alliances in your name : you did not diselaim them 5 but at the moment when you were fully certain that you could no longer cross their projects, your intelligence with them by a note, written by Louis stanisiaus Xavier, signed by your two brothers, was conceived in these words : 
‘ I wrote to yon, but it was by post, and I could say nothing. Year two here, who make but one; one in sentiments, one in principles, one in zeal of serving 
you. we 
keep silence; because, were we to Jbreak it too soon, it would injure you : but we shall speak as soon as we shall be certain of general support, 
ad that moment is near. If we are spoken to on the 
part of those people, we shall hear nothing; 
but 
is on your part, we will listen : we shall pursue our road straiglit. It is therefore desired that you will enable us to say something. Do not stand on ceremonies. Be easy about your sasety : we only exist to serve you; we are eagerly occupied with this point, and all goes on well; even our enemies feel themseives too much interested in your preservation to commit an useless crime which would terminate in their own destruction. Adieu. 
‘ L s. 
Xavier 
and 
‘ Charles Philippe? 
"what have you to answer ?” 
Louis. 
"I disowned all the proceedings of 
my 
brothers, according as the conststution preseribed me to do, and srom the moment they came to my knowledge. Of this note I know nothing.” 
prej. 
"The soldiers of the line, who were to be put on the war establishment, consisted but of ic 0, 000 men at the end of December, you therefore neglected to provide for the sasety of the state from abroad. nar bonne required a levy of 50, 000 men, but he stopped the recruiting at 26, 000, in giving affnrances that all was ready; yet there was no truth in these assurances. servan proposed after him to form a camp of 20, 000 men near Paris; it was decreed by the legislative assembly 5 you resused your sanction. — what have you to answer ?” 
Louis. 
"I had given to the ministers all the orders for expediting the augmentation of the army : in the month of December last, the returns were laid before the Assembly. If they deceived themselves, it is not my fault.” 
Prof 
"A ssight of patriotism made the citizens re pair to Paris from all quarters. You issued a procla mation, tending to stop their march; at the same time our camps were without soldiers. Dumourier, the successor of servan, declared that the nation had neither arms, ammunition, nor provisions, and that the posts were left defenceless. You waited to be urged by a re quest made to the minister Lajard, when the legissative assembly wished to point out the means of providing sor the external sasety of the state, by proposing the levy of 42 battalions. You gave commission to the commanders of the troops to diiband the army, to force whole regiments to desert, and to make them pass the Rhine, to put them at the disposal of your brothers, and of Leopold of Austria, with whom you had intelligence. Ί his fact is proved by the letter of toulou geon, governor of Franche Comté. — what have you to answer ?” 
Lows. 
"I know nothing of this circumstance; there is not a word of truth in this charge.” 
Prof. 
"You charged your diplomatscal agents to favour this coalition of foreign powers and your brothers against France, and especially to cement the peace between Turkey and Austria, and to procure thereby a larger number of troops against France from the latter. A letter of Choiseul gouffier, ambassador at con stantinople, verifies the fact— — have you to answer?” ?” 

"M. Choiseul did not speak the truth : no such thing has ever been.” 
P'of 
“The Prussians advanced against our frontiers : your minister was summoned on the 8th of July 
to give an account of 
the 
state of our 
political relations 
