peheve that eur 
naval architects are 
not 
disposed to grant that they have profited much by all the labours of the mathematicians. But the ancients had not made any great progress in the physicomathematical scscnees, which consist chiefly in thc application of calculus to the phenomena of nature. In this branch they could make none, because they had not the means of investigation. A knowledge of the motions and actions of fluids is accessible only to those who are familiarly acquainted with the fluxionary mathematics; and with out this key there is no admittance. Even when possessed of this guide, our progress has been very slow, hesitating, and devious; and we have not yet been able to establish any set of doctrines which are susceptible of an easy and confident application to the arts of life. If we have advanced farther than the ancients, it is because we have come after them, and have prosited by their labours, and even by their mistakes. 
sir Isaac Newton was the sirst (as far as we can recollect) who attempted to make the motions and ac tions of fluids the subject of mathematical discuffiorr. ■he had invented the method of fluxions long before he engaged in his physical researches; and he proceeded in these 
suâ mathfi fucem proferente. 
Yet even with this guide he was often obliged to grope his way, and to try various bye paths, in the hopes of obtaining 
a 
legitimate theory. Having exerted all his powers in establishing a theory of the lunar motions, lie was obliged to rest contented with an approximation instead of a perfect solution of the problem which ascertains the motions of three bodies mutually acting on each other. This convinced him that it was in vain to expect an accurate investigation of the motions and actions of fluids, where millions of unseen particles combine their influence. He therefore cast about to sind some particular cafe of the problem which would admit of an accurate determination, and at the same time furnish eircumstances of analogy or resemblance sufficiently numerous for giving limiting cases, which should include between them those other cafes that did not admit of this accurate investigation. And thus, by knowing the limit to which the cafe proposed did approximate, and the circumstance which regulated the approximation, many useful propositions might be deduced for directing us in the application of these doc trines to the arts of life. 
He therefore figured to himself a hypothetical col lection of matter which possessed the characteristic property of fluidity, viz. the 
qudqudverfum 
propagation of pressure, and the most perfect intermobility (pardon the uncouth term) of parts, and which formed a phy. sical whole or aggregate, whose parts were connected by mechanical forces, determined both in degree and in direction, and such as rendered the determination of certain important circumstances of their motion susceptible of precise investigation. And he concluded, that the laws which he should discover in these motions must have a great analogy with the laws of the motions of real fluids : And from this hypothesis he deduced a series of propositions, which form the basis of almost all the theories of the impulse and resistance of fluids which have been offered to the public since his time. 
It must be acknowledged, that the results of this theory agree but ill with experiment, and that, 
in the way in which it has been zealoofly prosecuted by subsequent mathematician's, 
it proceeds on principles or assumptions which are not only gratuitous, but even false. But it affords such a beautiful application of geometry and calculus, that mathematicians have been as it were sase cinated by it, and have published iystems so elegant and so extensively applicable, that one cannot help lamenting that the foundation is so flimsy. John bernoulli’s theory, in his dissertation on the communication of motion, and bouguer’s in his 
Traité du Navire, 
and in his 
Théorie du Manœuvre et delà Mâture des vaisseau, \, 
ever be considered as among the finest specimens of physicomathematical science which the world has seen. And, with all lts imperfections, this theory still furnishes (as was expected by its illustrious author) many propositions of immense practical use, they being the limits to which the real phenomena of the impulse and relistance of fluids really approximate. so that when the law by which the phenomena deviate from the theory is once determined by a well chosen series of experiments, this hypothetical theory becomes almost as valuable as a true one. And we may add, that although Mr d’alembert, by treading warily in the steps of sir Isaac Newton in another route, has discovered a genuine and unexceptionable theory, the process of investigation is so intricate, requiring every sinesse of the most abstruse analysss, and the final equations are so complicated, that even their most expert author has not been able to deduce more than one simple proposition (which too was discovered by Daniel Bernoulli by a more simple process) which can be applied to any use. The hypothetica! theory of 
New 
tonne, therefore, continues to be the groundwork of all our practical knowledge of the subject. 
we shall therefore lay before our readers a very short view of the theory, and the manner of applying it. we shall then show its defects (all of which were pointed out by its great author), and give an historical account of the many attempts which have been made to amend it or to substitute another: in all which we think it our duty to show, that sir Isaac Newton took the lead, and pointed out every path which others have taken, if we except Daniel Bernoulli and d’alembert; and we shall give an account of the chief sets of experiments which’ have been made on this important subject, in the hopes of establishing an empirical theory, which may be employed with confidence in the arts of life. 
we know by experience that force must be applied to a body in order that it may move through a fluid, such as air or water; and that a body projected with any velocity is gradually retarded in its motion, and generally brought to rest. The analogy of nature makes us imagine that there is a force acting in the opposite direction, or opposing the motion, and that this force resides in, or is exerted by, the fluid. And the phenomena resemble those which accompany the known resistance of active beings, such as animals. there fore we give to this supposed force the metaphorical name of Resistance. we also know that a fluid in motion will hurry a solid body along with the stream, and that it requires force to maintain it in its place. A similar analogy makes us suppose that the fluid exerts force, in the same manner as when an active being impels the body before him; therefore we call this the 
impulsion of a Fluid. 
And as our knowledge of nature insorms· us that the mutual actions of bodies are III 
