to the difference of pressure, we must always take in the pressure of the atmosphere; and thus the pressure at 33 feet deep is not 33 times the pressure at one foot deep, but only double, or twice as great. The atmo spheric pressure is omitted only when the resisted plane is at the very fursace. D’ulloa, in his 
Fxamino Maritimo, 
has introduced an equation expressing this relation; but, except with very limited conditions, it will misiead ns prodigioussy. To give a general notion of its foundation, let AB (sig. 23.) be the section of a plane moving through a fluid in the direction CD with a known velocity. Thc fluid will b.c. heaped up before it above its natural level CD because the water will not be pushed before it like a solid body, but will be pushed aside. And it cannot acquire a lateral motion any other way than by an accumulation, which will diffuse itself in all directions by the law of undulatory motion. The water will also be left lower behind the plane, because time 
muß 
elapse before the pressure of the water behind can make it sill the space. We may acquire some notion of the extent of both the accumulation and depression in this way. There is a certain 
«υ1 
depth CF (= —, where 
V 
is the velocity, and; · the 
accelerating power of gravity) under the surface, such that water would flow through a hole at F with the velocity of the plane’s motion. Draw a horizontal line FG. The water will certainly touch the plane in G, and we may suppose that it touches it no higher up. Therefore there will be a hollow, such as CGE. The elevation HE will be regulated by considerations nearly similar. ED must be equal to the velocity of the plane, and HE lust be its productive height. Thus, if the velocity of the plane be one foot /·'«?' second, HE and EG will be tcr°f an inch. This is sufficient (though not exact) for giving us a notion of the thing. We see that from this must arise a pressure in the direction DC, viz. the pressure of the whole column HG. 
something of the same kind will happen although thc plane AB be wholly immerged, and this even to some depth, we see such elevations in a swift running stream, where there are large stones at the bottom. — This occasions an excess of pressure in the direction op posite to the plane’s motion; and we see that there must, iu every case, be a relation between the velocity and this excess of pressure. This D’ulloa expresses by an equation. But it is very exceptionable, not taking properly into the account the comparative facility with which the water can heap up and diffuse itsels. It must always heap up till it acquires a sufficient head of water to produce a lateral and progressive dissusion sufficient sor the purpose. It is evident, that a smaller elevation will suffice when the body is more immersed, because the check or impulse given by the body below is propagated, not vertically only, but in every direction; and therefore the elevation is not confined to that part of the sursace which is immediately above the moving body, but extends so much farther laterally as the centre of agitation is deeper : Thus, the elevation necessary sor the passage of the body is so much smaller; and it is the 
height 
only of this accumulation or wave which de termines the backward pressure on the body. d’ulloa’s equation may happen to quadrate with two experiments at different depths, without being nearly just; sor 
any two 
points may be in a curve without exhibiting its 
equation. Three points will do it with some approach to precision; but four, at least, are necessary sor giving any notion of its nature. D’ulloa has only given two experiments, which we mentioned in another place. 
we may here observe, that it is this circumstance which immediately produces the great resistance to the motion of a body through a fluid in a narrow canal. —. The fluid cannot pass the body, unless the area of thc section be sufficiently extensive. A narrow canal pre vents the extension sidewise. The water must therefore heap up, till the section and velocity of diffusion are sufficiently enlarged, and thus a great backward pressure is produced. (see the second series of Experiments by the French Academicians; see also franklin’s Essays.) It is important, and will be considered in another placet 
h us have we attempted to give our readers some account of one of the most interesting problems in the whole of mechanical philosophy. we are sorry that so little advantage can be derived srom the united efforts of the .sirst mathematicians of Europe, and that there is so little hope of greatly improving our scientisic knowledge of the subjtct. what we have delivered will, however, enable our readers to peruse the writings of those who have applied the theories to practical purposes. such, sor instance, are the treatises of John Bernoulli, of Bouguer, and of Euler, on the construction and working of ships, and the occasional disserta tions of different authors on water mills. In this last application the ordinary theory is not without its value, sor the impulses are nearly perpendicular; in which case they do not materially deviate srom the duplicate proportion of the sine of incidence. But even here this theory, applied as it commonly is, misieads us exceedingly. 'Πιε impulse 011 one float may be accurately enough stated by it; but the authors have not been attentive to the motion of the water aster it has made its impulse; and the impnlse on the next float is stated the same as is the parallel silaments of water, which were not stopped by the preceding float, did impinge on the opposite part of the second, in the same manner, and with the same obliquity and energy, as is it were detached srom the rest. But this does not in the least resemble the real process of nature. 
suppose the floats B, C D, H (fig. 24.) of a wheel immersed in a stream whose sursace moves in the direction AK, and that this sursace meets the float B in E, The part B E alone is supposed to be impelled; whereas the water, checked by the float, heaps up on it to 
e. — · 
Then drawing the horizontal line BF, the part CF of the next float is supposed to be ass that is impelled by the parallel silaments of the stream; whereas the water bends round the lower edge of the float B by the sur rounding pressure, and rises on the float 
C 
all the way to of In like manner, the float D, instead of receiving an impulse on the very small portion D G, is impelled all the way from D to 
g, 
not much below the sursace of the stream. The surfaces impelled at once, therefore, greatly exceed what this siovenly application of the theory supposes, and the whole impulse is much greater; but this is a fault in the application, and not in the theory. It will not be a very difficult thing to acquire a knowledge of the motion of the water which has passed the preceding float, which, though not accurate, will yet approximate considerably to the 
truth; 
and. 
