peace , alliance, and commerce; and no treaty shall have effect but by this ratification. 
The deliberations of the legislative body shall be public, and the minutes of the sittings shall be printed. 
The legislative body may, however, on any occasion, form itself into a general committee. 
The plan of a decree shall be read thrice, at three intervals, the shortest of which cannot be less than eight days. 
The decrees of the legislative body are presented to the king, who may refuse them his consent. 
In case of a refusal of the royal consent, that refusal is only suspensive. when the two following legislatures shall successively present the same decree in the same terms on which it was originally conceived, the king shall be deemed to have given his sanction. 
The king is bound to express his consent or resusal so each decree within two months after its presenta tion. 
No decree to which the king has refnsed his consent can be again presented to him by the same legislature. 
The supreme executive power resides exclusively in the hands of the king. 
The king is the supreme head of the land and sea forces. 
The king names ambassadors, and the other agents of political negotiations. 
He bellows the command of armies and fleets, and the ranks of marshal of France and admiral : 
He names two thirds of the rear admirals, one half of the lieutenant generals, camp marshab, captains of ships, and colonels of the national gendarmerie : 
He names a third of the colonels and lieutenant co lonels, and a sixth of the lieutenants of ships : 
He appoints in the civil administration of the marine, the directors, the comptrollers, the treasurers of the arsenals, the masters of the works, the under masters of civil buildings, half of the masters of administration, and the under masters of construction. 
He appoints thc commissaries of the tribunals : 
He appoints the superintendants in chief of the management of contributions indirect, " and the admini stration of national domains : ” 
He superintends the coinage of money, and appoints officers entrusted with this fuperintendance in the 
general 
commission and the mints. 
The effigy of the king is struck on all the coinage of the kingdom. 
There is in each department 
a 
superior administra ’tion, and in each district a subordinate administration. 
The adminstrators are specially charged with distri buting the contributions direct, and with superintend ing the money arising from the contributions, and the public revenues in their territory. 
The king has the right of annulling such acts of the administrators of department as are contrary to the law or the orders transmitted to them. 
He may, in case of obstinate disobedience, or of their endangering, by their acts, the sasety or peace of the public, suspend them from their functions. 
The king alone can interfere in foreign political connexions. 
Every declaration of war sllall be made in these terms : 
By the king of the French in the name of the nation. 
The judicial power can in no case be exercised either by the legislative body or the king. 
Justice shall be gratuitously rendered by judges chosen from time to time by the people, and instituted by letters patent of the king, who cannot resuse them. 
"The public accuser shall be nominated by the people.” 
"The right of citizens to terminate disputes desi nitively by arbitration, cannot receive any infringement from the acts of the legislative power.” 
In criminal matters, no citizen can be judged ex cept on an accusation received by jurors, or decreed by the legislative body in the cases m which it belongs to it to prosecute the accusation. 
After the accusation shall be admitted, the fact shall be examined, and declared by the jurors. 
The person accused shall have the privilege of challenging 20, “without assigning any reason.” 
The jurors who declare the fact shall not be fewer than 12. 
The application of the law shall be made by the judges. 
The. process shall be public; “and the person accused cannot be denied the aid of counsel.” 
No man acquitted by a legal jury can be apprehended or accused on account of the same fact. 
For the whole kingdom there shall be one tribunal of appeal, established near the legislative body. 
A high national court, composed of members of the tribunal of appeal and high jurors, shall take cogni zançe of the crimes of ministers, and the principal agents of the executive power; and of crimes which attack the general safety of the state, when the legis lative body shall pass a decree of accusation. 
It shall not assemble but on the proclamation of the legislative body; “and at the distance of 30, 00c toises at least from the place of meeting of the legislative body.” 
The national guards do not form a military body, or an institution in the state; they are the citizens themselves called to assist the public force. 
Officers are chosen for a time, and cannot again be chöfen till after a certain interval of service as privates. 
None shall command the national guard of morethan one district, 
All the parts of the public force employed for the sasety of the state from foreign enemies are under the command of the king. 
Public contributions shall be debated and sixed every year by the legislative body, and cannot continue in force longer than the last day of the following session, if they are net expressly renewed. 
"Detailed accounts of the expense of the ministe rial departments, signed and certified by the ministers or comptrollers general, shall be printed and published at the commencement of the sessions of each legiila ture. 
“The same shali be done with the statements of the receipt of the different taxes, and all the public revenues.” 
The French nation renounces the undertaking of any war with a view of making conquests, and will never employ its forces against the liberty of any people. 
The constituting national assembly declares, " That 
the 
