Rank between the Army, Navy, and Governors. 
Army. 
Navy. 
Governors. 
General in chief 
Admiral in chief 
Commander in chief of the forces in America 
Generals of horse 
Admiral with a flag at the main top mast 
captain-general of provinces 
lieutenant generals 
vice admirals 
lieutenant generals of provinces 
major-generals 
rear admirals 
lieutenant governors and presidents 
Colonels 
post captains of 3 years 
lieutenant governors not commanding 
lieutenant colonels 
post captains 
Governors of charter colonies 
Majors 
Captains 
deputy governors 
Captains 
Lieutenants 
Established by the king, 1760 
Doubling of the ranks, 
is the placing two ranks in one, frequently used in the manœuvres of a regiment. 
ranks and Files, 
are the horizontal and vertical lines of soldiers when drawn up for service. 
ransom, a sum of money paid sor the redemp tion of a ssave, or the liberty of a prisoner of war. In our law books, ransom is also used for a sum paid for the pardon of some great offence, and to obtain the offender’s liberty. 
RANULA, a tumour under a child’s tongue, which, like a ligature, hinders it from speaking or sucking. 
ranunculus, crowfoot : A genus of the polygamia order, belonging to the polyandria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 26th order, 
Muhistliqua. 
The calyx is pentaphyllous; there are five petals, each with a melliferous pore on the inside of the heel; the seeds naked. 
species. 
There arc near 40 different species of this genus, six or eight of which claim general esteem as flowery plants for ornamenting the gardens, and a great number are common weeds in the fields, waters, and pasture ground, not having merit for garden cul ture. Of the garden kinds, the principal fort is the Asiatsc or Turkey and Persian ranunculus, which com •prises many hundred varieties of large, double, most beautiful flowers of various colours : but several other species having varieties with fine double flowers, make a good appearance in a collection, though as those of each species consist only of one colour, some white, others yellow, they are inferior to the Asiatic ranun culus, which is large, and diversisied a thousand ways in rich colours, in different varieties. However, all the garden kinds in general effect a very agreeable diverslty in assemblage in the flower compartments, c. and they being all very hardy, succeed in any open beds and bor cers, c. 
Culture. 
The Asiatic species in all its varieties will succeed in any light, rich, garden earth; but the flo rilts often prepare a particular compost for the sine varieties, consisting of good garden mould or pasture carth, sward and all, a fourth part of rotted cow dung, 
'and the like portion of sea sand; and with this they 
prepare beds four feet wide and two deep : however, in default of such compost, use beds of any good light earth of your garden; or, if necessary, it may be made light and lsch with a portion of drift sand and rotten dung, cow dung is most commonly recommended; but they will also thrive in beds of well wrought kitchen garden earth, and they often prosper well in the com mon flower borders. 
The season for planting the roots is both in autumn and spring; the autumn plantings generally slower strongest and soonest by a month at least, and are suc ceeded by the spring planting in May and June. Perform the autumnal planting in October and early part of November, but some plant towards the latter end of september in order to have a very early bloom; but those planted in that month and beginning of October often come up with rank leaves soon after, in winter, so as to require protection in hard frosts; those, hçwever, planted about the middle or latter end of October, and beginning of November, rarely shoot up strong till towards spring, and will not require so much care of cover ing during winter; and the spring planting may be per formed the end of January or beginning of February, or as soon as the weather is fettled; they will not require any trouble of covering, and will succeed the autumnal plants regularly in bloom, and will flower 
in 
good perfection. Thus by two or three different plant ings yu may obtain a succession of these beautiful flowers in constant bloom from April till the middle of June; but the autumnal plants, for the general part, not only flower ftrongest, but the roots increase more in size, and furnish the best off sets for propagation : it is, however, proper to plant both in spring and au tumn. 
Prepare for the choicer sorts four feet beds of light earth, and rake the surface smooth; then plant thc roots in rows lengthwise the beds, either by drilling them in two inches deep, and six inches distance in the row, and the rows six or eight asunder; or you may ph nt them by bedding in, or by dibble planting, the same depth and distance. 
Those designed for the borders should be planted ge 
