immediately deserted and went born to France. dumou rier continued to retreat, and on the 2 2d he was again attacked near Louvain. He now, through the medium of Colonel Mack, came to an agreement with the im perialists that his retreat should not be serioussy inter fupted. It was now fully agreed between him and the Imperialists, that while the latter took possession of Condé and Valenciennes, he should march to Paris, dissolve the convention, and place the son of the late king upon the throne. 
The rapid retreat and successive defeats of General Dumourier rendered his conduct suspicious. commis sioners were sent from the executive power for the purpose of diseovering his designs. They dissembled, and pretended to communicate to him a seheme of a coun ter revolution. He confessed his intention of dissolving the convention and the Jacobin club by force, which he said would not exist three weeks longer, and of re storing monarchy. On the report of these commise fioners the convention sent Bournonville the minister of war to supersede and arrest Dumourier, along with Camus, Blancal, La Mark, and Quinette, as commissioners.' The attempt on the part of these men was at least hazardous, to say no more of it; and the result was, that on the sirst of April Dumourier sent them prisoners to General clairfait’s headquarters at Tournay as hostages for the sasety of the royal family. He next attempted to seduce his army from their fidelity to the convention; but he speedily found that he had much mistaken the character of his troops. Upon the report that their general was to be carried as a criminal to Paris, they were seized with sudden indignation; but when they found that an attempt was making to pre vail with them to turn their arms against their country, their sentiments altered. On the 5th of April two proclamations were issued;; by General Dumourier, and the other by the prince of saxe Cobourg, declaring that their only purpose was to restore the constitution of 1789, 1790» and 1791. Prince Cobourg announ ced that the allied powers wished merely to cooperate with General Dumourier in giving to France her con stitutscnal king and the constitution she had formed for herself, declaring, on his word of honour, that he came not to the French territory for the purpose of making conquests. o11 the same day Dumourier went to the advanced guard of his own camp at Maulde. He there learned that the corps of artillery had risen upon their general, and were marching to Valenciennes; and he soon found that the whole army had determined to stand by their country. seven hundred cavalry and 800 infantry was the whole amount of those that deserted with Dumourier to the Austrians, and many of them afterwards returned. 
By the defection of Dumourier, however, the whole army of the north was dissolved, and in part disbanded, in presence of a numerous, well disciplined, and victorious enemy. The Prussians were at the same time advancing on the Rhine with an immense force, and about to commence the siege of Mentz. In the interior of the republic more serious evils if possible were arising. In the departments of La Vendée and La Loire, or the Provinces of Brittany and Poitou, immense multitudes of emigrants and other royalists had gradually assembled in the course of the winter. They processed to 
act 
in the name of Monsieur, as regent of France. 
About 
the 
middle of March they advanced against Nantz to the amount of 40, 000. In the beginning of April they defeated the republicans in two pitched battles, and possessed themselves of 50 leagues of country. They even threatened by their own efforts to shake the new republic to its foundation. On the 8th of April a congress of the combined powers assembled at Antwerp. It was attended by the prince of Orange and his two sons, with his excellency Vander spiegel, on the part of Holland; by the duke of York and Lord Auckland on the part of Great Britain; by the prince of saxe Cobourg, Counts Metterinch, staren berg, and Mercy Dargenteau, with the Prussian, spa nish, and Neapolitan envoys. It was here determined to commence active operations against France. The prince of Cobourgsa proclamation was recalled, and a scheme of conquest announced. 
Commissioners from the convention now set up the standard of the republic anew, and the seattered battalions flocked around it. General Dampierre was appointed commander, andon the 13th lie was able to resist a general attack upon his advanced posts. On the 14th, his advanced guard yielded to superior numbers, but on the 15th was victorious in a long and well fought battle. On the ' 23d the Austrians were again repulsed, and on theist of May General Dampierre was himself repulsed in an attack upon the enemy. On the 8th another engagement took place, in which the French general was killed by a cannonball. On the 23d a very determined attack was made by the allies upon the French fortified camp of Famars, which covered the town of Valenciennes. I'he French were overcome, and in the night abandoned their camp. In confeqnence of this the allies were enabled to commence the siege of Valenciennes; for Condé had been blockaded from the lst of April. 
About the same time General Custine on the Rhine made a violent but unsuccessful attack upon the Prusc sians, in consequence of which they were soon enabled to lay siege to Mentz. The Corsican General Paoli revolted at this period; and the new republic, assaulted srom without by the whole strength of Europe, was un dermined by treachery and faction within. 
while the country was in a state verging upon utter ruin, parties in the convention were gradually waxing more fierce in their animosity; and regardless of what was passing at a distance, they seemed only anxious sor the extermination of each other. In the month of March, the celebrated 
Revolutionary Tribunal 
was esta blished sor the purpose of trying crimes committed against the state; and the Girondist party, the mildness of whose administration had contributed not a little to increase the evils of their country, began to see the necessity of adopting measures of severity. But the pub lic calamities, which now rapidly followed each other in succession, were aseribed by their countrymen to their imbecility or perfidy. This gave to the party of the 
Mountain 
a fatal advantage. On the 15th of April the communes of the 48 sections of Paris presented a petition, requiring that the chiefs of the Girondists therein named should be impeached and expelled from the convention. This was followed up on the 
lit 
of May by another petition from the suburb of st Antoine. The Girondist party in the mean time impeached Marat, but he was acquitted by the jury at his trial. '1 he 
