essay being only a very accurate refining, ve refer to the article 
Essay of the Value of silver, 
Large quantities of silver are thus purified, after the operations by which that metal is obtained from its ores. This silver, being always much allayed, is to b.c. mixed with a sufficient quantity of lead to complete its purification, unless lead has beer, added in its sirst fusion from the ore, or unless it has been extracted from an ore which also contains lead; in which latter case, it is allayed naturally with a sufficient quantity, or more than .sufficient, for the refining of it. 
REFLECTION, the return or progressive motion of a moving body, occasioned by some obstacle which hindered it from pursuing its former direction. 
Circular Inßrument of Réélection, 
an instrument for measuring angles to a very great degree of accuracy. It was invented by the celebrated astronomer Mr to bias Mayer of Gottingen, principally with a view to do away the errors of the divisions of the limb; and has since been much improved by the Chevalier de Borda, and M J. H. de Magelian. This instrument is particularly applicable to the measuring of the distances of the heavenly bodies, and was used by the French in their part of the operation for determining the difference of meridians of Paris and Greenwich. For the description, rectification, and use of this instrument, see the article Navigation, and 
Mackay on the Longitude, 
vol. i. p. 44. 
Réélection of the Rays of Light, 
in catoptrics, is their return, after approaching so near the surface of bodies as to be thereby repelled or driven backwards. For the causes of reflection, see Optics, 
Index 
at 
Rays of Light, 
and 
Ref ection of Light, 
c. For the application of the doctrine of reflection to mirrors, see Optics, p. 347 — 349. see also Mirror, 
Burning giafs, 
and 
gio/s grinding 
; and for the 
coating 
or 
foliating of 
mirrors, see the article 
Foliating of loofmg flaffis, 
c. see also Telescope. 
Reflection is also used, figuratively, for an open ration of the mind, whereby it turns its view backwards sit were upon itself, and makes itself and its own open rations the object of its disquisition; and by contem piating the manner, order, and laws, which it observes in perceiving ideas, comparing them together, reasoning, cit frames new ideas of the relations discovered therein. see Metaphysics. 
REFLEX, in painting, means those places in a picture which are supposed to be illuminated by light reflected from some other body in the same piece. see paint ing, Part I. sect. 2. and 5. 
REFLUX, the backward course of water, has the same meaning as the ebbing of the sea, and is opposed to flood, flux, or the flowing of the sea. see Tides. 
REFORM means a change from worse to better, a • reestablishment or revival of former neglected discipline, ra correction of abuses therein. The term is much used in a monastic sense for the reducing an order or congregation of religious to the ancient severity of the rule from which it had gradually swerved, or even sor improving on the ancient rule and institution itself, and voluntarily making it more severe. In this sense the order of st Bernard is said to be only a reform of that of st Benedict. In this country it is applied both to politics and religion, and may innocently b.c. applied to any endeavours to change an establishment from worse 
to better. But it appears at present to have been 
chiefly made a pretence for designs which could not fairly or sasely be avowed. 
A reform in religion and in parliament (see parlia mënt) has, we know, been most loudly called for by men whose religious notions are immensely different from what lias been generally reckoned Christianity, and whose designs, as has been legally proved, went to the overthrow of all civil order. For insidious purposes like these, the word reform is a good cloak, especially if anything can be fixed upon, either in the religion or government of the state, which, with the help of exag geration and distortion, can be represented to the weak and unthinking as extremely defective and erroneous. 
The general error of these men seems to be, that ha ving picked up a set of speculative notions which flatter their own pride and the pridq of those who listen to them, they will allow nothing to the arguments of their opponents or the experience of mankind. They think so often and fo much upon their ideal reforms, that while they imagine their notions are liberal and extensive, they become contracted beyond imagination; while their judgments, of course, are warped with the most inveterate prejudices (see Prejudice.) They see, or think they see, the propriety of their schemes; but they seldom, perhaps never, reflect, that that may be true in speculation or in theory which cannot possibly be redu ced to practice. They will not take the world as it is, and allow it to profit by the wisdom and experience of ages; but they will reform it according to those ideas of right which they have learned from their own specula tions and airy theories; seldom considering what may be done, they are determined to do what they think ought to be done. Liberty of conscience, and liberty of action, have been claimed by them as the unalienable rights of man; and so we ourselves are disposed to think, them : nor have we heard that in this country they have been denied to any man, or set of men, so far as has been thought consistent with the sasety of the state, and that of the other individuals who compose it. At the same time, the very same men hesitate not to blame, with acrimony the most violent, and to the utmost of their power to restrain, the actions and opinions of those who with equal conviction, often on better grounds, and generally with more modesty, differ from them. 
Amidst that excessive ardour, too, with which they propagate their opinions, they forget the extreme danger of withdrawing the attention of that part of the community, who must earn their bread by the sweat of their blow, from their proper occupations, to the tempestuous sea of political debate, for which their education and mode of life cannot possibly have quali sied them. It requires but very little penetration, however, to be able to see, that it can be of no real service either to the individuals themselves, or to the community at large, in whatever light we look upon it. Indeed, to make those the judges of the law, and the reformers of the legislature, who have all their lives been employed in manual labour, is the extreme of folly; and yet it is what some men of considerable abilities, and from whom we had reason to expect better tliings, have more than once attempted. '1 he effect of such a mode osseduction (and it deserves no better name), when it shall become general, instead of serving the purposes of a real reform, must be to annihilate all civil order. Diffa 
