Rdwards , 
and. Edwards 
recovers a reeompensc 
ef 
equal value against Barker the sirst vouchee; who recovers the like against Morland the common vouchee, .against whom such ideal recovery in value is always ultimately awarded. 
This supposed reeompense in value is the reason why the issue in tail is held to be barred by a common recovery. For, if the reeoveree should obtain a recom pense in lands from the common vouchee (which there is a possibility in contemplation of law, though a very improbable one, of his doing), these lands would supply the place of those so recovered from him by collu •sion, and would descend to the issue in tail. The reasun will also hold with equal force as to melt remainder mien and reversioners, to whom the possibility will re main land revert, as a full recompense for the reality which they were otherwise entitled to: but it will not always hold; and therefore, as Pigott says, the judges have been even 
afiuti, 
in inventing other reasons to maintain the authority of recoveries. And, in par ticular, it hath been said, that though the estate tail is gone from the recoveree; yet it is not destroyed, but only transferred, and still subsists; and will ever con tinue to subsist (by construction of law) in the reco veror, his heirs and assigns : and as the estate tail fo continues to subsist for ever, the remainders or reversions expectant on the determination of such estate tail can never take place. 
To such awkward shifts, such subtle refinements, and such strafige reasoning, were our ancestors obliged to have recourse, in order to get the better of that stub born statute 
donis. 
The design sor which these contrivances were set on foot, was certainly laudable; the unrivetring the fetters of estates tail, which were attended with a legion of mischiefs to the commonwealth: but, while we applaud the end, we cannot but admire the means. Our modern courts of justice have indeed adopted a move manly way of treating the subject; by eonsidering common recoveries, in no other light than as the formal mode of conveyance by which tenant in tail is enabled to aliene his sands. But, since the ill consequences of fettered inheritances are now generally seen and allowed, and of course the utility and expedience of setting them at liberty are apparent, it hath often been wished that the process of this conveyance was shortened, and rendered lesa subject to niceties, by either totally repealing the statute 
de donis; 
which per haps, by reviving the old doctrine of conditional fees, might give birth to many litigations : or by vesting in every tenant in tail, of full age, the same absolute feeisimple at once, which now he may obtain whenever •he pleases, by the collusive fiction of a common recovery; though this might possibly bear hard upon those 
’ir. 
remainder or reversion, by abridging the chances they would otherwise frequently have, as no recovery can be suffered in the intervals between term and term, 
. which sometimes continue for near five months together: : lastly, by empowering the tenant in tail, to bar the estate tail by a solemn deed, to be made in term time, and enrolled in some·court 
qt. 
record; which is liable to neither of the other objections, and is warranted not only by .the usage of our American colonies, but by the precedent of the statute 21 Jac. I. C 1 9 which in the. case of; a bankrupt tenant in tail, empowers his commissioners to sell the estate at any tune, 
by 
deed indented and enrolled. And if, in so national 
a 
concern, 
the 
emoluments of 
the officers concerned in 
passing recoveries are thought to be worthy attention, those might be provided sor in the fees to be paid upon each enrollment. 
2. The force and effect of common recoveries may appear, from what has been said, to be an absolute bar not only of all estates tail, but of remaindeis and reversions expectant on the determination of such estates. so that a tenant in tail may, by this method of assurance, convey the lands held in tail to the recoverer, his heirs and assigns, absolutely free and difeharged of nil conditions and limitations in tail, and of all remainders and reversions. But, by statute 34. & 35 H. VIIL C 20. no recovery bad against tenant in tail of the king’s gift, whereof the. remainder or reversion is in the king, shall bar such estate tail, or the remainder or reversion of the crown. And by the statute 11 H. VII C 2c. no woman, after her hushandsa death, shall fusser a recovery of lands settled on her by her husband, or settled on her husband and her by any of his ancestors and by statute 14 Eliz. C 8. no tenant for life, of any sort, can suffer a recovery so a3 to bind them in remainder or reversion. For which reason, if there be tenant for life, with remainder in tail, and other remainders over, and the tenant for life is desirous to suffer a valid recovery, either he, or the tenant to the 
prœcipe 
by him made, rnust vouch the remainderman in tail, otherwise the recovery is void : but if he does vouch such remainderman, and he appears and vouches the common vouchee, it is then good; for if a man be vouched and appears, and suffers the recovery to be had it is as effectual to ‘ bar the estate tail as if he himself were the recoveree. 
In ali recoveries, it is necessary that the recoveree,. or tenant to the 
prœcipe, 
as he is usually called, be actually seized of the freehold, else the recovery is void For all actions to recover the seisin of sands must be brought against the actual tenant of the freehold, else the suit will lose its effect; since the freehold cannot be recovered of him who has it not. And, though these recoveries are in themselves fabulous and fictitious, 
yet 
it is necessary that there be 
actores jabulœ. 
properly qualified. But the nicety thought by some modern practitioners to.be requisite in conveying the legal freehold, in order to make a good tenant to the 
prœcipe, 
is removed bv the provisions of the statute 14 Geo. IL C 20. which enacts, with a retrospect and conformity to the ancient rule of law, that, though the legal freehold be veiled in lesseeq, yet those who are entitled to the next freehold estate in remainder, or reversion, may make a good tenant to the 
rrœdpe; 
and that, though the deed or sine which creates such tenant be subsequent to the judgement of recovery, yet if it be in the same term, the recovery shall be valid in law : and that though the recovery itself·do not appear to be entered, or be not regularly entered on record, yet the deed to make a tenant to tile 
prœdpe 
and declare the uses of the recovery, shall after a possession of 20 years be sufficient evidence on behalf of a purchaser for valuable consideration, that such recovery was duly suffered. 
Recover of persons drowned, or apparently dead see re am ii axiom, and the articles there referred to. 
RECREANT, Cowardly, 
fuint h earted; 
formerly a word very reproachful. see Battle.. 
RECREMEN Γ, in chemistry, feme fiiperstupus matter separated from some other that is usesul; in 
