stanee be reduced to 
d« part of 
a 
revolution, ?r two seconds and a half; and these errors or inequalities of the teeth were equally distributed round the wheel at the distance of rtine teeth from each other. Now, as the screw in ratching had continually hold of several teeth at the same time, and, these constantly changing, the abovementioned inequalities soon corrected themselves, and the teeth were reduced to a perfect equality. The piece of brass which carries the wire was how taken away, and the cutting screw was also removed, and a plain one (hereafter described) put in its place : on one end of the screw is a small brass circle, having its edge drvlded mto 60 equal parts, and numbered at every sixth division, as before mentioned. On the other end of the screw is a ratchet wheel 
C 
having 60 teeth, covered by the hollowed circle (d), which carries two clicks that catch upon the opposite sides of the ratchet when the screw is to be moved forwards. The cylinders turns on a strong steel aibor F, which pastes through and is firmly serewed to the piece Y : this piece, for greater sirmness, is aftached to the screw frame 
G 
by the braces V : a spiral groove or thread is cut on the outside of the cylinder s, which serves both for bolding the string, and also giving motion to the lever J on its centre by means of a steel tooth (n), that works between the threads of the spiral. I o the lever is attached a strong steel pin (m), on which a brass socket (r) turns : this socket passes through a slit in the piece (p), and may be tightened in any part of the slit by the singer nut (f) : this piece serves to regu late the number of revolutions of the serew for each tread of the treadle 
R. 
"T is a brass box containing a spiral spring; a strong gut is fastened and turned tnree or four times round the crrcumference of this box; the gut then passes several times round the cylinder s, and from thence down to the treadle 
R. 
Now, when the treadle is pressed down, the string pulls the cylinder s round its axis, and the clicks catching hold of the teeth on the ratchet carry the .serew round with it, till, by the tooth (n) working in the spiral groove, the lever J is brought near the wheel (d), and the cylinder stopped by the screw head X striking n the top of the lever J; at the same time the spring is wound up by the other end of the gut passing round the box T. Now, when the foot is taken off the treadle, the spring unbending itself pulls back the cylinder, the clicks leaving the ratchet and screw at rest till the piece (t) strikes on the end of the piece (p) : the number of revolutions of the screw at each tread is limited by the number of revolutions the cylinder is allowed to turn back before the stop strikes on the piece (p). 
“when the endless serew was moved round its axis with a considerable velocity, it would continue that motion a little after the cylinder s was stopped : to 
■ prevent this, the angular lever « was made; that when the lever J comes near to stop the screw X it, by a small chamfer, presses down the piece χ of the angular lever; this brings the other end of the same lever forwards, and stops the endless screw by the steel pin μ striking upon the top of it : the foot of the lever is raised again by a small spring pressing on the blace V 
“D, 
two clamps, connected by the piece «, sside 
■ one on each arm 
of the frame 
L and may be fixed at 
pleasure by the four singer screws which press. agalust steel springs to avoid spoiljng the arms : the piece (q) is made to turn without shake between two conical pointed screws (f), which are prevented from untura ing by tightening the finger nuts N. 
“The piece M is made to turn on the piece (q), byp^ the conical pointed screws (s) resting in the hollow cen ters (e). 
“As there is frequent occasion to cut divisions on inclined planes, for that purpose the piece z, in which the tracer is fixed, has a conical axis at [each end, which turn in half holes : when the tracer is set to any inclination, it may be fixed there by tightening the steel screws 6. 
Description of the Engine by which the endless screw of the Dividing Engine was cut. 
“Fig. 9. represents this engine of its full dimensions seen from one fide. 
“Fig. 8. the upper side of the same as seen from above. 
“A represents a triangular bar of steel, to which the triangular holes in the pieces B and 
C 
are accurately fitted, and may be fixed on any part of the bar by the screws 
D. 
"E is a piece of steel whereon the screw is intended to be cut; which, after being hardened and tempered, has its plvots turned in the form of two frustums of cçmes, as represented in the drawings of the dividing engine (fig. Ç.). These pivots were exactly fitted to the half holes F and T, which were kept together by the screws Z. 
“H represents a screw of untempered steel, having a pivot I, which turns in the hole K. At the other end of the screw is a hollow centre, which receives the hardened conical point of the steel pin M. when this point is sufficiently pressed against the screw, to prevent its shaking, the steel pin may be fixed by tightening the screws Y. 
“N is a cylindric nut, movable on the screw H 
5 
which, to prevent any shake, may be tightened by the screws O. This nut is connected with the saddle piece P by means of the intermediate universal joint W, through which the arbour of the screw H passes. 
A 
front view of this piece, with a section acioss the screw arbour, is represented at 
X 
This joint is connected with the nut by means of two steel ships s, which turn on pins between the cheeks T on the nut 
N. 
Thc other ends of these ships s turn in like manner on pina) 
. One axis of this joint turns in a hole in the cock 
(b), which is fixed to the saddle piece; and the other turns in a hole (d), made for that purpose in the 
same 
piece on which the cock (b) is fixed. By this means, when the screw is turned round, the faddle piece will sside uniformly along the triangular bar A. 
"K is a small triangular bar of well tempered steel, which Aides in a groove of the same form on the saddle piece P. The point of this bar or cutter is formed to the shape of the thread intended to be cut on the endless screw. when the cutter is fet to take proper hold of the intended screw, it may be fixed by tightening the screw (e), which press the two pieces of brass 
G 
upon it. 
“Having measured the circumference of the divi ding wheel, I found it would require 
a 
screw about one 
