aÿîth great force : but as to fire, light, and electricity, our experiments fail; nay, the supposition of a repulsive power among the particles of the electric fluid is incon sistent with the phenomena, as has been demonstrated under the article Electricity, sect. V and VI e ven in those fluids, air and steam, where a repulsive power most manisestly exists, it is demonstrable that the repulsion cannot be a 
primary 
quality, since it can be increased to a great degree by heat, and diminished by cold : but it is impossible that a 
primary 
quality of matter can be increased or diminished by any external circumstances whatever; for whatever property depends upon external circumstances, is not a primary but a southeast condary one. — The repulsion of electrified bodies is explained under the article Electricity : that of others is lesa subject to investigation; and the most that can be said concerning it is, that in many cafes it seems to bethe consequence of a modi;, cation of stre, and in others of electricity. 
REPUTATION means credit, honour, or the character of good; and since we are destined to live in society, is necessary and useful more or less to every human being. There is no man, except one who 13 overgrown with pride and self conceit, or whose actions are bad, but pays attention to his reputation, and wishes to possess the good opinion of his neighbours or the world. The love of reputation and of same are most powerful springs of action; but though they proceed .from the same principle, the means of attaining them, and the effects of them, are not altogether the same. 
Many means indeed serve equally to support the refutation and to increase the same, differing only in degrees; others, however, bel mg peculiarly either to the one orto the other. An honest reputation is within the reach the bulk of mankind; it is obtained by the social virtues and the constant practice of the common duties of life. This kind of reputation indeed is neither extensive nor brilliant, but it is sten the most usesul in point of happmefs. Wlt, talents, and genius, are the necessary requisites for same; but those advantages are perhaps less real in their consequences than those ariiing from a good reputation, what is of real use costs little; things rare and splendid require the greatest labour to procure, and yield perhaps a more ideal happiness. 
Same can be possessed, comparatively speaking, but •by few individuals; as it requires either very superior abilities, supported by great efforts, or very fortunate circumstances. It is constituted by the applause of mankind, or at least by that of a. single nation; whilst reputation is of much less extent, and arises from different circumstances. I hat reputation which is founded on deceit and artifice ls never solid;; the most honourable will always be found to be the most usesul. Every one may safely, and indeed ought to, aspire to the consideration and praise due to his condition and merit; burr hc who aspires to mol e, or who seeks it by dishonest means, will at length meet with contempt. 
request, in law, a supplication or petition pre ferred to a prince, or to a court of justice; begging relief in some conseionable cases where the common-law grants no immediate redress.. 
Court of Rescuests (curia requifitionum) 
was a court 
of 
equity, of the same nature with the court of chancery, but inferior to it; principally instituted for the relief of such petitioners as in conseionable cases addressed 
themselves by fnpplication to his majesty. Of this court the lord privy seal was chief judge, assisted by the masters of requests; and it had beginning about the 9 Hen. VII according to sir Julius cæfar’s tractate upon this subject : though Mr Gwyn, in lus preface to his Readings, faith it began from a commission first grant ed by king Henry VIII - This court, having affnmed great power to itself, so that it became burdensome, 
Mick. 
anno 40 and 41 
F, HIN 
the court of conr mon pleas it was adjudged upon solemn argument, that the court of requests was no court of judica ture, c. and by stat. 16 & 17 Car I. C 10. it was taken away. 
There are still courts of requests, or courts of conscience, constituted in London and other trading and populous districts for the recovery of small debts. The siist of these was established in London so early as the reign of Henry VIII by an act of their common council; which however was certainly insufficient sor that purpose, and illegal, till confirmed by statute 3 Jac. I. C 15. which has since been explained and amended by statute 14 Geo II C 10. The constitution is this: two aldermen and four commoners sit twice a week to hear ali causes of debt not exceeding the value of forty shillings; which they examine in a summary way, by the oath of the parties or other witnesses, and make fucli order therein as is consonant to equity and good conscience. 1 he time and expense of obtaining this summary redress are very inconsiderable, which make it a great benefit to trade; and thereupon diverse trading towns and other districts have obtained acts of parlia ment for establishing in them courts of conscience upon nearly the same plan as that in the city of London. 
By 25 Geo. III C 45. (which is confined to prose cutions in courts of conscience in London, Middlesex, and the borough of southwark), and by 26 Geo. III C 38. (which extends the provisions of the former act to all other courts instituted for rhe recovery of small debts), 't is enacted, that after the first day of septem ber 1786, no person who.seever, being a debtor or de fendant, and who has been or shall be committed to any gaol or prison by order of any court or commissioners authorised by any act or acts of parliament for constitu ting or regulating any court or courts for the recovery of small debts, where the debt does not exceed twenty shillings, shall be kept or continued in custody, on any pretence whatseever, more than twenty days from the commencement of the last mentioned act; or from the time of his, her, or their commitment to prison : and where the original debt does not amount to or exceed the sum of forty shillings, more than forty days from the commencement of the said act, or from the time of his, her, or their commitment as aforesaid; and all gaolers are thereby required to diseharge such persons accord ingly. And by sect. 2. if it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, that any such debtoi has money or goods which he has wilfully and fraudulently concealed;; that case the court slrall have power to en large the aforesaid times of imprisonment for debts un der twenty shsllings, to any time not exceeding thirty .days, and for debts under forty shillings, to any time not exceeding sixty days; which said ground of farther de tention shall be specified in the said commitment. And that (by sect. 3.) at the expiration of the said respecr ‘ tive times of imprisonment, every such person shall immediately 
be discharged, without paying any 
sum of 
