the Lutherans in three churches, which they have built. The magistrates and officers of thc city are all Protese tants; and it is to be remarked, that although there are about 2 2 Catholic churches, yet there are very few Catholic citizens, the magistracy not allowing the freedom of the town to be given to Catholics living there. As this city is large, .elegant, and full of magnificent houses, it has been chosen many years for the place of holding the diet, upon account of the conveniency, to many neighbouring princes and states, of sending their provi sions by land and watery without great expense. The townhouse, in the hall of which the Diet meets, is extremely magnificent. In the year 1740, however, when there was a war in Germany, the Diet met at Frankfurt on the Main, till after the death of the emperor Charles VII Provisions are very plentiful at Ratishon in time of peace. The inhabitants have a good deal of trade, the river on which it stands being navigable, and communicating with a great part of Germany. lt is 55 miles southeast of Nuremberg, 62 north of Munich, and 1 95 west of Vienna. E. Long. 1-2. 5. N. Lat. 48. 59. 
ratlines, or, as the sailors call them 
ratlins, 
those lines which make the ladder steps to go up the shrouds and puttocks, hence calied the 
ratlins of the shrouds. 
RATOLFZEL, a strong town of Germany, in suabia, near the west end of the lake Constance. It is seated on that part of it called 
Bodenfie, 
and belongs to the house of Austria, who took it from thc duke of wirtemburg, after the battle of Nordlingen. It is 12 miles west of the city of Confiance. It is defended by the impregnable caille of Hohen Dwel, on an inaccef sible hill in the middle of a plain, the rock of which is flint, fo that a few men may hold it out against an army. 
rattlesnake. see Crotalus.. 
rattlesnake Root. 
see Polygala. 
RATZE BURG, or Ra tzemburg, an ancient town of Germany, in the circle of Lower saxony, and in the duchy of Lawenburgh, with a bishop’s see and a castle. The town depends on the duchy of Lawenburg, and the cathedral church on that of Ratzburg, lt is seated on an eminence, and almost surrounded with a lake 25 miles in length and three in breadth. The Duke of Lawenburg seized and fortified it in 1689, and the king of Denmark took it in 1693; but it was dismantled, and restored in 1 700 to the Duke, who re fortified it. This town has been frequently pillaged, particularly in 
1 
552, by Francis duke of saxe Lawenburg, because the canons resused to elect his son Magnus their bishop. It lies nine miles south of Lubec. This place is noted sir its excellent beer. E. Long. 10. 58. N. Lat. 
Î3· 47· 
RAVA, a town of Great Poland, and capstal of a palatinate of the same name, with a fortified castle, where they keep state prisoners. The houses arc built of wood,, and there is a Jesuits college. It is seated in a morass covered with water, which proceeds from the ri wer Rava, with which it is surrounded. It is 45 miles south of Blosko, and 50 fouth west of Warsaw. The palatinate is bounded on the north by that of Blosko, on the east by that of Mazovia, on the south by that of sandomer, and on the west by that of Lencieza. 
RAVEL IN, in fortification, was anciently 
a flat 
bastion placed in the middle .of a curtain; but now 
a 
detached work composed only of two faces, which make a saliant angle without any flanks, and raised before the counterscarp of the place. 8ee fortinca tion. 
RAVEN, in ornithology. see Corvus. 
sea RAKEN, 
or 
corvo marino 
of Kongo in Africa, in 
ichthyology, is about six feet long, and big in proportion; but the most singular circumstance appertaining to this creature is the stone found in its head, to which the natives ascribe some medicinal virtues, and the delicate taste of its hard roe, which is still much admired, when dried in the sun, and becomes r.s hard as a stone. 
ravenglas, a town of Cumberland in Eng iand, situated between the rivers Irt and Esk, which, with the sea, encompass three parts of it. It is a well built place, and has a good road for shipping, which brings it some trade. E. Long. o. y. N. Lat. 54. 20. 
RAVENNA (anc. geog.), a noble city of Gallia cis padana; a colony of Thessalians, on the Adriatic, in wash es or a boggy situation, which proved a natural security to it. The houses were all of wood, the communication by bridges and boats, and the town kept sweet and clean by the tides carrying away the mud and soil, (strabo). Anciently it had a port at the mouth of the Bedesis; Augustus added a new port, capacious to hold a fleet, for the security of the Adriatic, between which and the city lay the Via Cæfaris. In the lower age it was the seat of the Ostrogoths for 72 years; but being recovered by Narses, justinian’s general, it became the residence of the exarchs, magistrates sent by the emperor from Constantinople, for 175 years, when it was taken by the Longobards. It is still called 
Ravenna, 
capital of Romania. The seat of the western or Roman Empire was by Honorius translated to Ravenna about the year 404, and hence the country in which it stood was called 
Romania, 
in the pope’s territory. It had a very flourishing trade till the sea withdrew two miles from it, which has been a great detriment. The fortifica tions are of little importance, and the citadel is gone to ruin. It is now most remarkable for the excellent wine produced in its neighbourhood. The mausoleum of Theodoric is still to be seen, remarkable for being covered by a single stone 28 feet in diameter and 15 thick. It was at Ravenna that the duke of Nemours fell, after having gained a most decisive victory over thee, confederate army, in 1511. see France, n" 129, and Modern Universal History, vol. XX p. 324. c. 
ravensburg, a county of Germany, in west phalia, bounded on the north by the bishoprics of Osuaburg and Minden, on the east by Lemgow, on the south by the bishopric of Paderborn, and on the west by that of Munster. It belongs to the king of. Prussia, and has its name from the castle of ravenf burg. 
Ravensburg, a free and impenal town of Germany, in Algow, in the circle of' suabia. It is well built, and the public structures are handsome. The inhabitants are partly Protestants and partly Papists. 
It is seated on the river Chenss, in E. Long. 9. 46. N. Lat. 47. 44. 
RAVET, an insect shaped like a may bug, or cock chassel, (fee scarabæus), with which the island of Guadaloupe is much pestered. It has a stinking smell, preys upon paper, books, and furniture, and whatever 
