of which there are large 
ruins 
remaining It had 
also 
a’ castle 
built by king Henry I. but it was afterwards le velled with the ground. It is a corporation, enjoys several privileges, and sends two members to parliament. The two navigable rivers render it a 
fit 
place for trade. 
W. 
Long. ί. ο. N. Lat. 5, 1. 25. 
'readings, or 
Various Readings, 
in criticism, are the different manner of reading the texts of authors isi ancient manuscripts, where a diversity has arisen from the corruption of time,, or the ignorance of ccpyists. 
Ä 
great part of the business of critics lies in fettling the' readings by confronting the various readings of the several manuscripts, and considering the agreement of the words and sense. 
Readings 
are aiso used for a sort of commentary or glqfs on. a law, text, passage, or the like, to show the sense an author takes it in, and the application he con çeives to be made of it, 
RE aggravation, in the Romish ecclesiasti çal law, the last monitory, published after three admo nitions, and bespre the last excommunication. Beiöre they proceed to fulminate the last excommunication, they psiblish an aggravation, and a re aggravation. Fevret observes, that in France the minister is not allowed to çome to re aggravation, without the spermiffion of the bishop or official, as well as that of the lay judgei see Excommunication. 
REAL (Cæfar VI chard de st), a polite French writer, son of a counsellor to the senate of Chamberry su savoy. He came young to France, distinguished himself at Paris by several ingenious productions, and resided there a long time without title or dignity, intent upoq literary pursuits. He died at Chamberry in 1(392, advanced in years, though not in circumstances. île was a man of great parts and penetration, a lover of the seiences, and particularly fond of history. A ■complete edition of his works was printed at Paris, III 
3 
vols 4î0, 1745, and another in 6 vols l2mo. 
Real Presence. 
see Tran substantiation. 
REALGAR. see Chemistry, n 1279. e realists, a sect of seshodl philosophers formed 
jya opposition to the nominalists. Under the Realists are included the scotists, Thomists, and all except jng the followers of Ocham. Their distingnishing te îièt is, that universals are realities, and have an actual «xiftençe out of an idea or imagination; or, as they express it in the. schools, a 
parte rei; 
whereas the rsominalists contend, that they exist only in the mind, and are only ideas, or manners of conceiving things. — Dr Odo, or Cudard, a native of Orleans, afterwards abbot of st Martin de Tournay, was the chief of the sect of the realists. He wrote three books of dialectics, where, on the principles of'boethius and the an .cients, he maintained that the object of that art is f things, not words; wheiice the sect took its rise and jiame. 
REALITY, in the sehools, a diminutive of 
res, 
. thing, ” f rst used by the scotists, to dénote a thing which may exist of itself; or which has a full and abso li.te being of itself, and is not considered as a part of 
any other. 
REALM a country which gives its head or.gover nor. the denomination of 
a king. 
RE animation means the reviving or restoring i to life 
those wlio are apparently dead. sudden death is 
dreaded 
by every human being, and it 
rs 
one 
‘ef 
those 
evils against which the Church of 
England 
prays'in her Litany. Accidents, however, cannot always bfe 
prevented 
; but, after they have happened, it is often possible to prevent their effects. This by the establishment 
of 
what with great propriety lias been called 
the 
Humane society, 
has been abundantly proved : for, in thc course of 12 years immediately after their institution, they were the means of fa ving the lives of 850 persons, who otherwise would in all human probability have been lost to the community. since that period, they have saved many more; and various persons, even in the most distant parts of the kingdom, by following their directions, have done the fame' To preserve one human being from premature death, we must consider as of the utmost consequence both as citizens ans Christians; how much more, the preservation of thou sands. It appears from the writings of Doctors Mead, winssow, Bruhier, Fothergill,. Haller, Lecat, Tissot, Van Engelen, Gummer, and others, that they had prepared the way for institutions similar to the Humane society : for in their works they have elucidated the principles on which they go, and furnished directions for the practice they favour.' see Death, 
Premature Interment, 
and Drowning. 
REAR, a term frequently used in composition,. to denote something behind, or backwards, in respect 
of 
another; in opposition to 
van. 
Rear of an Army, 
fignssies, in general, the hindermost part of an army, battalion, regiment, or squadron 5 also the ground behind either. 
sstrf.ar guard, 
is that body of an array which marches after the main body; for the march of an army is always composed of an advance guard, a main body, · and a rearguard;; sirst and last commanded by a general. The old grand guards of the Gamp always form the rearguard of the army, and are to see that everything come safe to the new camp. 
Rear Half files, 
are the three hindmost ranks of the battalion, when it is drawn up six deep 
rear line, 
of an army encamped, is always I2OQ feet at least from the centre line; both of which run par. Ilcl to the front line, as also to the reserve. 
R ear rank, 
is the last rank of a battalion, when drawn up, and gener lly 16 or 18 feet from the centre line when drawn in open order. 
reason, a faculty or power of the mind, where by it distinguishes good from evil, truth from falsehood. see Metaphysics. 
reasoning, ratiocination, the exercise of that faculty of the mind called 
reajon; 
or it is an act or operation of the mind, deducing some unknown pro position from other previous ones that are evident and known. see Logic, Part III 
REAUMUR (Rene Antoine Ferchault, sieur de), a person distinguished for his laborious researches into natural knowledge, was born at Rochelle in 1683, of 
a 
family belonging to the law. After having sinished his early studies in the place of his birth, he began a course ' of philosophy at Poitiers, and of civil law at Bourges; but soon relinquished the latter, to apply himself, according ta his taste, to mathematics, physics, and natu ral history. Being come to Paris, he was received into thé Academy of sciences in 1708. From that hour he 
wàs wholly employed in. 
natural history, to which his.in 
