tented myself with opening its mouth, and slightly inspecting jt. 
"You may imagine, that a toad, generally detested, (although one of the most inoffensive of all animals), so much taken notice of and befriended, excited the curiosity of all comers to the house, who ali desired to see it fed; so that even ladies so far conquered the hor rors instilled into them by nurses, as to desire to see it. This produced innumerable and improbable reports, making it as large as the crown of a hat, cc.” 
The following are answers from the same gentleman to some queries proposed by Mr Pennant. 
"First, 
I cannot say how long my father had been acquainted with the toad before I knew it; but when I sirst was acquainted with it, he used to mention it as the old toad i’ve known so many years; I can answer for 36 years. 
"secondly, 
No toads that I ever saw appeared in the winter season. The old toad made its appearance as soon as the warm weather came, and I always con cluded it retired to some dry bank to repose till the spring. when we new lay’d the steps, I had two holes made in every third step, with a hollow of more than a yard long for it, in which I imagine it slept, as it came from thence at its sirst appearance. 
Thirdly, 
It was seldom provoked: neither that toad, nor the multitudes I have seen tormented with great cruelty, ever showed the least desire of revenge, by spitting or emitting any juice from their pimples. — sometimes, upon taking it up, it would let out a great quantity of clear water, which, as I have often seen it do the same upon the steps when quite quiet, was cer tainly its urine, and no more than a natural evacuation. 
Fourthly, 
A toad has no particular enmity sor the spider; he used to eat five or six with his millepedes (which I take to be its chief food) that I generally provided for it before I found out that flesh maggots, by their continual motion, was the most tempting bait; 
but, when offered, it eat blowing flies and humble bees that come from the rat tailed maggot in gutters, or in short any insect that moved. I imagine, if a bee was to be put before a toad, it would certainly eat it to its cost; but as bees are seldom stirring at the same time that toads are, they can seldom come in their way, as they seldom appear after snn rising or before sunset. In the heat of the day they will come to the mouth of their hole, I believe, for air. I once from my parlour window observed a large toad I had in the bank of a bowling green, about 12 at noon, a very hot day, very busy and active upon the grass; so uncommon an ap pearance made me go out to see what it was, when I found an innumerable swarm of winged ants had drop ped round his hole, which temptation was as irre sistible as a turtle would be to a luxurious alderman. 
"Fsthly, 
whether our toad ever propagated its species, I knçw not; rather think not, as it always ap peared well, and not lessened in bulk, which it must have done, I should think, if it had diseharged so large a quantity of spawn as toads generally do. The females that are to propagate in the spring, I imagine, instead of retiring to dry holes, go into the bottom of ponds, and lie torpid among the weeds : for to my great sur prise, in the middle of the winter, having for amuse ment put a long pole into my pond, and twisted it till it had gathered a large volume of weed, on taking it 
off 
I found many toads; and having cut some asunder with my knife, by accident, to get off the weed, found them full of spawn not thoroughly formed. I am not positive, but think there were a few males in March; I know there are 30 males b) to one female, 12 or 14 of whom I have seen clinging round a female : I have often disengaged her, and put her to a solitary male, to see with what eagerness he would seize her. They impregnate the spawn as it is drawn c) out in long strings, like 
a 
necklace, many yards long, not in 
a 
large quantity of jelly, like frogs spawn. 
b) 
Mr John Hunter has assured me, that during his residence at Belleisle, he dissected some hundreds of toads, yet never met with a single female among them. 
ci was incredulous as to the 
obstetrical 
offices of the male toad; but since the end is so well accounted for, and the fact established by such good authority, belief must take place. 
Mr Demours, in the Memoirs of the French Academy, as transiated by Dr Templeman, vol. i. p. 371, has been very particular in respect to the male toad as acting the part of an 
accoucheur : 
His account is curious, and claims a place here. 
"In the evening of one of the long days in summer, Mr Demours, being in the king’s garden, perceived two toads 
coupled together 
at the edge of an hole, which was formed in part by a great stone at the top. 
“Curiosity drew him to see what was the occasion of the motlons he observed, when, two facts equally new sur yrised him. The 
strst 
was the extreme difficulty the female had in laying her eggs, insomuch that she did not seem capable of being delivered of them without some assistance. The 
second 
was, that the male was mounted on the back of the female, and exerted all his strength with his hinder feet in puffing out the eggs, whilst his forefeet embraced her breast. 
“In order to apprehend the manner of his working in the delivery the female, the reader must observe, that the paws of these animals, as well those of the forefeet as of the hinder, are divided into several toes, which can perform the office of fingers. 
"It must he remarked likewise, that the eggs of this species of toads are included each in a membranous coat that is very firm, in which? is contained the embryo; and that these eggs, which are oblong and about two lines in length, being fastened one to another by a short but very strong cord, form a kind of chaplet, the beads of which are distant from each other about the half of their length, lt is by drawing this cord with his paw that the male pcrforms the function of a midwife, and acquits himself in it with a dexterity that one would not expect from so Jumpish an animal. 
"The presence of the observer did not a little discompose the male : sor some time he stopped short, and threw 
