but st differs from that bird in many particulars, espe cially in wanting the callosity on the sternum, and spars on the wing. avith these last the common ostrich is known to defend itself : in defect of them, the one here treated of uses the feet with such address as to become at once a furious and dangerous antagonist. The fe male calls its young ones together with a kind of whii 'tling note somewhat similar to that of a man: when young it is very tame, frequently following the sirst creature it meets with. The flesh of this bird is said to be very unpalatable. It is found in various parts of south America, from Patagonia to Guiana, and is known by the name of 
Choique. 
"ave are happy to be able to present our readers with an accurate drawing of the bird. see Plate CCCCXXXVII. 
RHEEDIA, in botany: A genus of the monogynia order, · belonging to the polyandria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking with those of which the order is doubtful. I he corolla is tetrapetalous; there is no calyx; and the fruit is a trispermous berry. 
RHEGIUM (anc. geog.), so very ancient a city as to be supposed to take its name from the violent burst ing of the coast of Italy from sicily; thought to have been formerly conjoined (Mela, Virgil). A city of the Bruttii, a colony of Chalcidians from Euhœa: a strong barrier opposed to sicily (strabo); mentioned by Luke; surnamed 
Julium 
(Ptolemy), from afresh supply of inhabitants sent thither by Augustus, after driving sextus Pompeius out of sicily (strabo); and thus was in part a colony, retaining still the right of a municipium (Inscription). The city is now called 
Reggio, 
in the Farther Calabria. 
RHE 1 Ms, a city of France in Champagne, and capital of Rhemois. It is one of the most ancient, celebrated, and largest places in the kingdom, had an archbishop’s see, whose archbishop was duke and peer of. France. It is about four miles in circumference, and contains several sine squares, well built houses, and magnificent churches. It had a mint, an university, and sive abbeys, the most famous of which was that of st Remy. There are also several triumphal arches and other monuments of the Romans. It is seated on the river Velie, on a plain surrounded by hills, which pro duce excellent wine. E. Long. 4. 8. N. Lat. 49. 14. 
rhenish wine, that produced on the hills about Rheims. This wine is much used in medicine as a sohent of mon, for which it is well calculated on account of its acidity. Dr Percival observes, that it is the best solvent of the Peruvian bark; in which, how ever, he thinks its acidity has no share, because an ad dition of vinegar to water does not augment its solvent power. 
rhetores, amongst the Athenians, were ten in number, elected by lot to plead public causes in the senate house or assembly. For every cause in which they were retained, they received a drachm out of the public money. They were sometimes called and their see ™ συν^ο^ικον. No man was admitted to this office bciore northeast was q o years of age, though others say 30. Valour in war, piety to their parents, prudence in their affairs, frugality, and temperance, were necessary qualifications for this office, and every candi date underwent an examination concerning these virtues previous to the election. The orators at Rome were not unlike the Athenian rhetores. see Orator. 

- rhetorians, a sect of heretics in Egypt, so denominated from Rhetorius their leader. The di stinguishlng tenets of this heresiarch, as represented by Philastrius, was, that he approved of all the here sies before him, and taught that they were all in the right τ 
RHETORIC, the art of speaking copioussy on any subject, with all the advantages of beauty and force. see Oratory. 
RHEUM, a thin serous humour, occasionally oozing out of the glands about the mouth and threat. 
Rheum, 
Rhubarb: 
A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the enrteandria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 12th order, 
holora ceœ. 
There is no calyx; the corolla is sexsid and per siftent; and there is one triquetrous seed. There are sive species, viz. 1. The rhaponticum, or common rhu barb, hath a large, thick, fleshy, branching, deeply ffriking root, yellowish within; crowned by very large, roundish, heart shaped smooth leaves, on thick, ssightly surrowed footstalks: : an upright strong stem, two or three feet high, adorned with leaves singly, and terminated by thick close spikes of white flowers. It grows » in Thrace and scythia, but has been long in the English gardens. Its root affords a gentle purge. It is however of inferior quality to some of the following sorts; but the plant being astringent, its young stalks in spring, being cut and peeled, are ilfed for tarts. 
2. The palmatum, palmated leaved true Chinese rhubarb, hath a thick fleshy root, yellow within; crowned with very large palmated leaves, being deeply divided into acuminated segments, expanded like an open hand; upright stems, sive or six feet high or more, terminated by large spskes of flowers *. This is now pro 
ved to be the true foreign rhubarb, the purgative qua lity of which is well known. 3. The compactum, or Tartarian rhubarb, hath a large, fleshy, branched root, yellow within; crowned by very large, heart shaped somewhat lobated, sharply indented, smooth leaves, and an upright large stem, five or six feet high, garnished with leaves singly, and branching above; having all the branches terminated by nodding panicles of white flowers. This has been supposed to be the true rhubarb; which, however, though of superior quality to some sorts, is accounted inferior to the rheum palmatum. 4. The undulatum, undulated, or waved leaved Chinese rhubarb, hath a thick, branchy, deep striking root, yellow within; crowned with large, oblong, undulate, somewhat hairy leaves, having equal footstalks, and an upright firm stem, four feet high; garnished with leaves singly, and terminated by long loose spikes of white flowers, 5. The Arabian ribes, or currant rhu barb of Mount Libanus, hath a thick fieshy root, very broad leaves, full of granulated protuberances, and with equal soot stalks, and upright sirm stems, three or four feet high, terminated by spikes of flowers, succeeded by berry nke seeds, being surrounded by a purple pulp All these plants are perennial in root, and the leaves and stalks are annual. The roots being thick, fleihy, gene rally divided, strike deep into the ground; of a browrt ish colour without and yellow within : the leaves rise in the spring, generally come up in a large head folded 
