on his journey, the mayor of that city hearing that her majesty was sending a messenger into Ireland, and he being a churchman, waited on the Doctor, who in dis course with the mayor taketh out of a cloak bag a leather box, saying unto him, 
Hire is a commission that stall last the Heretics of Ireland, 
calling the Protestants by that title. The good woman of the house being well affected to the Protestant religion, and also having 
a 
brother named 
John Edmonds 
of the same, then a citizen in Dublin, was much troubled at the doctor’s words; but watching her convenient time while the mayor took his leave, and the Doctor complimented him down the stairs, she opens the box, takes the commission out, and places in lieu thereof a sheet of' paper with a pack of cards wrapped up therein, the knave of clubs being faced uppermost. The Doctor coming up to bis chamber, suspecting nothing of what had been done, put up the box as formerly. The next day going to the waterside, wind and weather serving him, he sails towards Ireland, and landed on the 7th of oc tober 1558 at Dublin. Then coming to the castle, the Lord fitz avalters being lord deputy, sent for him to come before him and the privy-council; who, coming in, after he had made a speech relating upon what account he came over, he presents the box unto the lord deputy; who causing it to be opened, that the .secretary might read the commission, there was nothing 
save a pack of cards with the knave of clubs uppcr most; which not only startlcd the lord deputy and council, but the Doctor, who assured them he had a commission, but knew not how it was gone. Then the lord deputy made answer : Let us have another commission, and we will shuffle the cards in the meanwhile. The Doctor being troubled in his mind, went away, and returned into England, and coming to the court obtained another commission;; staying for a wind on the waterside, news came to him that the queen was dead : and thus God preserved the Protestants of Ireland.” Queen Elizabeth was so delighted with this story, which was related to her by lord fitz walter on his return to England, that she sent for Elizabeth Edmonds, whose hushand’s name was 
Matterjhad, 
and gave her a pension of 40 1. during her life. 
In scotland, the seeds of reformation were very early sown, by several noblemen who had resided in Germany during the religious disputes there. But sor many years it was suppreffed by the power of the pope, seconded by inhuman laws and barbarous executions. The most eminent opposer of the Papal jurisdiction was John Knox, a disciple of Calvin, a man of great zeal and invincible fortitude. On ali occasions he raised the drooping spi rits of the reformers, and encouraged them to go on with their work notwithstanding the opposition and treachery of the queen regent; till at last, in 1561, by the assistance of an English army sent by Elizabeth, po pery was in a manner totally extirpated throughout the kingdom. From this period the form of doctrine, wor ihip, and discipline established by Calvin at Geneva, has had the ascendancy in scotland. But for an account of the difficulties which the scottish reformers had to struggle with, and the manner ia which these were overcome, c. see scotlanb. 
For further information on the subject of the reformation in general, we refer our readers to the works of Burnet and Brandt, to beausobre’s 
Histoire de la 
Reformation dans vempire, et les Etats de la 
Confeffon 
d’augstourg depuis 
1517 — 153°’ ’n 4 v0 ’a v > Berlin 1785, and mosheim’s Ecclesiastical History.. see also sleidan 
De statu Religionis 
fÿ 
reipub/icœ Carolo V; Cæfaris Commentarii; 
and Father paul’s History of the Council of Trent. 
REFRACTION, in general, is the deviation of a moving body from its direct course, occasioned by the different density of the medium in which it moves; or it is a change of direction occasioned by a body’s falling obliquely out of one medium into another. The word is chiefly made use of with regard to the rays of light. see Optics 
(Index) 
at 
Refraction. 
REFRANGTBILITY 
f Eight, the disposition of rays to be refracted. · The term is chiefly applied to the dispolition of rays to produce different colours, ac eording to their different degrees of resrangibility. see Chromatics and Optics 
paffm. 
REFRIGERATIVE, in medicspe, a remedy which resreshes the inward parts by cooling them; as clysters, ptisans, c. 
REFRIGERATORY, in cliemistry, a vessel filled with cold water, through which the worm passes in distillations;; use of which is to condense the vapours as they pass through the worm. 
Cities of REFUGE, were places provided as 
afy la, 
for such as against their will should happen to kill a man. Of these cities there were three on each side Jordan: on this side were Kedesh of Naphtali, Hebron, and schechem; beyond Jordan were Bezer, Golan, ans Ramoth gilead, when any of the Hebrews, or strangers that dwelled in their country, happened to spill the blood of a man, they might retire thither to be out of the reach of the violent attempts of the relations of the deceased, and to prepare for their defence and justisica tion before the judges. Themanssayer underwent two, trials : sirst before the judges of the city of refuge t which he had fled; and secondly before the judges of his own city. If found guilty, he was put to death with all the severity of the law. If he was acquitted, he was not immediately set at liberty; .but, to inspire a degree of horror against even involuntary homicide, he was reconducted to the place of refuge, and obliged to continue there in a sort of banishment till the death of the high priest. If, before this time, he ventured out, the revenger of blood might freely kill him; but after the high priest’s death he was at liberty to 
go 
where he pleased without molestation. It was necessary that' the pel son. who fled to any of the chies of refuge should understand some trade or calling, that: he might not be burdensome to the inhabitants. The cities of refuge were required to be well supplied' with water and necessary provisions. They were also to be of easy access, to have good roads leading to them,, with commodious bridges where there was occasion... The width of the roads was to be 32 cubits or 48 feet at leash It was further required, that at all cioss ways directiqn pofts should be erected, with an inscription: pointing cut the road to the cities of refuge. The 15th of Adar,, which answers to our February moonr was appointed for the city magistrates to see that the roads were in good condition. No person in any of these cities was allowed to make weapons, left the relations of the deceased should be furnished with the means of gratifying their revenge. Deut. XIX 3. IV 41. 43.;;. Josh. XX 7. Three other cities of refuge were conditionally 
promised, but never granted. see As y 
L u m. 
