plans 
readily : he 
should be the best mounted of the whole, in cafe the enemy happen to scatter the escorte, that he may save his works and ideas. see WAR. 
RECORD, an authentic testimony in writing, con tained in rolls of parchment, and preserved in a court of record. see Court. 
Trial by Record, 
a species of trial which is used only in one particular instance: and thetis where a matter of record is pleaded in.any action, as a sine, a judgement, or the like; and the opposite party pleads, 
nul tiel record, 
that these lis no such matter of record existing.. Upon this, issue is tendered and joined in the following form, “and this he prays may be inquired of by the record, and the other doth the like and hereupon the party pleading the record has a day given him to bring it in, and proclamation is made in court for him to " bring forth the record by him in pleading alleged, or else he shall be condemned and, on his failure, his antagonist shall have judgement to recover. The trial, therefore, of this issue, is merely by the record : for, as sir Edward Coke observes, a record or enrolment is a monument of so high a nature, and itn porteth in itself such absolute verity, that if st be pleaded that there is no such record, it shall not receive any trial by witness, jury, or otherwise, but only by itself. Thus titles of nobility, as whether earl or not earl, ba ron or not baron, shall be tried by the king’s writ or patent only, which is matter of record. Also in cafe of an alien, whether alien friend or enemy, shall be tried by the league or treaty between his sovereign and ours; for every league or treaty is of record. And also, whether a manor be held in ancient demesne or not, shall be tried by the record of domesday in. the king’s exchequer. 
RECORDER, a person whom the mayor and other magistrates of a city or corporation associate to them, for their better direction in matters of justice and proceedings in law; on which account this person is generally a counsellor, or other person well skilled in the law. 
The recorder of London is chosen by the lord mayor and aldermen; and as he is held to be the mouth of the city, delivers the judgement of the courts there in, and records and certifies the city customs. see London, n°38. 
RECOVERY, or 
Common Recovery, 
in English law, a species of assurance by matter of record; concerning the original of which it must be remarked, that com mon recoveries were invented by the ecelesiastics to elude the statutes of mortmain (see Tail); and afterwards encouraged by the sinesse of the courts of law in 
1 
2 Edward IV in order to put an end to all fettered iu heritances, and bar not only estates tail, but also all re mainders and reversions expectant thereon, we have here, therefore, only to consider, sirst, the 
nature 
of a common recovery; apd, secondly, its 
force 
and 
effect. 
I. A common recovery is a fuit or action, either ac tual or fictitious; and in it the lands are recovered against the tenant of the freehold; which recovery, being a supposed abjudication of the right, binds all persons, and vests a free and absolute fee simple in the recoverer. To explain this as clearly and concisely as possible, let us, in the sirst place, suppose David Edwards to be tenant of the freehold, and desirous to suffer a 
common recovery, in order to bar, ‘alj entails, 
remainders, 
and reversions, and to convey the same in 
fee simple, 
to Francis Golding. To effect this, Golding is to bring an action against him for the lands; and he accordingly sues out a writ called a 
prœcipe quod reddat, 
because these were its initial or most operative words when the law proceedings were in Latin. In this writ the demand ant Golding alleges, that the defendant Edwards (here called the tenant) has no legal title to the land; but that he came into possession of it after one Hugh Hunt had turned the demandant out of it. The subsequent proceedings are made up into a record or recovery roll, in which the writ and complaint of the demandant are sirst recited : whereupon the tenant appears, and calls upon one Jacob Morland, who is supposed, at the ori ginal purchase, to have warranted the title to the te riant; and thereupon he prays, that the said Jacob Morland may be called in to defend the title which he so warranted. This is called the 
voucher, 
<( vocatio, ” or calling of Jacob Morland to warranty; and Morland is calied the 
vouchee. 
Upon this Jacob Morland, the vouchee, appears, is impleaded, and. defends the title, whereupon Golding the demandant desires leave of thc court to imparl, or confer with the vouchee in private; which is (as usual) allowed him. And soon afterwards the demandant Goldiiig returns to court; but Morland the vouchee disappears, or makes default, whereupon judgement is given for the demandant Golding, now calk ed the 
recaverer, 
to recover the lands in question against the tenant Edwards, who is now the recovered and. Edwards has judgement to recover of Jacob Morland lands of equal value, in recompense for the lands so warranted by him, and now lost by his default; which is agreeable to the doctrine of warranty mentioned in the preceding chapter. This is called the 
recompeofe, 
or 
recovery in value. 
But Jacob Morland having no lands of his own, 'being usually the crier of thecourf, who, from being frequently thus vouched, is called the 
common vouchee, 
it is plain that Edwards has only 
a 
nominal 'recompense for the lands so recovered against him by Golding; which lands are now absolutely vest ed in the said recoverer by judgement of law, and feilin thereof is delivered by the sheriff of the county. so that this colluiive recovery operates merely in the nature of a conveyance in fee simple, from Edwards the tenant in tail to Golding the purchaser. 
The recovery here described, is with a single vouch er only; 'but sometimes it is with a double, treble, or farther voucher, as the exigency of the case may require. And indeed it is now usual always to have a recovery with double voucher at the least : by sirst conveymg an estate of freehold to any indifferent person, against whom the 
preedpe 
is brought; and then he vouches the tenant in tail, who vouches over the common vouchee. For, if a recovery be had immediately against tenant in tail, it bars only such estate in the premises of 
which 
he 13 then actually seized; whereas if the recovery be had against another person, and the tenant in tail be vouched, it bars every latent right and interest which he may have in the' lands recovered. If Edwards therefore be tenant of the freehold in possession, and John Barker be tenant in tail in remainder, here Edwards doth sirst vouch Barker, and then Barker vouches Jacob Morland the common vouchee; who is always the last person vouched, and always makes default; whereby the de 
maudant Golding recovers the land against 
the tenant 
