Born , however, has not this property; feme of them sell ing very cheap, while others are extremely dear. 
some writers are of opinion, that the rhinoceros is the unicorn of holy writ and of the ancients, and that the oryx or Indian ass of Aristotie, who says it has but one horn, was the same, his informers comparing the clutnsy shape of the rhinoceros to that of the ass. — It was also the 
bos unicornis 
and 
fera monoceros 
of Pliny, both of which were of India and in his account of the monoceros he exactly describes the great black horn and hog like tail. The unicorn of scripture is considered as having all the properties of the rhinoceros, as rage, untameableness, great swiftness, and vast strength. This opinion is most ably supported by Mr Bruce. " The derivation of the Hebrew word 
reem 
(says he), which in our version is translated 
unicorn, 
both in the Hebrew and the Ethiopic, seems to be from ereôfnefs, or handing straight. This is certainly no particular quality in the animal itself, who is not more or even so much erect as many other quadrupeds, sor in its knees it is rather crooked; but it is from the circumstance and manner in which itshorn is placed. The horns of all other animals are inclined to some degree of parallelism with his nose or of frontis. '1 he horn of the rhinoceros is erect and perpendicular to this bone, on which it stands at right angles, thereby possessing a greater purchase or power, as a lever, than an horn could possibly have in any other position. The situation of the horn is very happily alluded to in scripture; ‘ My horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn.’ And the horn here alluded to is not wholly figurative, but was really an ornament worn by great men in the days of victory, preferment, or rejoicing, when they were anointed with new, sweet, or fresh oil; a circumstance which David joins with that of erecting the horn. 
"some authors, for what reason I know not, have made the reem, or unicorn, to be of the deer or antelope kind; that is, of a genus whose very character is fear and weakness, directly opposite to the qualities by which the reem is described in scripture : besides, it is plain that the reem is not of the class of clean quadrupeds;; a late modern traveller very wllimsically takes him for the leviathan, which certainly was a sish. Balaam, a priest of Midian, and so in the neighbourhood of the haunts of the rhinoceros, and intimately connected with Ethiopia, (for they themselves were shepherds of that country), in a transport, from contemplating the strength of Israel, whom he was brought to curse, says, they had, as it were, the strength of the reem. Job makes frequent allusion 
to 
his great strength, ferocity, and indocility. He asks, 'Will the reem be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib ?’ that is, Will lie willingly come into thy stable, and eat at thy manger? And again, ‘ Canst thou bind the reem with a band in the furrow; and will lie harrow the valleys sor thee ?’ — In other words, Canst thou make him go to the plough or harrows? 
"The rhinoceros, in Geez, is called 
A rave Harich, 
and in the Amharic 
Auraris; 
both which names signisy ‘ the large wild beast with the horn.’ This would seem as if applied to the species with one horn. On the other hand, in the country of the shangalla and in Nubia he is called 
Girnamgim, 
or ‘ horn upon horn; ’ and this would seem to denote that he had two. The Ethiopic text renders the word 
reem, 
‘ Arwe harich and this the septuagint tianssates 
monoceros, 
or 
unicorn. 
The principal reason of transiating the word 
unicorn 
rather than 
rhinoceros, 
is from?. prejudice that he must have had but one horn. But this is by no means so well founded as to be admitted the only argument for establishing 
the 
existence of an animal, which never has appeared after the search of so many ages. scripture speaks of the horns of the unicorn; fo that even from this circumstance the reem may be the rhinoceros, as the Asiatic, and part of the African rhinoceros, may be the unicorn.” 
The rhinoceros bicornis was long known in Europe merely by the double horns which were preserved in va rious cabinets; and its existence, though now past all doubt, has been frequently questioned. Dr sparman, in his voyage to the Cape of Good Hope, killed two of these animals, which he dissected, and very minutely describes. The horns, lie says, in the live animal are so mobile and looie, that wlien it walks carelessly along, one may see them waggle about, and hear them clash and clatter against each other. In the Phil. Trans. sor 1793, we have a description of the double horned rhinoceros of sumatra, by Mr Bell, surgeon in the service of the East-india Company at Bencoolen; and this account, though it differs considerably from that of sparman in some particulars, we shall insert here. “The animal (says Mr Bell) herein described was shot with a leaden ball from a musket about ten miles from Fort Marlborough. 
I saw it the day after; it was then not in the least pu trid, and I put it into the position from which the accompanying drawing was made. (see Plate ccccxxxvm.) It was a male; the height at the shoulder was 4 feet 4 inches; at the sacrum nearly the same; from the tip of the nose to the end of the tail eight feet five inches. — From the appearance of its teeth and bones it was but young, and probably not near its full size. The shape of the animal was much like that of the hog. The ge neral colour was a brownish ash; under the belly, between the legs and folds of the skin, a dirty ssesh co lour. The head much resembled that of the Angle horned rhinoceros; the eyes were small, of a brown colour j the 
membrana nictitans 
thick and strong : the skin surrounding the eyes was wrinkled; the nostrils were wide;, the upper lip was pointed, and hanging over the under. 
"There were six 
molares, 
or grinders, on each side of the upper and lower jaw, becoming gradually larger backward, particularly in the upper; two teeth in the front of each jaw; the tongue was quite smooth; the ears were small and pointed, lined and edged with short black hair, and situated like those of the single horned rhinoceros. The horns were black, the larger was placed immediately above the nose, pointing upwards,, and was bent a little back; it was about nine inches long. The small horn was four inches long, of a pyra midal shape, flattened a little, and placed above the eyes, rather a little more forward, standing in a line with the larger horn, immediately above it. They were both firmly attached to the skull, nor was there any appearance of joint or muscles to move them C). The neck was thick and short, the skin on the under side thrown in 
C) Mr Bruce, however, says, that in the living animal the horns are extremely sensible. He informs us, 
