presumed by law incapable to commit 
a 
rape, and therefore it seems cannot be found guilty of it. For though in other felonies " malitia supplet ætatem yet, as to this particular species of felony, the law sup poses an imbecility of body as well as mind. 
The civil law seems to suppose a prostitute or common harlot incapable of any injuries of this kind: not allowing any punishment for violating the chastity of her, who hath indeed no chastity at all, or at least hath no regard to it. But the law of England does not judge so hardly of offenders, as to cut off all opportunity of retreat even from common strumpets, and to treat them as never capable of amendment. It therefore holds it to be felony to force even a con scubine or harlot; because the woman may have for saken that unlawful course of life : for, as bi acton well observes, " licet meretrix fuerit antea, certe tunc temporis non fuit, cum reclamando nequitiae ejus con fentire noluit.” 
As to the material facts requisite to be given in evi dence and proved upon an indictment of rape, they are of such a nature, that, though necessary to be known and fettled, for the conviction of the guiky and preser vation of the innocent, and therefore are to be found in such criminal treatises äs discourse of these matters in detail, yet they are highly improper to be publicly discussed, except only in a court of justice. we shall therefore merely add upon this head a few remarks from sir Matthew Hale, with regard to the competen ey and credibility of witnesses; which may, 
salvo pudore, 
be considered. 
And, first, the party ravished may give evidence upon oath, aud is in law a competent witness; but the credi bility of her testimony, and how far forth she is to be believed, must be left to the jury upon the circumstances of fact that concur in that testimony. For instance : if the witness be of good fame; if she presently diseover ed the offence, and made search for the offender; if the party accused fled for it; these and the like are concurring circumstances, which give greater probability to her evidence. But, on the other side, if she be of evil fame, and stand unsupported by others; if she con cealedsthe injury for any considerable time after she had opportunity to complain; if the place, where the fact was alleged to be committed, was where it was possible she might have been heard, and she made no outcry : these and the like circumstances carry a strong, but not conclusive, presumption that her testimony is false or feigned. 
Moreover, if the rape be charged to be committed on an infant under 12 years of age, she may still be a competent witness, if she hath sense and understanding to know the nature and obligations of an oath; and, even if she hath not, it is thought by sir Matthew Hale, that she ought to b.c. heard without oath, to give the court information; though that alone will not be sufficient to convict the offender. And he is of this opinion, sirst, Because the nature of the offence being secret, there may be no other possible proof of the actual fact; though afterwards there may be con current circumstances to corroborate it, proved by other witnesses : and, secondly, Because the law allows what the child told her mother, or other relations, to be given in evidence, since thc nature of the case admits frequently of no better proof; 
and there 
is much more reason for the court to hear the narra tion of the child herself, than to receive it at secondhand from those who swear they heard her say so. And indeed it seems now to be settled, that in these cafes infants of any age are to be heard; and, if they have any idea of an oath, to be also sworn;; being found by experience, that infants of very tender years often give the clearest and truest testimony. But in any of these cafes, whether the child be sworn or not, it is to be wished, in order to render her evidence credible, that there should be some concurrent testimony of time, place, and circumstances, in order to make out the fact; and that the conviction should not be grounded singly on the unsupported accusation of 
an 
infant under years of discretion. There may be therefore, in many cases of this nature, witnesses who are competent, that is, who may be admitted to be heard; and yet, after being heard, may prove not to be credible, or such as the jury is bound to believe. For one excellence of the trial by jury is, that the jury are triers of the credit of the witnesses, as well as of thc truth of the fact. 
"It is true (fays this learned judge), that rape is a most detestable crime, and therefore ought severely and impartially to be punished with death; but it musfc be remembered, that it is an accusation easy to be made, hard to be proved, but harder to be defended by the party accused, though innocent.” He then relates two very extraordinary cafes of malicious prosecution for this crime, that had happened within his own observation; and concludes thus : " I mention these in stances, that we may be the more cautious upon trials of offences of this nature, wherein the court and jury may with so much ease be imposed upon, without great care and vigilance; the heinousness of the offence many times transporting the judge and jury with fo much indignation, that they are over hastily carried to the conviction of the persons accused thereof, by the confident testimony of sometimes false and malicious witnesses.” 
RAPHAEL (D’urbino), the greatest, most sublime, and most excellent painter that has appeared, since the revival of the sine arts, was the son of an indifferent painter named 
sanzio, 
and was born at Urbino on Good Friday 1482. The popes Julius II and. Leo X who employed him, loaded him with wealth and honour; and it is said that cardinal De st Bibiana had such a value for him, that he offered him his niece in marriage. His genius is admired in all his pictures; his contours are free, his ordonnances magnificent, his designs correct, his figures elegant, his expressions lively, his attitudes natural, his heads graceful; in fine, everything is beautiful, grand, sublime, just, and adorn ed with graces. These various perfections he derived, not only from his excellent abilities, but from his study of antiquity and anatomy; and from the friendship he contracted with Ariosto, who contributed not a little to the improvement of his taste. His pictures are principally to be found in Italy and Paris. That of the Transfiguration, preserved at Rome in the church of st Peter Monterio, passes for his master pieee.' He had a handsome person, was well proportioned, and had great sweetness of temper; was polite, affable, and mo 
