want of 
provisions. As these ships were commanded by their bravest sea officers, they soon returned with an 'immense booty, and a great many prisoners. Among ■other vessels, they took a galley richly laden, on board of which they sound a great variety of valuable surni ture, and a royal robe, which Phila herself had wrought and sent as a present to her husband Demetrius, accompanied with a letter written with her own hand. The Rhodians sent the furniture, the royal robe, and even the letter, to Ptolemy; which exasperated deme trius to a great degree. 
while Demetrius was preparing to attack the city, the Rhodians having assembled the people and magistrates to consult about the measures they should take, some proposed in the assembly the pulling down of the statues of Antigonus and his son Demetrius, which till then had been held in the utmost veneration. But this proposal was generally rejected with indignation, and their prudent conduct greatly allayed the wrath both 
of 
Antigonus and Demetrius. However, the latter continued to carry on the siege with the utmost vigour, thinking it would reflect no small dishonour on him were he obliged, to quit the place without making himself master of it. He caused the walls to be secretly undermined : but, when they were ready to shall, a descrter very opportunely gave notice of the whole to the townsmen; who haviag, with all expedition, drawn a deep trench all along the wall, began to countermine, and, meeting the enemy underground, obliged them to abandon the work, while both parties guarded the mines, one Athenagoras a Milesian, who had been sent to the assistance of the Rhodians by Ptolemy with a body of mercenaries, promised to betray the city to the Demetrians, and let them in thro’ the mines in the nighttime. But this was only in order to ensnare them; for Alexander, a noble ma cedonian, whom Demetrius had sent with a choice body of troops to take possession of a post agreed on, no sooner appeared, but he was taken prisoner by the Rhodians, who were waiting for him under arms. — Athenagoras was crowned by the senate with a crown of gold, and presented with sive talents of silver. 
Demetrius now gave over all thoughts of undermining the walls, and placed all his hopes of reducing the city in the battering engines which he had contrived. Having therefore levelled the ground under the walls, he brought up his helepolis, with four testudoes on each side of it. Two other testudoes of an extraordinary size, bearing battering rams, were likewise moved forwards by 1000 men. Each story of the helepolis was silled with all sorts of engines for discharging of stones, arrows, and darts, when all things were ready, Demetrius ordered the signal to be given; when his men, setting up a shout, assaulted the city on all sides both by sea and land. But, in the heat of the attack, when the walls were ready to fall by the repeated strokes of the battering rams, am bassadors arrived from Cnidus, earnestly solicsting Demetrius to fuspend all further hostilities, and at the same time giving him hopes that they should prevail upon the Rhodians to submit to an honourable capitulation. A fuspenfipn of arms was accordingly agreed on, and ambassadors sent from both ssdes. But the Rhodians refasmg to capitulate on the conditions Of 
fered them, the attack was renewed with so much 
fury, and the machines played off in so brisk 
a 
manner, that a large tower built with square stones, and the wall that flanked it, were battered down. The besie ged, nevertheless, sought in the breach with fo much courage and resolution, that the enemy, after various unsuccesssul attempts, were forced to abandon the en teprise, and retire. 
In this conjuncture, a fleet which Ptolemy had freighted with 300, 000 measures of corn, and different kinds of pulse for thc use of the Rhodians, ar rived very seasonably in the port, nothwithstandiug the vigilance of the enemy’s ships, which cruized on the coasts of the issand to surprise them. A few days after came in safe two other fleets, one sent by caf sander, with 100, 000 bushels of barley; the other by Lysimachus, with 400, 000 bushcts of corn and as many of barley. This seasonable and plentiful supply arriving when the city began to suffer for want of provisions, inspired the besieged with new courage, and raised their drooping spirits. Being thus animated, they formed a design of setting the enemy’s engines on sire; and with this view ordered a body of men to sally out the night ensuing, about the second watch, with torches and sirebrands, having sirst placed on the walls an incredible number of engines, to discharge stones, arrows, darts, and fireballs, against those who should attempt to oppose their detachment. The Rhodian troops, pursuant to their orders, all on a sudden sallied out, and advancing, in spite of all opposition, to the batteries, set them on sire, while the engines from the walla played incessantly on those who endeavoured to extinguish the flames. The Demetrians on this occasion fell in great numbers, being incapable, in the darkness of the night, either to see the engines that continually difeharged showers of stones and arrows upon them, or to join in one body and repulse the enemy. The conflagration was so great, that several plates of iron falling from the helepolis, that vast engine would have been entirely consumed, had not the troops that were stationed in it with all possible speed quenched the 
fire 
with water, before prepared, and ready in the apart ments of the engine against such accidents. deme trius, fearing lest all his machines should be consumed, called together, by sound of trumpet, those whose province it was to move them; and, by their help, brought them off before they were entirely destroyed. When it was day, he commanded all the darts and arrows that had been shot by the Rhodians to be carefully gathered, that he might from their number form some judgement of the number of machines in the city. Above 800 firebrands were found on the spot, and no fewer than 1500 darts, all discharged in a very small portion of the night. This struck the prince himself with no small terror; for he never imagined that they would have been able to bear the charges of such formidable preparations. However, after having caused the ssain to be buried, and given directions for the curing of the wounded, he applied himself to the repairing of his machines, which had bccn dismounted and rendered ■quite unserviceable. 
In the mean time, the 'besieged, improving the respite allowed them by the removal of the machines, built a third wall in the form of a crescent, which took in all that part that was most exposed to the enemy s batteries; and, besides, drew a deep trench behind the 
