to believe the future existence of the soul; but, aware of the consequence, 
Northeast forte animas Acherunte reamur 
Effugere, aut umbras inter vivos volitare, 
be endeavours to explain these curious phenomena on some of the odd and fantastic principles of the Epicureans. In doing this, however, he pretends not to deny that these images appear to be real; but candidly .acknowledges that 
-- They strike and shake 
The airy soul, as when we are awake, with stroke so lively, that we think we view The absent dead, and think the image true. 
Creech 
we here see how the belief of the foul’s immortality came to be general among mankind. But for this information we are much more indebted to the poets, who have given us faithful transcripts of nature, than to the philosophers who have wished to entertain us with their own theories, or to those laborious men of erudition, who have dreaded as much to examine the source of an ancient report as the friends of Ulysses to approach the coast of Cimmerian darkness. with them tradition is the ultimate boundary of research : and as gorgons, chimaeras, and hydras, have come down to us by tradition; fo they, with great sagacity, sus pect, that tradition must likewise be at the bottom of the foul’s immortality, and occasion the visions and phantoms of the dead. 
To tradition we have allowed all that it can justly claim; but we cannot allow it to be the only suurce of this opinion : and we have felt the highest indignation upon hearing men of learning and genius affirm, from a salse zeal for the honour of revelation, that mankind, without this instruction, could never have acquired the art of building huts to screen them from the cold, or have learned the method of propagating their species! The reader must not here suppose that we allude to Polydore Virgil bave have in our eye persons now alive, with whom we have conversed on the subject, and who (terrifiedat the length to which some philosophers have carried the doctrine of instincts, and others the reasoning powers of the mind) have contended, with the utmost earnestness, that we know nothing — not even the functions of our animal nature — but by tradi tion or written revelation. 
Having now seen the source of the opinion concerning the future existence of the soul, and pointed out the natural phenomena by which mankind were led to embrace it, we come next to review the arguments by which the philosophers attempted to confirm it. 
Pythagoras believed, with the rest of his country, that annihilation was never the end, and that nonentity was never the beginning, of anything that is. His general doctrine upon this subject was shortly expressed in very few worth, 
Omnia mutantur, nihil interit. 
He afterwards learned from Egyptian priests that the soul migrates into new bodies; and being, it seems, a person of a moil extraordinary and astonishing memory, he found there was some truth in the story : for after musing, he began to remember that he was Euphorbus, the ion of pan theus, that was slain by Menelaus in the Trojan war; and upon a jaunt to Peloponnesus, recollected the shield which he had worn 
at 
the time of the siege, in one of the temples of Juno at Argos! That none might question the truth of his assertion, his followers presently removed all doubts by the famous argument, the ipse dixlt of Egyptian origin. 
As Pythagoras taught that human souls are frequent ly thrust into brute shapes, and, as some imagined, by way of punishment; it occurred to Plato, that all bodies, even the human, are a sort of prisons; and that, in confeqnence of this confinement, the soul was subjected to the rage of desire, appetite, and passion, and to all the wretched miseries of a gaol. To explain this mystery, he supposed that desires and appetites belong to a soul that is purely animal residing in the body. But he was perplexed with another difficulty; for as he thought highly of the goodness of Deity, he could not imagine how he should imprison ns without a crime. Hesuppostst, therefore, that prior to its union with the present body the soul had existed in one of aether, which it still retains; but that even in this etherialbody it had felt something of impure desire;; happening to indulge the vicious appetite, had contracted some stains of pollution, for which it was confined in its present body as a house of correction to do penance and improve its morals. 
To prove this ideal preexistence of the soul, Plato availed himself of an opinion that was general in his time, that coincided with the doctrines of Pythagoras, and that was partly founded on a sort of reasoning and observation. He thought that matter and intelligence are coeternal (fee Platonism.); that there are various orders of souls; that those of both the man and the brute are parts or emanations COF the 
anima rnundj, 
or soul of the world; that all are ultimately parts or emanations of Deity itself; and that all their faculties are more or less restricted and confined, according to those organised systems with which they are connected. Know first (fays one delivering his doctrines), 
Know first, that heav’n and earth’s compacted frame, 
And flowing waters, and the starry flame, 
And both the radiant lights, one common soul 
Inspires, and seeds, and animates, the whole. 
b) 
This writer allots part of a chapter to show, " Quis primum instituerit artem meretriciam, ” as being, ■in his opinion, a traditionary practice. see Lib. III cap. 17. 
De Rerum Inventoribus. 
c) She Deity was conceived by the ancients sometimes as a solid, wlien inferior souls were called 
à. e. 
fragments or parts broken off from him; and sometimes as a ssuid, when they were considered as 
« roppvcci 
or emanations : but from none of these hypotheses did they reason consequentially. Their were often after death reunited to the Deity; and their 
xyoppow 
often remained separate and distinct for a song while, without flowing back as they ought to have done, and mingling with, the great ocean of spirit. 
