best style, and shows that his fancy, his imagination, and his other great powers in the art which he professed, remained unabated to the end of his life, when the last touches were given to this picture, 
"The hand of Reynolds fell, to rise no more.” 
On Thursday February the 23d 1792, the world was deprived of this amiable man and excellent artist at the age of 68 years; a man than whom no one, according to Johnson, had passed through life with more observation of men and manners. The ' following character of him is said to be the production of Mr Burke : 
- “H is illness was long, but born with a mild and cheerful fortitude, without the least mixture of anything irritable or querulous, agreeably to the placid and even tenor of his whole life. He had from the beginning of his malady a distinct view of his dissolution, which he contemplated with that entire compo sure which nothing but the innocence, integrity, and usefulncsa of his life, and an unaffected submission to the will of Providence, could bestow. In this situation he liad every consolation from family tenderness, which his tenderness to his family had always merited. 
"sir Joshua Reynolds was, on very many accounts, one of the most memorable men of his time : Pie was the sirst Englishman who added the praise of the ele gant arts to the other glories of his country. In taste, in grace, in facility, in happy invention, and in the richness and harmony of colouring, he was equal to the great matters of the renowned ages. In portrait he went beyond them; for he communicated to that description of the art in which English artists are the most engaged, a variety, a fancy, and a dignity, derived from the higher branches, which even those who professed them in a superior manner did not ai ways preserve when they delineated individual nature. His portraits remind the spectator of the invention of history and the amenity of landscape. In painting portraits, he appears not to be raised upon that platform, but to de scend to it from a higher sphere. His paintings illu strate his lessons, and his lessons seem to be derived from his paintings. 
“He possessed the theory as perfectly as the practice of his art. To be such a painter, he was a profound and penetrating philosopher. 
"In full happiness of foreign and domestic same, admired by the expert in art, and by the learned in science, courted by the great, caressed by sovereign powers, and celebrated by distinguished poets, bis native humility, modesty, and candour, never forsook him, even on surprise or provocation; nor was the least degree of arrogance or assumption visible to the mast scrutinising eye in any part of his conduct or discourse" 
"talents of every kind — powerful from nature, and not meanly cultivated in letters — his social virtues in all the relations and all the habitudes of life, rendered him the centre of a very great and unparalleled variety of agreeable societies, which will be dissipated by his death. He had too much merit not to excite some jea lousy, too much innocence to provoke any enmity. The loss of no man of his time can be felt with more sincere, general, and unmixed sorrow.” 
REZAN, or Rezanskoi, an ancient town of ruf sia, and capstal of a duchy of the same name, with an archbishop’s see. If was formetly considerable sor its extent and riches; but it was almost ruined by the Tartars in 1568. The country is populous, and was for merly governed by its own princes. E. Long. 42. 37. N. Lat. 54. 54. 
rhadamanthus, a severe judge, and king of Lydia; the poets make him one of the three judges of hell. 
rhagades, in medicine, denotes chaps or clefts in any part of the body. If seated in the anus, and recent, the patient must sit still, and sit over the steam of warm water. The epulotic cerate may also be applied. If the lips of these fissures are callous, they muss be cut or otherwise treated as to become new ulcera tions. 
RHAMA, or Rama, an incarnate deity of the sirst rank, in Indian mythology. sirwilliam Jones believes he was the Dionysos a) of the Greeks, whom they named 
Bromius, 
without knowing why; and 
Bugenes, 
when they represented him 
horned, 
as well as 
Lyaios 
and 
Eleutherias 
the deliverer, 
rnâtmambosov dythyrambosche. 
triumphant. " Most of those titles (says sir william) were adopted by the Romans, by whom he was called 
Bruma, Tauriformis, Liber, 
and 
Triumphus; 
and both nations had records or traditionary accounts of his giving laws to men and deciding their contests, of his improving navigation and commerce, and, what may appear yet more observable, of his conquering India and other countries with an army of satyrs, commanded by no less a personage than Pan; whom Lillius Giraldus, on what authority I know not, asserts to have resided in Iberia ‘ when he had returned, says the learned mythologist, from the Indian war, in which he accompanied Bacchus.’ It were superfluous iu a mere essay to run any length in the parallel between this European god and the sovereign of Ayodhya, whom the Hindus believe to have been an appearance on earth of the preserving power; to have been a conqueror of the highest renown, and the deliverer of nations from tyrants, as well as of his confort sita from the giant Ravan king of Lanca; and to have commanded in chief a numerous and intrepid race of those large monkeys, which our naturalists,. or some of them, have denominated Indian satyrs : bis. general, the prince of satyrs, - was named 
Hanumat, 
or " with high cheekbones and, with workmen of such agility, lie soon raised a bridge of rocks over the sea, part of which, say the Hindus, yet remains; and it is probable the series of rocks to which the Muffulmans or the Portuguese have given the foolish name of 
adam’s 
(it should be called 
rama’s) 
bridge. Might not this 
a) The learned president, whose death will be lamented by every scholar, by the orientalist and the divine especially, imagines, that this would fully appear from comparing together the 
Dionyfiaca 
of Nonnus and the 
Ramayan 
of Valmic, the sirst poet of the Hindus. He adds, that, in his opinion, Rhama was the son of Cush, and that he might have established the sirst regular government in that part of Asia. in which his exploits are said to have been performed. 
