of common-sense could receive it as authentic. He says it was death to touch the ark! As such an assertion was never heard of before, and as the ritual he was endea vouring to make them esseem sacred was opprcffively multifarious; surely some daring spirit would have ventured to put his veracity to the test by moving the ark and even offering sacrifices; and such a test would at once have exposed the imposture. The budding rod, too, and the hat of manna, which, though long preserved, were never before heard of, must have produced inquiries that could not fail to end in detection. These books speak likewise of weekly sabbatlis, daily sacrisices, a yearly expiation, and monthly sestivals, all to be kept in remembrance of great things particularly fpecisied as done for the nation at an early period of its existence. If this was not the case, could the forger of the books have persuaded the people that it really was fo? The enlightened reasoners of this nation would be offended were we to compare them with the ancient Israelites; but surely they will not say that we are partial to that people, if we bring them to a level with the most savage tribes of the Russian empire, who profess Christianity? Now, were a book to be forged containing an account of many strange things done a thousand years ago in siberia by an 
Apollonius, 
or any other philosopher or hero, numbers of the barbarians inhabiting that country would, we doubt not, give implicit credit to the 
legend 
: But were the author, in confirmation of his narrative, to affirm, that all the siberians had from that day to this kept sacred the sirst day of the week in memory of his hero; that they had all been baptised or circumcised in his name; that in their public judicatories they had sworn by his name, and upon that very book which they had never seen before; and that the very same book was their law and their gospel, by which for a thousand years back the actions of the whole people had been regulated — surely the groffest savage among them would reject with contempt and indigna tion a forgery so palpable. 
If this reasoning be conclnsive, the books of Moses must indubitably be authentic, and he himself must have been inspired by the spirit of God. But this point being established, the question respecting the origin of the primaeval religion is completely answered. The writer of the book of Genelis informs us, that Adam and Noah received many revelations from the Author of their being, and that their religion was founded on the principles of the purest theism. How it degenerated among the greater part of their descendants into the groffest idolatry, has been shown at large in another place. see Polytheism. 
II Having thus answered the sirst question proposed sor discussion in the present article, we now proceed to consider the second, and to inquire whether and how far religious sentiments have a tendency to injure or to pro mote the welfare of society?? is a subject of the utmost importance; and if we prove successsul in our inquiries, we shall be enabled to determine whether the governors of mankind ought carefully to support reli gious establishments, or whether the pliilosoplier who calls himself a citizen of the world, and proscffes to feel the most eager desire to promote the interesis of his species, acts consistently when he labours to exterminate religion from among men. 
A celebrated French financier *, a man of abilities 
and virtue, who has published a book on the importance of religious opinions, labours to show that religious esta blishrnents are indispensably necessary for the maintenance of civil order., and demonslrates how weak the influence of political institutions is on the morals of mankind; but he refuses to review the history of past ages in order to discover how far religious opinions have actually been injurious or beneficial to the welfare of society; choo sing rather to content himself with the result of a series of metaphysical disquisitions. 
we admire the spirit which induced a man who had spent a considerable part of his life amid the hurry of public business, to become the strenuous advocate of religion;; we cannot help thinking that, notwithstanding the eloquence, the acuteness, and the knowledge of mankind which he has displayed, his refusing to admit the evidence of facts concerning the influence of reli gion on society may possibly be regarded by its enemies as a tacit acknowledgment that the evidence of facts would be unfavourable to the cause which he wishes to defend. The fallacy of general reasonings, and the inutility of metaphysics for the purposes of life, are so uni versally acknowledged, that they have long been the theme of declamation. Though the abuses of religion, as well as the abuses of reason, the perversion of any of the principles of the human mind, and the misap plication of the gifts of providence, may have often produced effects hurtful to the virtue and the happiness of mankind; yet, after tracing religion to a divine ori gin, we cannot, for a moment, allow ourselves to think that the primary tendency of religion must be hostile to the interests of society, or that it is necessary to view it abstractly in order that we may not behold it in an odious light. Often has the sceptic attacked religion with artful malice; but perhaps none of his attacks has been so skilfully directed as that which has sirst ridiculed the absurdity of the most absurd superstitions, and afterwards laboured to prove that the most absurd system of polytheism is more favourable to the interests of society than the purest and most sublime theism. in ftances in which the abuse of religion had tended to deprave the human heart, and had led to the most shocking crimes, have been aisidnoussy collected, and displayed in all the aggravating colours in which elo quence could array them, till at length even the friends of true religion have been abashed; and it has become a fashionable opinion, that nothing but sclf interest or bigotry can prompt men to represent religion as the friend of civil order. But let us try if, by a candid consideration of what effects have resulted to society from religious principles, in general, without compa ring these with regard to truth or falsehood, we can 
advance anything to vindicate the character of religion. 
Notions of Deity in general, of various orders of divinities, of their moral character, of their influence on human life, of a future Rate, and of the immortality of the human soul, constitute the leading articles of religion. Let us view these together with the rites to which they have given jife; and we may perhaps be enabled to form some well grounded notions on this important point. 
I. Having proved that the first religious principles entertained by men were derived from revelation, it is impossible to suppose that they could produce effects in 
