fistaflfce been made from within, it is probable they would have joined the royal party. But towards eight o’clock M. Roederer procured admittance to the palace, and told the king that armed multitudes were assembling in hostile array around the Thuilleries; that the national, guard was not to be depended upon; and that, in case of resistance, the whole royal family would most certainly be massacred. He therefore advised the king to seek protection in the hall of the national assembly. with this advice the king, with his usual facility of temper, was ready to comply; but the queen opposed with vehemence the humiliating proposal. Becoming gradually, however, alarmed for the sasety of her children, 
she 
gave her consent 5 and the king and queen, the princess Elizabeth, with the prince and princess royal, went on foot to the hall of the assembly" " am come hither (said his majesty) to prevent a great crime. Among you, gentlemen, I believe myself in safety.” By an article of the constitution the assein bly could not deliberate in presence of the king. The royal family were, therefore, placed in a narrow box separated from the hall by a railing, where they remained sor 14 hours without any place to which they could retire for refreshment, excepting a very sinall closet adjoining. Here they sat listening to debates, in which the royal character and office were treated with every mark of insult. 
when the king left the palace of the Tliuilleiies, he unfortunately forgot to order it to be immediately surrendered. He recollected this as soon as he reached the assembly, and sent orders for this purpose; but it was now too late, 'she insurgents amounted to about 20, 000 effective men. They were drawn up in tolerable order by westerman a Prussian, and had about 30 pieces of cannon along with them. The gentlemen within the palace, who had assembled to protect the king’s person, were now dispirited, and knew not what part to act. The commander of the swiss, M. Assry, was absent, and the captains knew not what to do; and the national guard had no leader in consequence of the death of Mandat. About nine o’clock the outer gates were forced open; and the insurgents formed their line in front of the palace. A bloody combat commenced chiefly between the Marseillois and the swiss. After a brave reslstance of about an hour, the swiss were overpowered by numbers, and gave way. All of them that could be sound in the palace were massacred; some •even while imploring quarter on their knees. Others eseaped into the city, and were protected by individuals. Of this brave regiment, however, only 200 survived;; every human being, even the lowest servants found in the palace, were put to death. The swisa taken prifonere in various quarters were conducted to the door of the assembly, and taken by a decree under the protection of the state. But the sanguinary multitude insisted upon putting them to instant death; and the assembly would, in ashprobability, have been unable to protect them, had smt the Marseillois interfered in their favour. 
The suspension of the royal authority was now decreed, and the nation was invited to elect a 
Convention 
to determine the nature of its suture government. On this uncommon occasion all Frenchmen of 21 years of age were declared capable of electing, and of being elected, deputies to thc new national Convention. Coni 
missioner were, in the mean time, sent 011 the same evening to give to the armies a salse and favourable account of these transactions. The royal family were sent to the old palace of the Semple in the midst of the city, to remain there under a strict guard; and all persons of rank who had been attached to them were sei r.ed and committed to rhe different prisons. 
To give an idea of the temper of the people of Paris at this time, it is proper to remark, that at the same instant when the multitude with bloody fury were maf sacring tile menial servants in the palace, and could scarcely be restrained from offering violence to the swiss who were made prisoners, they would susser no act of pillage to pass unpunished. several attempts of this kind were accordingly followed by the instant death of the criminals. The plate, the jewels, and money found in the I huilleries were brought to the national assembly, and thrown down in the hall. One man, whose dress and appeal ance bespoke extreme poverty, cast upon the table an hat full of gold. — Bu the minds of these men were elevated by enthusiasm; and they conceived themselves as at this moment the champions of freedom, and objects of terror to the kings of the earth. 
In the mean time, the situation of France was extremely critical, and it appeared very doubtful if the new Convention would ever be sussered to assemble. Lafayette had accidentally got speedy notice of the events of the 10th of Augush He advised the magistrates of the town of sedan to imprison the commissioners from the national assembly when they should arrive there; which was accordingly donc. He, at the same time, published an address to his ärmyj calling upon them to support the king and the constitution; but finding that they were not to be depended upon, on the 19th August he left his camp in the night, accompanied only by his stass and a few servants. They took the rout of Rochefort in Liege, which was a neutral country; but were met by a party of the enemy, who took them prisoners, and they were detained in Prussian and Austrian dungeons till autumn 1794, when it is said that Lafayette himself made isis escape. The severe treatment of this man was probably a considerable error in policy 011 the part of the allies. Fiis fide lity to his king is very generally admitted; though some have entertained strong suspicions of his having°acted a very base part to that unfortunate monarch; and in the British house of commons he has been calied an abandoned ruffian. This expression is certainly too strong. His errors seem to have been those of the head rather than of the heart; and at all events, he should have been protected by the allies if sor no other reason than to encourage subsequent desertions among the officers of the republican açmy. 
To return from this digression. The commissioners were soon set at liberty at sedan, and received with applause by the army of Lafayette. General Arthur Dillon at sirst entered into the sentiments of Lafayette; but the politic Dumourier diverted him from his purpose, and by this means regained his credit with the Jacobins, and was appointed commander in chief. The other generals, Biron, Montesquieu, Kellerman, and Custine, made no opposition to the will of the national assembly. 
Meanwhile, the combined armies of Austria and Prussia had entered France. The duke of Brunswicksa 
