chap , ri, and Theology, n 8, 9.) But surely it would be rash to infer, either that every truth sor which, when it is known, the ingenuity of man can frame 
a 
demonstration, is therefore 
discover able 
by hu m.an sagacity, or that all the truths which have been discovered by a 
Newton 
or a 
Locke 
might therefore have been discovered by untaught barbarians. In mathematical fciençe, there are few demonstrations of ea sier cornpreliension than that given by Euclid, of the theorem of which Pythagoras is the reputed author; yet no man ever dreamed that a boy capable of being made to under stand that theorem, must therefore have sagacity equal to the sage of samos; or that such a boy, having never heard of the relation between the hypothenuse and other two sides of a right angled triangle, would be likely to 
discover 
that the square of the former js precisely equal to the sum of the squares of the latter. Just soit seems to be with the fundamental truths of theology. There can hardly be conceived a demonstration less intricate, or more conclusive, than that which the man of science employs to prove the existence of at least one God, possessed of boundless power and perfect wisdom. And could we suppose that the human race had remained without any knowledge of God in the world, till certain lucky individuals had by some means or other made themselves masters of the rules of logic, and the philosophy of causes, there can be no doubt but that these individuals might have discovered the existence of superior powers, and communicated their discovery to their aifociates and followers. But this iuppositlon cannot be admitted, as it is contradicted by the evidence of all history. No nation or tribe has ever been found, in which there is not reason to believe that some notions were entertained of superior and invisible powers, upon which depends the happiness or misery of mankind : and from the most authentic records cf antiquity, it is apparent that very pure principles of theism prevailed in some nations long before the rules of logic, and the philosophy of causes, were thought of by any people under heaven. 
The supposition before us is inadmissible upon other accounts. some modern philosophers have fancied that the original progenitors of mankind were left entirely to themselves from the moment of their creation; that they wandered about for ages without the use of speech and in the lowest state of savagism; but that they gradually civilised themselves, and at last stumbled upon the contrivance of making articulate sounds significant of ideas, which was followed by the invention of arts and sciences, with all the blessmgs of religion and legislation in their train. But this is a wild reverie, inconsistent with the phenomena of human nature. 
It is a well known fact, that a man blind from bis birth, and suddenly made to see, would not by means cf his newly acquired sense discern either the magnitude or figure or distance of objects, but would conceive everything which communicated to him visible sensations as inseparably united to his eye or his mind (see me taphysics, 
n0 
49 — 53)· How long his sense of sight would remain in such an imperfect state, we cannot po sitively say; but from attending to the visible sensations 
of 
infants, we are confident that weeks, if not months, elapse before they can distinguish one thing srom another. we have indeed been told, that Cheseldensa famous patient, though he was at 
sirst 
in the state which 
we have described, learned to distinguish objects by 
sight in the 
course 
of 
a 
few hours, or at the most of a few days; but admitting this to a certain extent to be true, it may easily be accounted for. The disease call ed a 
cataract 
stldom occasions total blindness;; sct us suppose the eyes of this man to have been fo completely dimmed as to communicate no scnsation whatever upon being exposed to the rays of light; still we must remember that he had long possessed the power 
of 
locomotion and all his other scns’es in perfection. He was therefore well acquainted with the real, 
i. e, 
the tangible magnitude, sigure, and distance of many objects;; having been often told that the things which he touched would, upon his acquiiition of light, com municate new sensations to his mind, differing srom each other according to the distance, sigure, and magnitude of the objects by which they were occasioned, he would soon learn to infer the one from the other, and to distinguish near objects by means of his sight. 
Ί he progenitors of the human race, however, if left to themselves srom the moment of their creation, had not the same advantages. when they sirst opened their eyes, they had neither moved, nor handled, nor heard, nor smelled, nor tailed, nor had a single idea or notion treasured up in their memories; but were in all these respects in the state of newborn infants. Now we should be glad to be informed by those sages who have conducted mankind through many generations in which they were 
mutum et turpe pecus 
to that happy pe ricd when they invented language, how the sirst men were taught to distinguish objects by their sense of sight, and how they contrived to 
live 
till this most necessary faculty was acquired? It does not appeal that men are like brutes, provided with a number of instincta which guide them blindfold and without experience to whatever is necessary sor their own preservation (fee Instinct) : On the contrary, all voyagers tell us that,, in strange and uninhabited countries, they dare not venture to taste unknown fruits unless they perceive that these fruits are eaten by the fowls of the air. But without the aid of instinct, or of some other guide equally to be depended upon, it is not in our power to conceive how men dropped srom the hands of their Creator, and lest from that instant wholly to themselves, could move a single step without the most imminent danger, or even stretch out their hands to lay hold of that food which we may suppose to have been placed within their reach. They could not, sor many days, distinguish a precipice srom a plane, a rock from a pit, or a ■river from the meadows through which it rolled. And in such circumstances, how could they possibly exist, till their sense of sight had acquired such perfection as to be a sufficient guide to all their necessary motions 
ί 
Can any consistent theist suppose that the God whose goodness is so conspicuousiy displayed in all his works, would leave his noblest creature on earth, a creature for whose comfort alone many other creatures seem to have been formed, in a situation so forlorn as this, where his immediate destruction appears to be inevitable? No! This fuppcsition cannot be formed, because mankind still exist. 
WÜ1 
it then be said, that when God formed the sirst men, he not only gave them organs of sensation, and souls capable of arriving by disclpline at the exercise of retuon, 
but 
that he also impressed upon their minds 
