thc 
goô<? and a hell for the wicked. In this heaven 
the saints dwell in the presence of God and the unin terrupted splendours of day. Those who have been wise shine as the firmament, and those who have converted many to righteousuess as the stars. Their bodies are glorious, immortal, incorruptible, not subject to disease, to pain, or to death. Their minds are strangers to sor rtrw, to crying, to disappointment; all their desires are presently satisfied; while they are calling, they are an lvered; while they are speaking, they are heard. Their mental faculties are also enlarged; they no more see things obscurely, and as through a cloud, but continu ally beholding new wonders and beauties in creation, are constantly exclaiming" " holy, holy! is the Lore! of Hosts, worthy is he to receive glory, and honour, and th’inkfgiving; and to him be ascribed wisdom, and power, and might; for great and marvellous are his works, and the whole universe is filled with his glory.” 
Their notions of hell differ considerably. some understanding 
the 
scriptures literally, have plunged the VI icked into an abyss without any bottom; have made this gulf darker than night; have filled lt with rancorous and malignant spirits, that are worse than furies; and have described it as lull of sulphur, burning for ever. This frightful gulf has by some been placed in the bowels of the earth; by some in the sun; by some in the moon; and by some in a comet : bat as the scriptures have determined nothing on tile subject, all such conjectures are idle and groundless. 
Others imagine, that the fire and sulphur are here 
to 
be taken in a figurative sense. These suppose the torments of hell to be troubles of mind and remorses of conscience;; support their opinion by observing, that matter cannot act upon spirit; forgetting', perlraps, that at the resurrection the spirit is to be clothed with a body, and, at any rate, that st is not for man vainly to prescribe bounds to Omnipotence. 
what seems to have tortured the genius of divines much more than heaven or hell, is a middle state. On this subject there being little revealed in scripture, many have thought it incumbent upon them to supply the defect; which they seem to have, done in different ways. From the scriptures speaking frequently of the dead as sseeping in their graves, those who imagine that the powers of the mind are dependent on the body, suppose that they sleep till the resurrection, when they are to be awakened by the trump of God, reunited to their bodies, have their faculties restored, and their sentence awarded. 
This opinion they support by what st Peter says in the Acts, that David is not ascended into heaven; and that this patriarch could not possibly be speaking of himself when he said, “Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, 
t. e. 
the place of the dead.” They observe, too, that the victory of Christ over death and the grave seems to imply, that our souls are subject to their power; that accordingly the scripture speaks frequently of the foul’s drawing near to, of its being redeemed from, and of its descending into, the grave; that the Psasmist, however, declares plainly, that when the breath of man goeth forth, he returneth to 
his 
earth, and that very day his thoughts pcnsh. And should any one choose to con sult Ecclesiastes, he will sind, that the living know that they shall die, but that the dead know not anything : 
that 
their love, and their hatred, and their envy, are 
perished; and that there is no work, nor 
device, 
nor 
wisdom, nor knowledge, in the grave, whether theÿ 
are gone. 
Those who believe that the soul is not sor the exer cise of its faculties dependent on the body, are upon its separation at death obliged to dispose of it some other way. In establishing their theory, they usually begin with attempting to prove, from scripture or tradi tion, both its active and. separate existence; but with proofs from tradition we intend not to meddle. Their arguments from scripture being of more value, deserve our serious consideration; and are nearly as follow. 
Abraham, they say, Isaac, and Jacob, are still living, because Jehovah is their God, and he, it is allowed, 
is 
not the God of the dead, but of the living. But their opponents reply, That this is the argument which our saviour brought from the writings of Moses to prove 
a 
future resurrection of the dead; and that aay person who looks into the context, will see it was not meant of a middle state. From the dead living unto God, our saviour infers nothing more than that they shall live at the resurrection; and that these gentlemen would do well in suture to make a distinction between simply living and living unto God : For though. Abiaham, Isaac, and Jacob, be living unto God, our saviour'has assured us that Abraham is dead, and thé prophets dead. 
A second argument is that glimpse which st paui had of paradise about 14 years before he had written his second Epistle to the Corinthians. To this argument their opponents reply, That as st Paul could not tell whether, on that occasion, he was out of the body or in the body, it is more than probable that the whose was a vision; and, at any rate, it is no proof of a separate exiileiice. 
A third argument is, st paul’s wishing to be absent from the body, arid present with the Lord. But, say their opponents, st Paul desired not to be unclothed, but to be clothed upon r. and as some of those who maintain a separate existencee, bring scripture to prove that thc body || continués united to Christ till the resurrection;; that case, ssi Paul, ifhe wished to be presertt with the Lord, should have rather remained with his body than left ita 
fourth argument is, the appearance cf Moses and Elias upon the mount of transfiguration. To which their opponents reply, that these saints appeared in their bodies; that Elias was never divested of his body; and that the account which we have of the burial of Moses, has led some of the ablest critics and soundest divines to conclude, that he was likewise transsated to heaven without tasting death. At any rate, say they, he might have beerr raised from the dead for the very purpose of being present at the transfiguration, as the bodies of other saints certainly were, to bear testimony to our Lord's resurrection and victory over the grave. 
A fifth argument is, what our saviour said to the thief, “Verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise.” The objection usually made here is, that the expression is evidently ambiguous, and' that the sense depends entirely on the punctuation : for if the point be placed after 
today, 
the meaning will be " Verily, even now, I tell thee, thou shalt be with me in paradise.” But the import of paradise in this place, say the opponents, is likewise doubtful, we learn from st peter’s explanation of the 16th Psalm, that our sa 
