except 
a 
tint of yellowish on thc 
great 
quills of the wing and of the tail. Edwards supposes, that the whiteness is produced by the cold climate of hudson’s Bay, from which he received it, and that they resume their brown feathers during the summer. It appears that several species of this bird have spread further into a merica, and have even reached the southern provinces : for sloane found our third species in Jamaica; and Fernandez seems to indicate two of them in New spain, by the names 
chiquatototl 
and 
elototatl; 
the former being like our woodcock, and the latter lodging under the stalks of maize. 
A bird of this kind, Mr Latham says, was sent from hudson’s Bay, and from the figure, has every appearance of an avoset : however, in edwards’s plate, the toes appear cloven to the bottom; a circumstance seem. ing to overturn the supposition, and only to be authen ticated when other specirnens shall have come under the eye of the well informed naturalist. 
recusants, such persons as acknowledge the pope to be the supreme head of the church, and re fuse to acknowledge the king’s supremacy; who are hence calied 
Popish recusants. 
The penal laws against Papists are now abolished in Britain and in Ireland; and in all probability they will quickly be allowed the amplest privileges. 
RED, one of the colours called 
simple 
or 
primary : 
being one of the shades into which the light naturally divides itselfwhen refracted through a prism. see C h ro matics. 
Red, in dyeing, see that article. — some reckon six kinds or casts of red, viz. scarlet rcd, crimfon red, mad der red, half grain red, lively orange red, and scarlet of cochineal : but it is easy to see that there can be but one proper species of red; namely, the reflection of the light exactly in such a manner as it is refracted by the prism; all other shades being adulterations of that pure colour, with yellow, brown, c. 
Red, in heraldry. see Gules. 
red bird. 
see Muscicapa, n 7. 
ren breaft, 
in ornithology. see Motacilla. 
reli book 
of the exchequer, an ancient record or manuseript volume, in the keeping of the king’s re membrancer, containing diverse miscellany treatises re lating to the times before the conquest. 
reû lead. 
see Chemistry, n 1213. 
RED Precipitate of Mercury. 
see Chemistry, n 764· 
red ruffla, 
or 
Little Russia, 
a province of Poland, bounded on the west by Upper Poland, on the north by Lithuania, on the east by the country of the Little Tartars, and on the south by Moldavia, Transylvania, and a part of Hungary. It comprehends Russia pro perly so called, Volhinia, and Podolia. lt is about 650 miles in length, and from 150 to 250 in breadth. It consists chiefly of large fields, but little cultivated on account of the frequent inroads of the Tartars, and because there is no water carriage. It had the name of 
Red Russia, 
from the colour of the hair of its inha bitants. Russiar properly so called, comprehends the three palatinates of Leopol or Lemburg, Belsko, and Chelm. 
RED sea, 
or 
Arabic Gulf, 
so much celebrated in sacred history, separates Arabia from Upper Ethiopia and part of Egypt. This sea is 350 leaguçs in length 
and 40 in breadth. As no river falls into it of sufficient force to counteract the influence of the tide, it is more affected by the motions of the great ocean than any of the inland seas nearly in the same latitude. It is not much exposed to tempests : the winds usually blow from north to south, and being periodical, like the monsoons of India, invariably determine the season of sailing into or out of this sea. It is divided into two gulfs; that to the east was called the 
Ælanitic gulf, 
from the city Ælana at the north end of it; and that to the west the 
Heroopolitie, 
from the city of heroopo lis; the former of which belongs to Arabia, and the latter to Egypt. 
Mr Bruce has made many observations on this sea, which are worthy of notice. — with regard to the name, he says st was certainly derived from Edom or Esau the son of Jacob; though in another place he says, he wonders that writers have not rather supposed it to have got the epithet of 
Red, 
from the colour of the fand on its coasts, than for other reasons they have alleged. 
w 
ith regard to any redness in the water itself, or in the bottom, which some have asserted, our travel ler assures us that there is no such thing. It is more dif sicult to assign a reason for the Hebrew name of it, which signisies the 
sea of Weeds; 
as he never saw a weed throughout the whole extent of it. " Indeed, (says he) upon the ssightest consideration, it will occur to any one, that a narrow gulf, under the immediate influence of the monsoons, blowing from contrary points six months each year, would have too much agi tation to produce such vegetables, seldom found but in ssagnant waters, and seldom, if ever, found in salt ones. My opinion then is, that it is from the large trees or plants of white coral, spread everywhere over the bottom of the Red sea, perfectly in imitation of plants on land, that the sea has obtained this name. — I saw one of these, which, from a root nearly central, threw out ramifications of an almost circular form, measuring 
26 
seet every way.” 
Our author has also made many usesul observations on the navigation of this sea. " All the western shore (he says) is bold, and has more depth of water than the east; but on this side there is neither anchoring ground nor shoals. It is rocky, with a considerable depth of water everywhere; and there are a number of sunken rocks, which, though not visible, are sufficiently near the surface to destroy a large ship.” The cause of this, in Mr bruce’s opinion, is, that the mountains on the side of Abyssinia and Egypt are all of hard stone, porphyry, many different kinds of marble, granite, ala baster, and basaltes. These being all composed of so lid materials, therefore, can part with very little dust or fand, which might otherwise be blown from them into the sea. On the opposite coast, viz. that of he jaz and Tahamah, on thc Arabian side, the whole con sists of moving sands; a large quantity of which is blown from the southeast by the dry winter monsoons; which being lodged among the rocks on that side, and confined there by the northeast or summer monsoon, which is in a contrary direction, hinders them from coming over to the Egyptian fide. Hence the western coast is full of sunk rocks for want of fand to cover them, with which they would otherwise become islands. They are naked and bare all round, with sharp points like spears; while, on the east side, every rock becomes 
