Bonnes , and the right towards Folz, and everything was disposed in order to attack. To this end, four battalions were detached to attack the village of fran quenies, and twelve battalions to attack the village of Ramillies, which were to be supported by the whole in santry. 
Our artillery began to cannonade the enemy at one; at about two, the attack began with the post of fran quenies, where our infantry had the good fortune to drive the enemy from the hedges, where they were ad vantageously posted, and at the same time all the caval ry of our left wing advanced to attack that of the enemy’s right; soon after ali was in action. whilst the cavalry were engaged, the village of Ramillies was likewise attacked, and forced after a vigorous resistance. 
The battle lasted about two hours, and was pretty obstinate; butso soon as our cavalry had gained ground enough to attack the enemy in flank, they began to give way; at the same time ail their infantry were put in disorder, so that the whole retreated in great cosisu sion. The cavalry of their left wing formed a little upon the high ground, between Offuz and Mount st Andrew, to favour their retreat : but after the infantry and cavalry of our right wing had filed off between the bottom of the village of Ramillies and Offuz, the whole army marched in several columns to attack the enemy anew; but they gave way before we could come up with them, and retired in great confusion, some towards the defile of the Abbey De La Ramée and towards Dongelberge, others towards Judogne, and others again towards Hougarde. They were pursued all night so closely that they were obliged to abandon all their artillery and baggage, part of which was found at judog northeast and at Hougarde, with their chests of ammunition. 
The enemy lost above 30, 000 men, 60 cannon, 8 mortars, standards, colours, baggage, c;; about 3000. The rest of the campaign was spent in the sie ges of Offend, Menin, and Aeth. In fourteen days the Duke defeated and disperfed the best appointed ar my the Fçench ever had, and recovered all spanish Brabant, the marquisate of the holy Roman empire. The army of the enemy consisted of 76 battalions and 142 squadrons, including the king’s household troops 
(La Maison du Roi); 
and the army of the allies was 74 bat talions and. 123 squadrons. Considering the importance of the victory, the loss of the allies was very small, not above 1100 being killed, and 2600 wounded. 
RAMLA, the modern name of Arimathea. see Arimathea. 
RAMMER, an instrument used for driving down stones r piles into the ground; or for beating the earth, in order to render it more solid for a foundation. 
Rammer of a Gun, 
the 
Gmstiek 
; a rod used in charging of a gun, to drive home the powder, as also the shot, and the wad which keeps the shot from rolling out. 
RAMPANT, in heraldry, a term applied to a lion, leopard, or other beast that stu.nds on its hind legs, and rears up his forefeet in the posture of climbing, showing only half his face, as one eye, cit is different from saliant, in which the beast seems springing forward as if making a sally. 
RAMPART, in fortification, is an elevation of earth round a place capable of resisting the cannon of 
an 
enemy; and formed into bastions, curtins, c. 
ramphastos, the 
Toucan, 
in ornithology. 
see Rhamphastos. 
ramsay (Allan), the scots pastoral poet, was a barber in Edinburgh in the early part of the present century. His taste in poetry, however, has justly raised him to a degree of same that may in some meafnre be considered as a recompense for the frowns of fortune. His songs are in universal esteem; as is also the only dramatic performance attributed to him, viz. 
Patie and r ger, 
or 
The Gentle shepherd, 
a scots pa storal. Fie died in 1743; and was father to the ingenious Mr Ramsay, a celebrated painter of the present age, and who has likewise distinguished himself by some well written tracts n various branches of polite literature, particularly the 
Invedigator. 
Ramsay (Andrew Michael), generally known bv the name of the 
Chevalier Ramsay, 
was a polite scots writer, born of a good family at Ayr in 1686. His good parts and learning recommended him to be tutor t the son of the earl of wemyss; after which, conceiving a disgust at the religion in which he had 
been 
edu cated, he in the same ill humour reviewed other Christian churches; and, finding none to his liking, rested for a while in Deism. while he was in this uncertain state of mind, he went to Leyden; where, falling into the company of one Poiret a roystic divine, he received the infection of mysticifm : which prompted him to con sult M. Fenelon, the celebrated archbishop of Cambrav, who had imbibed principles of the same nature; and who gained him over to the Catholic religion in 1709. The subsequent course of his life received its direction from his friendship and connexions with this prelate; and being appointed, governor to the duke de Chateau Thierry, and the prince de Turenne, he was made a knight of the order of st Lazarus, He was sent for to Rome by the chevalier de st George, to undertake the education of his children; but he found so many intrigues and dissensions on his arrival there ill 1724, that he obtained the chevalier’s leave to return to pa ris. He died in 1743, 111 t e °isice s intendant to the duke of Bouillon, prince de Turenne. The .most ca pital work of his writing is the 
Travels of Cyrus, 
which has been several times printed in English. 
Ramsay (the Reverend James), so justly celebrated sor his philanthropy, was, on the 25th of ju ly 
I 733’ born at Frasershurgh, a small town in the county of Aberdeen, North Britain. His descent was honourable, being, through his father, from the Ramsays of Melrose in Banffshire, and through his mother, from the Ogilvies of Purie in Angus. his parents were of characters the most respectable, but in circumstances by no means affluent. From his earliest years he discovered a serious dispositson, and a strong thirst for knowledge; and after passing through the course of a scotch grammar sehool education, he was inclined to pursue the studies requisite to fit him for the profession of a clergyman; an inclination with which the wishes of his mother, a woman of eminent piety, powerfully concurred. several circumstances, however, conspired to divert him for a time from his favourite pursuit. 
He was educated in the episcopal persuasion; and ha ving been unhappy enough to lose his father while yet very young, he found, upon his advancing towards the state of manhood, that the joint fortunes of himself and.. 
