to run along the surface. "water rails (fays Buffon) are seen near the perennial fountains during the greatest. part of the winter, yet like the land rails they have their regular migrations. They pass Malta in the spring and au tumn. The Viseount de Querhoent law some 50 leagues off the coasts of Portugal on the 17th of April. They were so fatigued, that they suffered themselves to be caught by the hand a). Gmelin found these birds in the countries watered, by the Don., Belon calls them 
black rails, 
and says they are everywhere known, and that the species is more numerous than the red rail, or land rail. * The flesh of the water rail is not fo delicate as that of the land rail, and has even a marshy taste, nearly like that of the gallinule. It continues the whole year in England.” 
2. The porzana, or gallinule, is not very frequent in Great Britain, and is said to be migratory. Inhabits the sides of small streams, concealing itself among the bushes. Its length is nine inches; its breadth, 15; its weight, four ounces five drachms. *1 lie head is brown, spotted with black; the neck a deep olive, spot ted with white : the feathers of the back are black next their shafts, then olive coloured, and edged with white; the fcapulars are olive, finely marked with two small white spots on each web : the legs of a yellowish green. " Its habits (fays Buffon) wild, its instinct stupid, the porzana is unsnsceptible of education, nor is even ca pable of being tamed, we raffed one, however, which lived a whole summer on crumbs of bread and hemp seed; when by itself, lt kept constantly in a large bowl of V ater; but if a person entered the closet where it was shut, it ran to conceal itself in a small dark corner, without vent ing cries or murmurs, lu the state of liberty, howevel, it has a sharp piercing voice, much like the scieam. of a young bird of prey; and though it has no propensity to society, as soon as one cries, another repeats the sound, which is thus conveyed through all the left in the district. Like all the rails, it is so obstinately averse to rise, that the sportsman often seizes it with his hand, 
or 
sells it with a stick. lf it sinds a bush in lts retreat, it climbs upon it, and from the top of its asylum beholds the dogs brushing along in fault : this habit is common to it and to the water rail. It dlves, swims, and even swims under water, when hard pushed. 
"These birds disappear in the depth of winter, but re turn early in the sprmg, and even in the month of fe bruary they are common m some provmces of 1 rance and Italy. Ί heir flesh is delicate, and much esteemed. : those, in particular, which are caught In the 1 ice fields in Piedmont are very fat, and of an exquisite flavour.” 
3. The crex, crake, or corn crek, has been supposed by some to be the same with the water raff, and that it differs only by a change of colour at a certain season of the year : this error is owing to inattention to their characters and nature, both which differ entirely. The bill of tstis species is short, strong, and thick; formed exactly like that of the water hen, and makes a generi cal distinction. It never frequents watery places; but is always found among corn, grass, broom, or furze. It quits the kingdom before winter; but the water iail endures 
our sharpest seasons. They agree in them aver sion to flight; and the legs, which are remarkably long for the size of the bird, hang down whilst they are on the wing; they trust their safety to their _ swiftness on foot, and seldom are sprung a second time but with great difficulty. The land rail lays from 12 to 20 eggs, a dull white colour, marked with a few yellow.spots; notwithstanding this, they are very numerous in this kingdom. 1 heir note is very singular; and like the quail, it is decoyed into a net by the imitation of its cry, 
crek crek ere I, 
by rubbing hard the blade of a kmse on an indented bone. Most of the names given in different languages to this bird 'are evidently formed to imitate this singular cry. Hence Turner and some other naturalists have supposed it to be the crex of the ancients; but that term appears to have been applied by the ancients to other birds. Philus gives the crex the epithet of or 
fiuggish wmged, 
which would 
indeed fuit the land rail. Aristophanes represents it as migrating from Libya: Aristotle says that it is quand some, which may leave been attributed to it from the analogy to the quaff; but he adds, that the crex îeeks to destroy the nests of the blackbird, which cannot apply to the rail, since it never inhabits the woods. still less is the crex of Herodotus 
a 
rail, for he compares its size to that of the ibis, which is ten times larger. The avoset, too, and the teal, have sometimes the cry 
crex, crex : 
and the bird which Belon heard repeating that cry on the banks of the Nile is, according to his account, a species of godwit. Thus the sound represented by the word 
crex, 
belongmg to several species, is not fufficlently precise to distinguish the land rail. 
They are in greatest plenty in Anglesea, where they appear about the 20th of April, supposed to pass over from Ireland, where they abound; at their first ariival it is common to shoot seven or eight in a morning. They are found in most of the Hebrides, and the Orkneys. On their arrival they are very lean, weighing only six ounces; but before they leave this island, grow so fat as to weigh above eight. The feathers on the crown of the head and hind part of the neck are black, edged with bay colour : the coverts of the wings of the same colour, but not spotted; the tail is short, and of a deep bay : the belly white; the legs ash coloured. 
RALPH (James), a late ingenious historical and political writer, was born, we know not when or where, being sirst known as a sehoolmaster in Philadelphia in North America. He came to England about the beginning of the rtlgn of George I. and wrote some things in the dramatic way, which were not received with great applause; but though he dld not succeed as a poet, he was a very ingenious prose writer. He wrote A History of England, commencing with the stuarts, which is much esteemed; as were his political essays and pamphlets, some of which were looked upon as master pleces» His last publication, The Cafe of Authors by Profession, is an excellent and entertaining performance. He died in 1762. 
RAM,, in zoology. see Ovis. 
Battering RAM, 
111 antiquity, a mlhfary engine used 
a) 
‘ I tried (says M. de Querhoent) to raise some: they thrived wonderfully at sirst, but after a sort -- niuht s confinement their long grew paralytic, and the birds could only crawl on them knees; at last they expired.’ Gesner says, that having long fed one, he found it to be peevish and quarrelsome. 
