Rut we cannot give an equally favourable account of its influence on the sciences. There was little in that system that could contribute to call forth reason. W may grant indeed, that if reason can be so shocked with absurdity as to be roused to a more vigorous exertion of her powers, and a more determined assertion of her rights in consequence of surveying it; in that ease this system of mythology might be favourable to the exer çife aud improvement of reason; not otherwise. 
The connexion of paganism with morality was too imperfect sor it to produce any very important effects on the morals of its votaries. sacrifices and prayers, and temples and sestivals, not purity of heart and integrity of life, were the means prescribed for propitia ting tile favour of the deities adored by the Pagans. There were other means, too, besides true heroism and patriotism, of gaining admissjon into the Elysian fields, or obtaining a seat in the council of the gods. xeno phon, in one of the most beautiful parts of his Memoirs of socrates, reprefeuts Hercules wooed by Virtue and Pleasure in two fair female forms, and deliberating with much anxiety which of the two he should prefer. But this is the fiction of a philosopher desirous to improve the fables of antiquity in such a way as to render them truly useful. Hercules does not appear, from though tales which are told us of his adventures, to have been at any such pains in choosing his way of life. He was received into the palace of Jove, without having occa sion to plead that he had through life been the faithful follower of that goddesa to whom the philosopher makes him give the preference; his being the son of Jove, and his wild adventures, were sufficient without any other merits to gain him that honour. The same may be said concerning many of the other demigods and heroes who were advanced to heaven, or conveyed to the bless full fields of Elysium. And whatever might be the good effects of the religion of Greece and Rome in 
general 
upon the civil and political establishments, and in some few instances on the manners of the people, yet still it must be acknowledged to have been but ill calculated to impress the heart with such principles as might in all circumstances direct to a firm, uniform, tenor of virtuous conduct. 
But after what has been said on the character of this religion elsewhere (see Polytheism), and in the second part of this article, we cannot without repeti tion enlarge farther on it here. Of the Jewish religion, however, we have as yet said little, having on purpose reserved to this place whatever we mean to in troduce under the article, concerning its influence on society. 
3d, when we take a general view of the circumstances in which the Jewish religion was established, the effects which it produced on the character and fortune of the nation, the rites and ceremonies which it enjoined, and the singular political institutions to which it gave a sanction, it may perhaps appear hard to deter mine, whether it were upon the whole more or 
less 
beneficial to society than the polytheism of the Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans. But 
if 
such be the judge ment which preconceived prejudices, or an hasty and careless view, have induced some to form of this celebra ted system; there are others who, with equal keenness, and sounder reasoning, maintain, that 
it 
was happily 
calculated, not only to accomplish the great isesign 
of 
preparing 
the way 
far 
the promulgation of the Gospel 
but likewise to render the Jews a more refined and virtuous people, and a better regulated community, than any neighbouring nation. ' In the sirst place, the attributes of the Deity were very clearly exhibited to the Jews in the establishment of their religion. The miracles by which he delivered them from servstude, and conducted them out of Egypt, were striking demonstrations of his power; that condeseension with which he forgave their repeated acta of perverseness und rebel lion, was a most convincing proof of his benevolence; and thc impartiality with which the observance and thc violation of his law's were rewarded and punished, even in the present life, might well convince them of his justice. A part of the laws which he dictated to Moses are of eternal and universal obligation; others of them were local and particular, suited to the character of the Jews, and their circumstances in the land of Canaan. The Jewish code, taken altogether, is not to be considered as a complete system of religion, or laws 
cal 
culated for all countries and all ages of society. When we consider the expediency of this system, we must take care not to overlook the design sor which the Jews are said to have been separated from other nations, the cir cumstances in which they had lived in Egypt, the eu stoms and manners which they had contracted by their intercourse with the natives of that country, the manner in which they were to acquire to themseives settle ments by extirpating the nations of Canaan, the rank which they were to hold among the nations of syria and the adjacent countries, together with the difficulty of restraining a people so little civilised and enlightened from the idolatrous worship which prevailed among their neighbours : All these circumstances were certainly to be taken into account j and had the legissator of the Jews not attended to them, his institutions must have remained in force only for a short period; nor could they have produced any lastsug effects on the character of the nation, with a due attention to these circumstances, let us descend to an examination of particulars. 
Although in every religion or superstitson that has prevailed through the world, we find one part of its in stitutions to consist in the enjoining of certain sestivals to be celebrated by relaxation from labour, and the performance of certain ceremonies in honour of the gods; yet in none, or almost none besides the Jewish, do we find every seventh day ordained to be regularly kept holy. One great end which the iegislator of the Jews had in view in the institution of the sabbath was, to impress them with a belief that God was the maker of the universe. In the early ages of the world a great part of mankind imagined the stars, the sun, the moon, and the other planets, to be eternal, and consequently objects highly worthy of adoration. To convince the Israelites of the absurdity of this belief, and prevent them from adopting that idolatry, Moses taught them, that those conspicuous objects which the Gentile nations regarded as eternal, and endowed with divine power and intelligence, were created by the hand of 
Ged 
j who, after bringing all things out of nothing, and giving them form, order, and harmony, in the space of 
six 
days, rested on the seventh from all his works. Various passages in the 
Osd 
Testament concur to show, 
that this 
was one great end of the uistitution of the 
