3 . 275i^(i-, V or an 
element; 
and then, so far as respected its qualities, especially its forms, it was subject to changes almost perpetual. The gods themselves and the souls of men were in this system only modifications of matter f). Man was composed of their four elements, Fire, Air, water, and Earth; and upon dissolution, every part returned to the element from which it had come, as the water of a vessel swimming in the sea unites with the ocean when the vessel is broken. This system, it is plain, cannct possibly admit of any separate confciousuefs of existence G). The same may be foid of the systems of Democrates and Epicurus, and ail those who undertook to explain tilings upon physical principles LITHE chief merit of the physical systems appears to be this : Absurd as they were, it would seem from the whimsical and the almost childish reasoning of Lucretius, that they had a tendency to lead mankind from extravagant hypotheses to some thing that was similar to observatson, 
what Aristotle thought of the separate existence of the soul after death is not very certain. The soul he calls an e»7sxe^iia; and if the reader can divine the meaning of the word, he perhaps can divine the meaning of the 
stagyrite, 
and will then b.c. a better diviner than we. At other times he says, that the soul is something divine; that it resembles the element of the stars; that it is something of a fiery nature; that it is the vicegerent ftf God in the body; and that the acuteness of the senses, the powers of the intellect, with the various kinds of appetites, and passions, depend entirely on the qualities of the blood I), 
Another opinion of very old date was that of the late ingenious Mr Hunter. According to him, the living principle resides in the blood. This opinion, which is mentioned by Moses, was adopted by Critias and others of the ancients. Harvey likewise embraced it. But Mr Hunter, who always wished to be thought an original, inclines to stand at the head of the opinion, and sup ports. it by experiments similar to those of the famed Taliacotius in mending noses. should any of our readers wish to extract the foul’s immortality from such an opinion, we must refer them to the many resources of ingenuity, sophistry, and logic. 
Among the Jews, the belief of a future and separate existence for a long time was deemed no essential article of their creed. some thought that the soul was a spark in the moving 
cf 
the heart; some imagmed 
that lt was 
the breath, and that upon the dissolution of the body it naturally vanished into soft air. The sadducees denied the existence of either angel or spirit. Many be lieved the doctrine of ghosts, and were accustomed to invoke them at the grave. It is hence that we hear the prophets complaining that they were seeking from the living God unto dead men. some imagined that there was a preexistence of souls; and, in the case of a blind man, asked our saviour, whether the man or his parents had sinned that he was born blind? Others, inclined to a revolution, of soul and body, and thought that our saviour was either Elias or one of the old prophets returned; and a great many new modelled.! their opinion of the foul’s immortality according to certain passages in scripture. she inspired mother of samuel had said, " The Lordscilleth and maketh alive: he bringeth down to the grave, and bringeth up.” Isaiah bad exclaimed, " Thy dead shall live; together with my dead body shall they arise: : and sing, ye that dwell in the dust; for thy dew is as the dew of herbs,, and the earth shali cast out the dead.” Daniel had de clared, that many of them that sseep in the dust of the earth shall awake to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. In the vision of the valley, of dry bones, Ezekiel had seen that " at the word of the Lord” the bones came together, bone to his bone, the sinews and the ssesh came upon them, and the skin covered them above, and the breath came into the bodies, and they lived, and. stood upon their feet. And a. passage of Job led them to suppose.. at some distant and future period a particular time, which wap called 
the laß 
or the 
latter day, 
was appointed by heaven sor the general resurrection of all those who are sseeping in their graves. “I know ( says Job) my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth; and' though aster my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall' I see God.” 
whether these passages were fairly interpreted agreeably to their true and original meaning, it is not here our business to inquire. It is sufficient for us to ob serve, that from them many of the Jews inferred the reality of a general resurrection KIN this persuasion, Martha, speaking of her brother Lazarus, says to our Lord, " I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day.” This resurrection appears 
F) The of the stoics appears to be the same with the 
ii 
of the Chinesm 
g) Yet without regarding the inconsistency, many of the stoics believed?, that the soul continued separate long after death; though all in general seemed to deny a suture state of rewards and punishments. 
hin his 
Phyßcal Cosmogony, 
Plato differed but little from the stoics; but he had anotlrer sort of cosmogony, in which all things appear to have sprung from, and to be almost wholly composed of, metaphysical entities, as ideas of forms, numbers, and mathematical figures. These kinds of notions were common both to him and pythagoras;; were originally borrowed srom Egypt, where calculation and geometry were half deified. see Platonism. 
I) The immortal Harvey has collected these different opinions of the stagyrite in Exercit. 52·. 
De Generatione Animalium. 
@@@(κ) At present some are for allowing only those of their own nation to share in the benefits of this resurrection;; some are not even for allowing them, except they be men of piety and virtue. To render this resurrection probable, the rabbis say, with some of the Muslims, that there is a certain bone in the body which resists putrefaction, and serves as a seed for the next body, what that bone is, is of no great moment, as any bone, we believe, in the skeleton will answer the purpose equally well, with respect to the manner of tiffs resurrection, the learned Body has quoted several opinions of the Jews, and, among others, that of the Chai 
