ali its tones. But from what was said above, of the difference between reading and speaking, it follows, that these signs of the emotions should be less strongly characterised in the former article than in the latter. Again, as several of these tones of expression are in themselves agreeable to the mind, and raise in us agree able emotions (as those of 
pity, benevolence, 
or whatever indicates 
happiness, 
and 
goodness 
of heart), and others disagreeable (as those of a 
boisterous, malevolent, 
and 
depraved 
nature, cit farther appears, since reading is an art 
improving 
and not 
imitating 
nature, that, in what ever degree we abate the expressions of the tones above alluded to in the sirst case, it would be eligible to make a greater abatement in the latter. But as to the quantities and proportional magnitudes of these abate ments, they, like many other particulars of the same nature, must be left solely to the taste and judgement of the reader. 
To add one more remark, which may be of service on more accounts than in suggesting another reason for the doctrine above. Let it be remembered, that tho’ in order to acquit himself agreeably in this article of expression, it will be necessary every reader should 
fiel 
his subject as well as 
understand 
it; yet, that he may preserve a proper ease and masterliness of delivery, it is also necessary he should guard against discovering too much emotion and perturbation. 
From this reasoning we deduce the following rule, for the tones which indicate the passions and emotions" 
"reading, let all your tones of expression be bor rowed from those of common speech, but something more faintly characterised. Let those tones which sig nify any disagreeable passion of the mind, be still more faint than those which indicate their contrary; and pre serve yourself so far from being affected with the sub ject, as to be able to proceed through it with that peculiar kind of ease and masterliness, which has its charms in this as well as every other art.” 
we shali conclude this section with the following ob servation, which relates to speaking as well as reading, when words fall in our way, whose " sounds seem an echo to the sense, ” as 
squirr, buzz, hum, rattle, hifiofar, 
c. we ought not to pronounce them in such a manner as to heighten the imitation, except in light and ludicrous subjects. For instance, they should not in any other case be founded 
squir.r.r — buzz.z.z — hum.m.m — r.r.rattle, 
con the contrary, when the imitation lies in the 
movement, 
or 
stow andstructure of a whole passage 
(which frequently happens in poetry), the delivery may always be allowed to give a heightening to it with the greatest propriety; as in the following instances, out of a number more which every experienced reader will .quickly recollect. 
In these deep solitudes and awful cells, 
Where heav' nlypenstve Contemplation dwells,. 
And ever rnufing Melancholy reigns— — 
Eloisa to Abelard. 
with easy course 
The vessels glide, unless their speed be stopp’d 
dead calms, that oft He on thefistmoothfias. 
Dyer's Fleece. 
softly sweet in Lydian measure, 
soon he sooth’d her fiul to pleasure. 
Dryden's Ode on st Cecilia's day. 
still gathering force it smokes, and, urg’d amain, whirls, leaps, and 
thunders down impetuous to the plain. 
Pope's Iliad, 
B. 13. For who to dumb forgetfulness a prey, 
This pleasing anxious being ere resigned, 
Left the warm precincts of the cheerful day, 
Nor cast 
one longing lingering look behind? 
Grey's Elegy. 
2. 
Besides the particular tones and modifications of voice above deseribed, which always accompany and express our inward agitations, nature has in these cases endowed us with another language, which, instead of the ear, addresses itself to the eye, thereby giving the communications of the heart a double advantage over those of the understanding, and 
us 
a double chance to preserve so inestirnable a blessing. This language is what arises from the different, almost involuntary movements and configurations of the face and body in our emotions and passions, and which, like that' of tones, every one is formed to understand by a kind of intuition. 
when men are in any violent agitation of mind, this cooperating 
expression 
(as it is called) of face and 
gesture 
is very strongly marked, and totally free from the mixture of anything which has a regard to gracesul ness, or what appearance they may make in the eyes of others. But in ordinary conversation, and where the emotions are not so warm, fashionable people are perpe tually insinuating, into their countenance and action, whatever they imagine will add to the ease and elegance of their deportment, or impress on the spectator an idea of their amiableness and breeding. Now, though the abovementioned natural organical signs of the emotions should accompany everything spoken, yet from what was observed in the introductory part of this article (like the tones we have just treated upon), they should in reading he much less strongly expressed, and those suffer the greatest diminution that are in themseives the most ungainly. And as it was in the last section re commended tfl the reader to preserve himself as far from being affected in all passionate subjects as to be able to keep a temperate command over the various affections of the voice, c. so under the sanction of this subor dinate feeling he may accompany his delivery more frequently with any easy action or change of face, which will contribute to set off his manner, and make it agree able on the principles of art. 
As these calm decorations of action (as we may call them) are not altogether natural, bat have their rise from a kind of inttitution, they must be modelled by the practises of the polite. And though mankind differ from one another scarce more in any particular than in that of talents for adopting the graceful actions of the body, and hence nothing determinate can be said of their nature and frequency, yet even those, most happily calculated to acquit themselves well in their use, might profit by considering that it is better greatly to abridge the display, than to over do it ever so little; For the peculiar modesty of deportment with which the inhabitants of this kingdom are endowed, makes us in common endeavour to fuppress many signs of an agitated mind; and in such cases the bodily ones in particular are very sparingly used. we have also a natural and rooted dislikc to any kind of affectation; and to no 
