at 
souy yards distance; it reached it at one ieap, and 
stuck closcty to it. At night 
these 
frogs make an incessant chirping ant! leap from spray to spray in search of insects. This species is common to America and 
the 
warmer parts of Europe. 
i o. The land frog of Csateshy has much the appearance of a toad; above it is grey or brown, spottecs with dusky; below white, faintly spotted; the irides are red; and the legs short. They frequent the highlands, and are seen most frequently in wet weather and in the hot test time of the day : they leap, feed on insects, parti cularly the sire ssy and ant. sometimes the Americans bake and reduce this species to powder, which, mixed with orrice root, is taken as a cure for a tympany. 
11. The cinereous frog has a gibbous, cinereous, and smooth back; the belly is yellow and granulated : on each side, from the nose to the rump, there is a white line; and there is the same on the outside of the thighs and legs; the toes are bullated at their ends. They inhabit Carolina. 
RANAI, one of the sandwich issands discovered by Captain Cooke, is about nine miles distant from Mowee and Morotoi, and is situated to the southwest of the passage between those two isses. The country towards the south is elevated and craggy; but the other parts of the issand had a better appearance, and seemed to be well inhabited. It abounds in roots, such as sweet potatoes, 
taro, 
and yams; but produces very few plan tains and breadfruit trees. The south point of Ranai is in the latitude of 20° 4.6' north, and in the longitude of 203° 8 east. 
RANCID, denotes a fatty snbstance that is become rank or musty, or that has contracted an ill smell by being kept close. 
RANDIA, in botany : A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the pentandria class of plants; and 
in 
the natural method ranking with those of which the order is doubtful. The calyx is monophylious; the corolla salver shaped; the berry unilocular, with a cap sular rind. There are two species, viz. the mitis and aculeata. 
RANDOLPH (Thomas), an eminent English poet in the 17th century, was born in Northampton shire 1605. He was educated at westminfter and Cambridge, and very early distinguished for his excellent genius; for at about nine or ten years of age he wrote the History of the Incarnation sour saviour in verse. His subsequent writings eslablished his character, and gained him the esteem and sriendship of some of the greatest men of that age, particularly of Ben Johnson, who adopted him •one of his sons in the muses. He died in 163-·, and was honourably interred. He wrote, 1. .The Muses looking-glass, a comedy. 2. 
Amyntas, or the Impossible Dowry, a 
pastoral, acted before the king and queen. 3. Aristippus, or the Jovial Philosopher. 4. The con ceited Pedlar. 5. The Jealous Lovers, a comedy. 6. Hey sor Honesty, down with Knavery, a comedy; 
and several 
poems. 
RANDOM shot, in gunnery, is 
a 
shot made when the muzzle of a gun is raised above the horizontal line, and is not designed to shoot directly or pointblank. 
The utmost random of any piece is about ten times as far as the bullet will go pointblank. The bullet will go farthest when the piece is mounted to about 45° above the level range. see Gunnery and pr.o jectiles. 
RANGE, in gunnery, the path of a bullet, or the line it describes from the mouth of the piece to the point where it lodges. If the piece lie in a line parallel to the horizon, it is called the 
right 
or 
level range : 
if it be mounted to 45% it is said to have the 
utrmst range; 
all others between 00 and 45° are called the 
intermediate ranges. -, 
RANGER, a sworn officer of a forest, appointed by the king’s letters patent; whose business is to walk through his charge, to drive hack the doer out of the purlieus, c. and to present all trespasses within his. ju risdiction at the next forest court. 
RANK, the order or place affigneda person suitable to his quality or merit. 
Rank, is a straight line made by the soldiers of 
a 
battalion or squadron, drawn up side by side; this order was established for the marches, and for regulating the different bodies of troops and officers which com pose an army. 
Rank and Precedence, 
in the army and navy, are as follow : 
Engineers Rank. 
Chief, as colonel; director, as lieutenant-colonel; fub director, as major; engineer in ordinary, as captain; engineer extraordinary, as captain lieutenant; sub engineer, as lieutenant; practitioner engineer, as ensign. 
Navy Rank. 
Admiral, or commander in chief of his majelty’s fleet, has the rank of a sield marshal; admirals, with their flags on the main top· masthead, rank with generals of horse and foot; vice admirals, with lieutenant generals; rear admirals, as major-generals commodores, with broad pendants, as brigadier gene rals; captains of post ships," after three years from the date of their sirst commission, as colonels; other cap tains, as commanding post ships, as lieutenant colonels 5. captains, not taking post, as majors ·, lieutenants, as captains. 
