son why in serene weather the atmospherical electricity is always strongest, and rather more so in the night than in the day. 
6. From these considerations, we see an evident rea son why there must commonly be a difference between the electricity of the earth and that of the atmo sphere, excepting when an earthquake is about to en sue. The consequence of this must be, that as the action of the solar light continues to bring down the electric matter, and the earth continues to discharge an equal quantity of it into the atmosphere, some part of the atmosphere must at last become overloaded with it, and attempt to throw it back into the earth. This attempt will be vain, until a vent is found for the electricity at some other place; and as soon as this happens, the electrified atmosphere begins to throw off its superfluous electricity, and the earth to receive it. As the atmosphere itself is a bad conductor, and the more so the drier it is, the electric matter attacks the small aqueous particles which are detained in it by means of the latent heat. These being unable to bear the im petus of the fluid, throw out their latent heat, which easily escapes, and thus makes a kind of vacuum in the electrified part of the atmosphere. The conse quences of this are, that the aqueous particles being driven together in large quantity, at last become vi sible, and the sky is covered with clouds; at the same time a wind blows against these clouds, and, if there is 
no 
resistance in the atmosphere, will drive them away. 
7. 
But if the atmosphere all round the cloud is ex ceedingly electrified, and the earth is in no condition to receive the superfluous fluid excepting in that place which is directly under the cloud, then the whole electricity of the atmosphere for a vast way round will tend to that part only, and the cloud will be electrified to 
an 
extreme degree. A wind will now blow against the cloud from all quarters, more and more of the vapour will be extricated from the air by the electric matter, and the cloud will become darker and thicker, at the same time that it is' in a manner stationary, as being acted upon by opposite winds; though its size is enlarged with great rapidity by the continual supplies of vapour brought by the winds. 
8. 
The vapours which were formerly suspended in visibly by means of the latent heat are now suspended visibly by the electric fluid, which will not let them" fall to the earth, until it is in 
a 
condition to receive the electric matter descending with the rain. — It is easy to see, however, that thus everything is prepared for a violent storm of thunder and lightning as well as rain. The sursace of the earth becomes electrified from the atmosphere : but when this has con tinued for soine time, a zone of earth considerably below the surface acquires an electricity opposite to that of the clouds and atmosphere; of consequence the elec tricity in the cloud being violently pressed on all sides, will at last burst out towards that zone where the re sistance is Ieast, as explained under the article lightning— — vapours now having lost that which sup ported them, will fall down in rain, if there is not a sufficient quantity of electric matter to keep them in the same state in which they were before : but if this happens to be the cafe, the cloud will instantly be charged again, while little or no rain will fall; and 
hence very violent thunder some times takes place without 
any rain at all, or such as is quite inconsiderable 
in 
quantity. 
9. when the electricity is less violent, the rain will descend in vast quantity, especially after every flail of lightning; and great quantities of electric matter will thus be conveyed to the earth, insomuch that sometimes the drops have been observed to shine as if they were on fire, which has given occasion to the reports of Eery rain having fallen on certain occasions. If the quantity of electric matter is smaller, so that the rain can convey it all gradually to the ground, there will be rain without any thunder; and the greater the quantity of electricity the more violent will be the rain. 
From this account of the causes of rain, we may see the reason why in warm climates the rains are excessive, and for the most part accompanied with thunder;; there the electricity of the atmosphere is im mensely greater than it is with us. we may alio see why in certain places, according to the situation of mountains, seas, c. the rains will be greater than in others, and likewise why some parts of the world are exempted from rain altogether; but as a particular dis cussion of these would necessarily include an explana tion of the causes and phenomena of Thunder, we shall for this reason refer the whole to be treated of under that article. 
whether this theory be just, however, it would be too <· assuming in us to say. It may admit of dispute, for we must grant that in the very best systems, though an occur rence so frequent, the theory of rain is but very imperfectly understood. Dr James Hutton, Fellow of the Royal society of Edinburgh, whose speculations are always ingenious, though generally extraordinary, and much out of the common way, gives us a new theory of rain in the sirst volume of the Transactions of that society. It is well known that atmospheric air is capable of dissolving, with a certain degree of heat, a gi ven quantity of water. The Doctor ascertains the ra tio of the dissolving power of air, in relation to water, in different degrees of heat; and shows, that by mixing a portion of transparent humid warm air with a portion of cold air, the mixture becomes opaque, and part of the water will be precipitated; or, in other words, the va pour yfill be condensed into rain. The ratio which he states, however, does not appear to us to be supported by experience. whether the electricity of the air changes in consequence of its depositing the water dis solved in it, or the change is a cause of this depositlon, must remain uncertain; but, in either view, there must be an agent different from heat and cold, since the changes in these respects do not in other operations change the state of electricity. Dr Hutton supposes that heat and solution do not increase by equal increments; but that, in reality, if heat be supposed to in crease by equal increments along a straight line, solution will be expressed by ordinates to a curve whose convex side is turned towards that line. That the power of solution is not increased in the same ratio with heat, is, however, hypothetical, except when we rise pretty high in the seal, when its proportional increase is a littler doubtful; and it is not, in this paper, supported by ex periment. The condensation of the breath in air is not an observation in point, except in air already saturated with vapour. It can amount, in any view, to no more 
than 
this, 
that 
to 
render it visible, the heat 
must be di 
