with a 
death’s head, surrounded by 
a laurel wreath 
on one cuff, and a sword on the other; with the motto, " Conquer or die.” The king was also surrounded by crowds 
of 
nonjuring priests and other diffassected persons. Thus, that popular jealousy which in every period of the revolution has strikingly marked the French character, was kept on the alarm. On the 18th of a pril, therefore, when the royal Family was preparing to go to st Cloud to pafs some days, a report was instant ly spread that the king was about to fly from the country. The carriages were immediately surrounded by •people. Lafayette drew out the national guard, but they refused to act. 
"WC 
know (exclaimed they) that we are violating the laws, but the safety of our country is the sirst law.” The King instantly went to the assembly, and with much spirit complained of the insult. He was answered respectsully by the president, and continued bis journey. As the royal family had enjoyed a considerable degree of freedom for some time past, which was demonstrated by the unsuccessful oppo sition made to this journey — the present opportunity was embraced for intimating to foreign courts his ac ceptance of the constitution; and ali obnoxious persons were dismissed from about his person. The breach of diseipline on the part of the national guard on this occasion was so much resented by Lafayette, that he resigned his command. Paris was thrown into consternation; and it was not till after the most universal solicitation that he was prevailed upon to resume his 
office. 
About this time M. de Bouille, to whom the protection of the frontiers was entrusted, was employing, as it is now said, every means in his power to render the country defenceless. The garrisons were left unprovided; diffunion was spread among the national troops; they were removed srom the frontiers, and their place was occupied by foreigners, wherever it could be done. The emigrants abroad, and their friends at home, were lying in wait for an opportunity of revolt; — when suddenly, on the 2 ist of June, it was announced from the Thuilleries, that the king, the queen, the dauphin, with monsieur and madame, had quitted the palace and the capital, without leaving any information of their inten tion or their route. The emotion excited by this news among the multitude was a mixture of consternation and rage. The national assembly, however, acted with much coolness. They instantly took upon themselves the government, and decreed their sittings permanent. They sent messengers, at the same time, in all directions, to attempt to lay hold of the fugitives. These had taken different routs. Monsieur and madame arrived sasely at Brussels on the 23d. The king, queen, and their children, when they came to a considerable distance from the capital, were furnished by Bouille with a guard of dragoons, under pretencc of protecting treasure for the pay of the troops. At the distance of 156 miles, and when only a few leagues from the frontiers, they were arrested at st Menehould by the postmaster, M. Drouet, formerly a dragoon in the regiment of Condé. At half past seven o’clock in the evening the carriages stopped to change horses at his house; he thought he recollected the queen, and ima gined that the king’s face resembled the impressions stamped upon assignats. The eseort of dragoons increased 
the suspicion. He suffered them to depait at 
U o'clock without notice; hut taking a çmnpmiitm 
with him, he went by a shorter road to Varenneai with the assistance of the postmaster there he gave the alarm, and overturned a carriage on the bridge, which detained the royal travellers till the national guard of the place had assembled, and the arrest was effected without bloodshed. They were brought back to pa ris by a deputation from the assembly. At his depar ture, the king had imprudently left behind him a me morial, in which he declared, that he never had thought any sacrifice too great for the restoration of order; but that the destruction of the kingdom, and the triumph of anarchy, being the only reward of all his efforts, he thought it necessary to depart from it. He then takes a review of the faults of the new constitution, the grievances he has suffered; and protests against everything that he had been compelled to do during his cap tivity. 
Different parties were very differently affected by this ill conducted and unfortunate flight of the King. A small republican party had already begun to appear, and during the king’s absence, attempts were made to induce the public at large to consider the royal au thority as no necessary part of a free constitution. But the minds of men were by no means prepared for the re ception of this new doctrine. The idea, however, having been thus publicly proposed, left some impressions, which in time contributed to give rise to important events. By sar the greater number of leading men, however, were at present convinced, that it was impossible to conduct a great empire like France, well and pro sperously, without the assistance of an hereditary chief. They therefore determined to pass over the affair with as much silence as possible, and to hasten the period when their new constitution should be complete. But there is reason to believe, that this journey was at the long run highly instrumental in producing very fatal effects to the personal safety of the monarch. 
His flight seemed a signal for emigration. Many of the aristocratic party sent in resignations of their seats in the national assembly. Troops were levied on the frontiers in the king’s name; who took care, however, to disavow any connexion with such a procedure. Bouille emigrated, and afterwards sent to the assembly a furious threatening letter : " You shall answer (fays he) sor the lives of the king and of the queen to all the monarchs of the universe. Touch but a single hair of their heads, and not one stone shall be left upon ano there in Paris. I know the roads. I will conduct the foreign armies. This letter is but the forerunner of the manifesto of the sovereigns of Europe.” 
A considerable calm throughout France followed these events, and it might be regarded as in a state of tranquillity. It contained, indeed, parties entertaining much animosity against each other, and many citizens had withdrawn to foreign countries; but the peace was not broken, and moderate men hoped that much prosperity would follow from the late agitations. But this calm was delusive; and in the midst of it those projects were formed which were afterwards to prove so fatal to the peace of France and of Europe. Towards the close of this summer, a convention took place at Pilnitz in saxony between the emperor Leopold and the king of Prussia. Its object was not known at the time, but it 
gradually came into view, and is now by many under 
