This active mînd, infus’d through all the space, 
Unites and mingles with the mighty mass : 
Hence men and beasts the breath of life obtain, 
And birds of air, and monsters of the main; 
The ethereal vigour is in all the same, 
And every soul is fill’d with equal flame; 
As much as earthy limbs, and gross aliay 
Of mortal members, subject to decay, 
Blunt not the beams of heaven and edge of day D). 
Dryden. 
Bessdes this hypothesis, that in some measure was common to others, Plato had an argument peculiarly his own. Happening to peep into the region of metaphysics, he was somewhat surprised on observing the ideas which we derive from reflection and confcioufness; and supposing that they could not have entered by the senses, he naturally, though not very justly, concluded, that we must have received them in some state of prior existence. 
As, according to him, the soul was eternal, as well as the matter which composed the body, and as their union was only temporary and accidental, he might have been satisfied that the death of the soul was not to be the consequence of their separation. But, somehow or other, satisfied he was not. He had recourse to a new argument. As the soul, he said, was an active principle, and a self moving, it did not depend for its life on another; and therefore would always continue to exist, though the body were reduced to the general mass out of which it was formed. see Metaphysics, Part III chap. IV 
whether Plato had borrowed any of bis doctrines from the eastern magi, we pretend not to say. ave on ly observe a striking similarity, in some respects, between his and theirs. In plato’s philosophy, the sun, moon, and stars, were animated beings, and a sort of divinities that originally had sprung from the great fountain of jieat.and light, and our earthly bodies a sort of dungeons in which our miserable souls are benighted and debased by desires, appetites, and passions. In the ma jgsan philosophy, the supreme Being was called 
oromas ■des; 
was the god of light, or was light itself, and re presented by Mithras, a subordinate divinity, and the same with the sun. Another deity of very great power was Arimanes, the god of darkness, who presided over matter, and was the origin of all evil (see 
Pölytheism). 
The ancient Gnbstscs, who derived their tenets from this source, believed, with Pythagoras and Plato, in 
a 
great number of subordinate genii; and said, that de miurgns, the god of matter and the soul or spirit of this world, had contrived the bodies of men and brutes; and in the former particularly, as in fo many prisons, had confined 
a 
number of celestial spirits, that by exposing them to the low desires of appetite and passion, he might seduce them from their allegiance to the God of light, and render them more submiffive to himself. From these prisons the supreme Being was continually making attempts to rescue them; and in the mean time was frequently sending divine messengers to en lighten and instruct them, and to render them capable of returning to the regions of light and happiness, to which they had belonged e). 
'She stoics attempted to simpiify this system, which appears anciently to have pervaded Egypt and the east, and which would seem to be no more than varioussy modified by Orpheus, Pythagoras, Plato, and others of the more northerly and western nations. None of them allowed a creation out of nothing; and the shapingand modelling of matter into forms was varioussy explained, according as they happened to be most addicted to superstition, to morals, or to physics. some ascribed these operations to ancient Time, Chaos, and Darkness, and explained the future changes in nature by the genealo gies of these deities; some observing attraction and repulsion, or at least a sort of agreement and discor dance among bodies, were inclined to ascribe them to Friendship and Hatred, or Love and Antipathy; some observing, that while one body rose another descended, made Levity and Gravity primary agents; and some taking notice that living bodies sprung from corruption, were disposed to confer the same powers on Moisture and Heat. 
The physscal hypotheses were what had most charms sor the stoics. From their system immaterial beings were openly excluded; all things were regulated by physscal laws or inexorable sat; and all things origi nated in the To 'Ey or the 
Firjl One, 
which was probably suggested by the o f Pythagoras. This L o 'Ev ap pears to have been a 
materia prima 
devoid of all the qualities of body. In their language it was an Αρλ” or 
Jirfl principle, 
not subject to change, when it was in vested with the properties of body, it then became 
d) 
The general doctrine, as delivered here in these verses of Virgil, is the same with that not only öf pytha goras, but of the stoics. 
e) 
Plato made the stars the native ressdence of inferior souls; and when these were thoroughly purified below, returned them home again : and therefore, says Virgil, alluding to his doctrine, 
-- - — ■ — — some have taught 
That bees have portions of ethereal thought, 
endu’d with particles of heav’nly fires; 
For God the whole created mass inspires : 
Thro’ heav’n, and earth, and ocean's depth, he throws His influence round, and kindles as he goes. 
Hence flocks, and herds, and men, and beasts, and fowls, with breath are quicken’d, and attract their souls : 
Hence take the forms his preference did ordain, 
And into him at length resolve again. 
No room is left for death, they mount the sky, 
And to thkir own congenial planets flÿ. 
Dryden, 
