would perhaps ere this time have been lost in oblivion. Individuals in private life seldom engage the attention of the historian; his object is to record the actions of princes, warriors, and statesmen. Had not the proses sors of Christianity in the. earlier ages of 
lts 
exlstence been exposed to persecutions, and unjust accusations srom which they were called on to vindicate themselves, we should be strangers to the names and virtues of saints and martyrs, and to the learning and endowments of the sirst apologists for Cliristianity. We cap therefore only trace the general influence of the msti tutions of Christianity on society. We cannot hope to make an accurate enumeration of particulars. In many of the countries in which it has been established, lt has produced a very favourable change on the circumstances of domestic life. Polygamy, a practice repugnant to. the will of our Creator (fee Polygamy), who has de clared his intentions in this instance in the plainest man ner, by causing nearly equal numbers of males and fe mal’es to be brought into tile world, was never com pletesp abolished but by Chnstianity. 
‘ The practice of divorce, too, though in some cases proper and even necessary, had been so much abused at the time of our saviour’s appearance in the world, that he found reason to declare it unlawful, unless m the cafe of adultery. The propriety and reasonableness of this prohibition will sufficiently appear, if we considei, that when divorcesscre easily obtained, both parties will often have nothing else in view at the penod of marnage than the dissolution of their nuptial engagements after a short cohabitation; the interests of the husband and the wife will almost always be separate; and the children of such a marriage are scarce likely to enjoy the cordial affection and tender watchful care of either parent. The linshand in fucli a case 
will 
naturally b.c. to his wife, not a friend and protector, but a tyrant; fear and deceit, not love, gratitude, or a sense of duty, will be the principles of the wife’s obedience. 
In another instance, likewise, Christianity has produced an happy changé on the circumstances of domestic life; it must be acknowledged to have contributed greatly to the abolition of ssavery, or at least to the mi tip ation of the rigour of servitude. The customs and laws of the Romans in relation to ssaves were cruel and severe. Masters were often so inhuman as to remove aged, sick, or infirm siaves, into an isiand in the Tiber, where they suffered them to perish without pity or as sistance. The greater part of the subjects of many of those republics which enjoyed the most liberty, groaned under tyrannical oppression; they were condemned to drag out a miserable existence in hard labour, under inhuman usage, and to be transferred like beasts from one master to another. The shardships of ssavery were eased, not by any particular precept of the Gospel, but by the o entle and humane spirit which breathed through the general tenor of the whole systdm of doctrines and precepts of which the Gospel consists. It must indeed be allowed, that a trade in ssaves is at present carried on by people who presume to call themselves Christians, and protected by the legislature of Christian states: but the spirit of the Christian code condemns the practice, and the true Christian will not engage in it. 
Partly by the direct and conspicuous, partly by the secret and unseen, influence of Chriisianity srnce its promulgation in 
the world, the hearts of men have been 
gradually softened; even barbarians have been formed to mildness and humanity; the influence of selfishnefs has been checked and restrained; and even war, amid all the pernicious improvements by which men have sought to render it more terrible, has assumed much more of the spirit of mildness and peace than ever entered into it during the reign of heathenism. 
if we review the history of mankind with a view to their political circumstances, we shall find, that by some means or other, it has happened, since the time when the Gospel was sirst preached, that both systems of legislature and forms of government have been raised to much greater perfection, at least in those parts of the world into which the religion of Jesus has made its way, and obtained an establishment. 
The popular government of the Romans, notwithstanding the multiplicity of their laws, and the imperfections of their political constitution, was, no doubt, happily enough adapted to promote the increase of the power and the extension of the empire of Rome. In Greece there were various republics, the wisdom and impartiality of whose laws have been highly celebrated. But we apprehend that there is a sufficient number of well authenticated facts to warrant us to affirm, that since Christianity has been propagated, and has had sufficient time to produce its full effect on alls, manners, and literature, even under governments the form of which might appear less favourable than tlm celebrated models of antiquity to the liberty and happmess of the people in general, these actually have been much better provided for than under the laws of Athens or sparta, or even of Rome in the days of the consuls. It is a just and happy observation of Montelquieu, who has attributed so much to the influence of climate and local circumstances, that “the mildness so frequently recom mended in the Gospel is incompatible with the despotic rage with which an arbitrary tyrant punishes lnssub jects, and exercises himself in cruelty. Tt is the Christian religion (says he) which, in spite of the extent of empire, and the influence of climate, has hindered de spotism from being established in Ethiopia, and has car ried into Africa the manners of Europe. The heir to the empire of Ethiopia enjoys a principality, and gives to other subjects an example of love and obedience — Not far from hence may be seen the Mahometan shut ting up the children of the king of sennaar, at whose death the councsl sends to murder them in favour of the prince who ascends the thione. Let us set before our eyes (continues that eloquent writer), in the third chapter of the 24th book of his spirit of Laws, on one hand the continual massacres of the kings and generals of the Greeks and Romans, and on the other the destruction of people and cities by the famous conquerors timur Beg and Jenghiz Kan, who ravaged Asia, and we shall perceive, that we owe to Christianity in 
government 
a certain political law, and in war a certain law of nations, which allows to the conquered the great 
advantages of liberty, laws, wealth, and always religion, when the conqueror is not blind to his own in terest.” 
These are the reflections of no common judge in this matter, but one who had long studied the history of nations, and observed the phenomena of the various forms of society, with such success 
as few 
others have 
attained. 
