so that, when all was made smooth, it made a perfect cube, of which the perforated brass plate made the poop. 
The apparatus being now exposed to the stream, with the perforated plate looking down the stream, 
The hole A indicated a non preffion - = 7, 2 
B -. - 8 
C. ’ 6 
Here was a great diminution of the non preffions produced by the distance between the prow and the poop. 
This box was then fitted in the same manner, so as to make the poop of a box three seet long. In this •situation the non pressures were as follow î 
Hole A - - - ι 
B 3>.2 
The non preffions were still farther diminished by this increase of length. 
The box was then exposed with all the holes open, in three different situations : 
ist, single, giving a non pressure - 
l, Making the poop of a cube - 
5, $ 
3d, Making the poop of a box three seet long 3, 0 Another larger box : 
ist, 
single. - - 12, 2 
2d, Poop of a cube - - 5> 
3d, Poop of the long box - 3’2 
These are most valuable experiments. They plainly show how important it is to consider the action on the hinder part of the body. For the whole impulse or resistance, which must be withstood or overcome by the external force, ls the sum of the actlve pressure on the forepart, and of the non pressure on the hinder part; and they show that this does not depend solely on the form of the prow and poop, but also, and perhaps chiefly, on the length of the body. We see that the non preffure on the hinder part was prodigiousiy diminished (reduced to one fourth) by making the length of the body triple of the breadth. And hence it appears, that merely lengthening a ship, without making any change in the form either of her prow or her poop, will greatly diminish the resistance to her motion through the water; and this increase of length may be made by continuing the form of the midship frame in several timbers along the keel, by which the capacity of the ship, and her power of carrying sail, will be greatly increased, and her other qualities improved, while her speed is augmented. 
It is surely of importance to consider a little the physical cause of this change. The motions are extremely complicated, and we must be contented if we can but perceive a few leading circumstances. 
The water is turned aside by the anterior part of the body, and the velocity of the filaments is increased, and they acquire a divergent motion, by which they also push aside the surrounding water. On each side of the body, therefore, they are moving in a divergent direc tion, and with an increased velocity. But as they are on all sides pressed by the fluid without them, their motions gradually approach to parallelism, and their velocities to an equality with the stream. The progresc sive velocity, or that in the direction of the stream, 13 checked, at least at filst. But since we observe the si laments constipatcd round the body, and that they are got deflected at right angles to their former direction, it is plain 
that 
the real velocity of a filament in its ob lique path is augmented. We always observe, that a stone lying in the fand, and exposed to the wash of the sea, is laid bare at the bottom, and the fand is generally washed away to some distance all round. This is owing to the increased velocity of the water which comes into contact with the stone. It takes up more fand than it can keep floating, and it deposits it at a little distance all around, forming a little bank, which surrounds the stone at a small distance. when the filaments of water have passed the body, they are pressed by the ambient fluid into the place which it has quitted, and they glide round its stern, and sill up the space behind. '1 he more divergent and the more rapid they are, wlien about to fall in behind, the more of the circumambient pressure muss be employed to turn them into the trough behind the body, and less of it will remain to press them to the body itself. The extreme of this must obtain when the llream is obstructed by a thin plane only. But when there is some distance between the prow and the poop, the divergency of the si laments which had been turned aside by the prow, ia diminished by the time that they have come abreast of the stern, and should turn in behind it. They are therefore more readily made to converge behind the body, and a more considerable part of the surrounding pressure remains unexpended, and therefore presses the water against the fiern; and it is evident that this advantage must be so much the greater as the body is longer. But the advantage will soon be susceptible of no very considerable increase : for the lateral and divergent, and accelerated filaments, will soon become so nearly parallel and equally rapid with the rest of thc stream, that a great increase of length will not make any constderable change in these particulars; and it must be accompanied with an increase of friction. 
These are very obvious reflections. And if we attend minutçly to the way in which thc almost stagnant fluid behind the body is expended and renewed, we shall see all these effects confirmed and augmented. But as we cannot say anything on this subject that is precise, or that can be made the subject of computation, it is needless to enter into a more minute discussion. The diminution of the non pressure towards the centra most probably arises from the smaller force which is necessary to be expended in the inflexion of the lateral si. laments, already inflected in some degree, and having their velocity diminished. But it 13 a subject highly deserving the attention of the mathematicians; and we presume to invite them to the study of the motions of these lateral silaments, passing the body, and pressed into its wake by forces which are sufceptible of no difficult investlgation. It seems highly probable, that if a prifmatsc box, with a square stern, were fitted with an addition precisely shaped like the water which would (abstracting tenacity and friction) have been stagnant behind it, the quantity of non preffion would be thc smallest possible. The mathematician would surely discover circumstances which would furnish some maxims of construction for the hinder part as well as for the prow. And as hjs speculations on this last have not been wholly fruitless, we may expect advantages from his attention to this part, so much neglected. 
In the mean time, let us attend to the deductions' which Mr de Buat has made from his few experiments. 
