Valazé . 
"Here is a letter of the late king to the bishop of Clermont, with the answer of the latter, of the 16th of April 1791.” 
Louis. 
"I disown it.” 
Profdent. 
"Do you not acknowledge your writing and your signet ?” 
Louis. 
I do not.” 
Preofdent. 
"The seal bears the arms of France.” 
Louis. 
"several persons made use of that seal.” 
Valazé. 
“Do you acknowledge this list of sums paid to Gilles ?” 
Louis. 
“I do not.” 
Valazé. 
“Here is a memorandum for indemnify ing the civil list for the military pensions; a letter of Dufrefne st Leon, which relates to it.” 
Louis. 
"I know none of these pieces.” 
when the whole liad been investigated in this manner, 
the president, addressing the king, said, " I have no other questions to propose— — you anything more to add in your defence ?” — " I desire to have a copy of the accusation (replied the king), and of the papers on which it is founded. I also desire to have a counsel of my own nomination.” Barrere informed him, that his two first requests were already decreed, and that the determination respecting the other would be made known to him in due time. 
It would have been an excess of cruelty to refuse a request so reasonable in itself;; was therefore decreed that counsel should be allowed to the king, and his choice fell upon M. M. Tronchet, Lamoignon male sherbes, and Deseze; he liad previousiy applied to M Target, who excused himself on account of his age and infirmity. On the 26th of December, the king appeared for the last time at the bar of the convention; and M. Deseze read a defence which the counsel liad prepared, and which was equally admired for the solidity of the argument and the beauty of the composition. 
when the defence was sinished, the king arose, and holding a paper in his hand, pronounced in a calm manner, and with a sirm voice, what follows : “Citizens, you have heard my defence; I now speak to you, perhaps for the last time, and declare that my counsel have asserted nothing„to you but the truth; my conscience reproaches me with nothing : 1 never was afraid of having my conduct investigated; but I observed with great uneasi ness, that I was accused of giving orders for shedding the blood of the people on the 10th of August. The proofs I have given through my whole life of a contra ry disposition, I hoped would have saved me from such an imputation, which I now solemnly declare is entire ly groundless.” 
The discussion was fatally closed on the 16th of ja nuary. After a sitting of near 34 hours, the punishment of death was awarded by a small majority of the convention, and several of these differed in opinion from the rest, respecting the time when it should be inflicted; some contending that it should not be put in execution till after the end of the war, while others proposed to take the sense of the people, by referring the sentence to the primary affetnblies. 
M. Deseze then solemnly invoked the assembly in the name of his colleagues, to consider by what a small majority the punishment of death was pronounced against the dethroned monarch. " Do not afflict France (added this eloquent advocate) by a judgement that will appear terrible to her, when 
stye 
voices 
only 
were 
VVT T J 
prefnmed snfficient to carry it.” He appealed to eternal justice, and sacred humanity, to induce the convention to refer their sentence to the tribunal of the people. “You have either forgotten or destroyed (said the ce lebrated M. Tronchet) the lenity which the law allows to criminals, of requiring at least 
two thirds 
of the voices to constitute a definitive judgement, ” 
I'he sentence was ordered to be executed in twenty-four hours. 
The king and his family had been for some time kept separate from each other; but he was now allowed to see them, and to choose an ecclesiastic to attend him. The meeting, and, above all, the separation from his family, was tender in the extreme. On Monday the ist January, at eight o’clock in the morning, the unfortunate monarch was summoned to his fate. He ascended the scassold with a sirm air and step. Raising his voice, he said, " Frenchmen, I die innocent; I pardon all my enemies; and may France” — at this instant the inhuman santerre ordered the drums to beat, and the executioners to perform their office, when they offered to bind his hands, he started back as if about to refill; but recollected himself in a moment, and submitted. when the instrument of death descended, the priest exclaimed, " son of st Louis, ascend to heaven.” The bleeding head was held up, and a few of the populace shouted 
Vive la République. 
His body was interred in a grave that was silled up with quicklime, aud a guard placed around till it should be consumed. 
Ί hus fell Louis XVI He possessed from nature a good understanding, which, however, was blunted by the early indulgences of a court. He had a strong sense of justice, and his humanity was perhaps extreme. One defect rendered his virtues of little va lue, which was the possession of an irresolute and un steady character. Unambitious, and easily advised, he was without difficulty induced to change his purposes, especially by his queen, whose connexion with the house of Austria had always tended to render his coun sels unpopular, whether he was or was not connected with the foreign invaders of his country, posterity must decide; but all men of sense and moderation must be convinced that he was murdered by a band of russians. Indeed a sentence so infamous, and in all respects un just, is not to be found in the records of history. The greater part of the charges brought against him were trifling. Those which seem to be of importance re late to conduct authorised by the constitution under which he acted; and that constitution declared his person inviolable. The feverest punishment that he could incur by law, was not death, but deposition; and there is no doubt, that in putting him to death the French nation broke the social compact which their represen tatives made with him. In a political view, this tragical event was injurious to the republican cause throughout Europe. No man out of France ventured to justi fy it; and in all countries it excited the most violent indignation against the rulers of the new republic. 
New enemies were now hastening to join the general league against France, we do not mean here to enter into a detail of the political struggles that occurred in any other country, than that in the narrative of whose revolution we are now engaged. It will therefore only be necessary to remark in general, that the British go verment at this time thought itself endangered by the propagation of those speculative opinions which had 
