grounded on this man’s end, was his having two sons Jesuits, and his being a dependent on thc family of Monsieur d’entragues, 
RAUN,, upon the river Miza, a town of some strength, remarkable for a bloody skirmish between the Prussians and Auslrians, in August 1744.. The king of Prussia, intending to get possession of Beraun, sent thither six battalions, with eight cannon, and 800 huf sars; but General Festititz being there with a great party of his corps, and M. Luchesi with tooo horse, they not only repulsed the Prussians, but attacked them in their turn, and, after a warm dispute, obliged them to retire with considerable loss. 
RAURICUM (anc. geog.), a town of the Raurici, situated over against Abnoba, a mountain from which the Danube takes its rise. A Roman colony led by L Manutius Plancus the seholar and friend of Cicero : called 
Colonia Rauriaca 
(Pliny), 
Ratrica 
(Inscription), 
Augufia Rauricorum. 
The town was destroyed in julian’s time. It is now commonly called 
Augst, 
a village greatly decayed from what it formerly was. It is situated on the Rhine, distant about two hours to the east of Basil. The country is now the canton of Basil. 
RAY (John), a celebrated botanist, was the son of Mr Roger Ray a blacksmith, and was born at Black Notly in Essex in 1628. He received the sirst rudiments of learning at the grammar sehool at Braintree; and in 1644 was admitted into Catharine hall in Cambridge, from whence he afterwards removed to Trinity college in that university. He took the degree of master of arts, and became at length a senior sel low of the college; but his intense application to his studies having injured his health, he was obliged at his leisure hours to exercise himself by riding or walking in the fields, which led him to the study of plants. He noted from Johnson, Parkinson, and the 
Phytologia Britannica, 
the places where curious plants grew; and in 1658 rode from Cambridge to the city of Chester, from whence he went into North wales, visiting many places, and among others the famous hill of snowdon; returning by shrewshury and Gloucester. In 1660 he published his 
Catalogus Plantarum circa Cantabrigiam naf centium, 
and the same year was ordained deacon and priest. In 166 t he accompanied Francis willoughby, Esq; and others in search of plants and other natural curiosities, in the north of England and scotland; and the next year made a western tour from Chester, and through wales, to Cornwall, Devonshire, Dorsetshire, Hampshire, wiltshire, and other counties. He afterwards travelled with Mr willoughby and other gen tlemen through Holland, Germany, Italy, France, c. took several tours in England, and was admitted fellow of the Royal society. i11 1672, his intimate and beloved friend Mr willoughby died in the 37th year of his age, at Middleton Hall, his seat in Yorkshire; 
"to the infinite and unspeakable loss and grief (says Mr Ray) of myself, his friends, and all good men.” There having been the closest and sincerest sriendship between Mr willoughby and Μι Ray, who were men of similar natures and tastes, from the time of their being fellow collegians, Mr willoughby not only confided in Mr Ray, in his lifetime, but also at his death : for he made him one of the executors of his will, and charged him with the education of his sons Francis and 
Thomas, leaving 
him 
also for life 601. 
jber annum. 
I he eldest of these young gentlemen not being four years of age, Mr Ray, as a faithful trustee, betook himself to the instruction of them; and for their use composed his 
Nomenclator Classtcus, 
which was publish ed this very year, 1672. Francis the eldest dying before he was of age, the younger became Lord middle tonne. Not many months after the death of Mr wî1 loughby, Mr Ray lost another of his best friends, bi shop wstkins; whom he visited in London the 8th of November 1672, and found near expiring by a total suppression of urine for eight days. As it is natural for the mind, when it is hurt in one part, to seek relief from another; so Mr Ray, having lost some of his best friends, and being in a manner left destitute, conceived thoughts of marriage; and accordingly, in June 1 673, did actually marry a gentlewoman of about 20 years of age, the daughter of Mr Oakley of Launton in Oxsordshire. Towards the end of this year, came forth his " Observations Topographical, Moral, c.” made in foreign countries; to which was added his 
Catalogus stirpium in exteris regionibus observatarum : 
and about the same time, his 
Collection of unusual or local Rngfish words, 
which he had gathered up in his travels through the counties of England. After having published many books on subjects foreign to his profession, he at length resolved to publish in the character of a divine, as well as in that of a natural philosopher : in which view he published his excellent demonstration of the being and attributes of God, entitled 
The Wisdom ol God mansested 'in the Works of the Creation, 
8vo, 1697. The rudiments of this work were read in some college lectures; and another collection of the same kind he enlarged and published under the title of 
Three pyflco theological Discourses, concerning the Chaos, Deluge, and Dissolution of the World, 
8vo, 1692. He died in 1705·. He was modest, affable, and communicative; and was 
distinguished by his probity, charity, sobriety, and piety. He wrote a great number of works; the principal of which, besides those already mentioned, are, 1. 
Catalogus Plantarum Anglia. 
2. 
Dictionariotum Trilinguefecundum locos communes. 
3. 
Hijloria Plantarum, species, hactenus editas, aliasque insuper multas noviter inventas el defcriptas complectens, 
3 vols. 4. 
Methodus Plantarum nova, cum Tabulis, 
8vo, and several other works on plants. 6. 
synopofis Methodica Animalium quadrupedum et serpentini generis, 
8νοι 6. 
synopfls Methodica a vium et Pifcium. q. Hijloria Infectorum, opus pojlhumum. 
8. 
Methodus Infectarum. 
9. Philosophical Letters, cray, 
in optics, a beam of light emitted from a ra diant or luminous body. see Light and Optics. 
Inflected Rays, 
those rays of light which, on their near approach to the edges of bodies, in passing by them, are bent out of their course, being turned either from the body or towards it. This property of the rays of light is generally termed 
diffraction 
by foreigners, and Dr Hook sometimes called it 
deflection. 
Reflected Rays, 
those rays of light which, after falling upon the body, do not go beyond the sursace of it, but are thrown back again. 
Refracted Rays, 
those rays of light which, after shall ing upon any medium, enter its sursace, being bent eh there towards or from a perpendicular to the point 
on 
which they fell. 
