that the same bodies which have been accomplices in our vices and virtues, should also share in our rewards and punishments. Now, granting they will, shall one set of particles be bound for the crimes, or be entitled to receive the rewards, of the animal system, srom its first commencement to its dissolution?? shall every particle rise up successively, and receive its dividend of rewards and punishments for the vices and virtues that belonged' to the systern during the time that they were in union with the sentient principle? and is the hand that fell in defending a father to be (as is supposed in some of the eastern countries) rewarded in heaven; while the other that struck him when the son became vicious, is dismissed into torments? 
Finding this hypothesis supported by neither scripture nor reason, they next appeal to the ancient fathers. And they, it is confessed, are for the resurrection of the very same ssesh. But this notion is directly contrary to the scriptures, which have said, that ssesh and blood are not to inherit the kingdom of God. 
But whatever be the bodies with which the dead are to be raised at the general resurrection, all mankind must appear in judgement, and receive sentence accord sug to the deeds done in the body, without regard, so far as we know, to their actions and conduct in the middle state After this sentence, the righteous are to enter into celestial and eternal joys, and the wicked to suffer the punishments of hell. These punishments some have supposed to be everlasting; others think, that after some temporary punishment, the souls, of the wicked are to be annihilated; and others imagine, that after doing purgatorial penance for a while in hell, they are to be again received into favour; inclining to ex plain the denunciations of the Almighty as a child would do the threatenings of his mother, or a lover the affected chidings of his mistress a). 
resuscitation, the same with resurrection and revivisication. see the preceding article and Re 
ανιματίον. 
The term 
resusdtation, 
however, is more particularly used by chemists for the reproducing a mixed body from its ashes; an all to which many have pretended,, as to reproduce plants, c. from their ashes. 
RETAIL, in commerce, is the selling of goods in small parcels, in opposition to wholesale. see com jmekce. 
RETAINER, a servant who does not continually dwell in the house of his master, but only attends up on special occasions. 
RETAINING FEE, the sirst see given to a sergeant or counsellor at law, in order to make him sure, and prevent his pleading on the contrary side. 
RETALIATION, among civilians, the act of re turning like for like. 
RETARDATION, in physics, the act of dimi nishing the velocity of a moving body. see Gunnery, Mechanics, Pneumatics, and Projectiles 
RETE mirabile, in anatomy, a small plexus or network of vessels in the brain, surrounding the pituitary gland. 
RETENTION is defined by Mr Locke to be, a faculty of the mind, whereby it keeps or retains those simple ideas it has once received, by sensation or ressec tion. see Metaphysics, Part I. Chap. II 
Retention is also used, in medicine, c. for the state of contraction in the solids or vascular parts of the body, which makes them hold fast their proper aeon tents. In this sense, retention is cpposed to evacuation and excretion. 
RETICULAR 
BODY 
corpus reticulare), 
in anatom my, a very sine membrane, perforated, in the manner of a net, with a multitude of foramina. It is placed im mediately under the cuticle; and when that is separated from the cutis, whether by art or accident, this adheres firmly to it, and is scarce possible to be parted from it, seeming rather to b.c. its inner supersicies than a distinct substance. In regard to this, we are to observe, sirst, the places in which it is found, being all those in which the sense of feeling is most acute, as in the palms of the hands, the extremities of the fingers, and on the soles of the feet. The tongue, however, is the part where it is most accurately to be observed : it is more easily distinguishable there than anywhere else, : and its nature and structure are most evidently seen there. 
Its colour in the Europeans is white; but in the northeast groes and other black nations it is black; in the tawny it is yellowish: the skin itself in both is white; and the. blackness and yellowness depend altogether on the co lour of this membrane. 
The uses of the corpus reticulare are to preserve the structure of the other parts of the integuments, and? keep them in their determinate form and situation. Its. apertures give passage to the hairs and sweat through the papillae and excretory ducts of the skin : it retains these in a certain and determinate order, that they cannot be removed out of their places, and has some share in preserving the softness of thc papillae, which renders them sit for the sense of feeling. see anato my, n 83. 
Reticulum, is a Latin word, signifying a //#/<? or 
cofling net. 
It was applied by the Romans to a particular mode of constructing their buildings. In the city of salino (see saliuo) are still to be seen remains of some walls, evidently of Roman origin from the 
reticulum. 
This structure consists of small pieces of baked, earth cut lozengewise, and disposed with great regularity on the angles, so as to exhibit to the eye the appearance 
of 
cut diamonds; and was called 
reticular, 
srom its resemblance to sishing nets. The Romans always concealecl it under a regular coating of other matter; and Mr Houel insorms us, that this was the only specimen of it which he saw in all his travels through sicily, Malta, and Lipari. It appears to be the remains of some baths, 
a) The French convention, whose principles are equally new, daring, and destructive of all that is decent or of good report, have decided this question in a very summary way, by decreeing death to be an eternal sseep; a decree equally absurd in itself and fatal in its consequences. since this article went to the press, however, we have learned, from the most respectable authority, that wild and absurd as the opinion is, it has been industrioussy propagated in this country, and that in some places it has gained ground. The consequences of this, were it to become general, must indeed be baneful beyond all conception; and we shall afterwards take occasion to expose the opinion and its nefarious consequences at greater length than it is now possible to do in this place. see Theolog y. 
