R 
ANA, the frog, in zoology; 
a 
genus belongingto the order of amphibia reptilia. The body is naked, furaished with four feet, and without any tail. There are 17 species. The most remarkable are, 
I. 
The temporaria, or common frog. This is an animal so well known, that it needs no description; but some of its properties are very singular. 
lts spring, or power of taking large leaps, is re markably great, and it is the best swiinmer of all four footed animals. Nature hath finely adapted its parts for those ends, the fore members of 'the body being very lightly made, the hind legs and thighs very long, and furnished with very strong muscles. 
while in a tadpole state, it is entirely a water animal; the work of generation is performed in that ele jrient, as may be seen in every pond during spring, when the female remains oppressed by the male sora number of days. 
The work of propagation is extremely singular, it be ing certain that the frog has not 
a penis intrans. 
There appears a strong analogy in this case between a certain class of the vegetable kingdom and those animals; for it is well known, that when the female frog deposits its spawn, the male instantaneousiy impregnates it with what we may call a 
sarina scecundans, 
in the same manner as the palm tree conveys fructification to the flowers of the female, which would otherwise be barren. 
As soon as the frogs are released from their tadpole state, they immediately take to land; and if the weather has been hot, and there fall any refreshing showers, yon may see the ground for a considerable space perfectly blackened by myriads of these animalcules, seek ing for some secure lurking places. some philoso phers, not giving themselves time to examine into this phenomenon, imagined them to have been generated in the clouds, and showered on the earth; but had they, like our Derliam, but traced them to the next pool, they would have found a better solution of the difficulty. see 
Preternatural Rains. 
As frogs adhere closely to the backs of their own species, so we know they will do the same by sish. — walton mentions a strange story of their destroying pike; but that they will injure, if not entirely kill carp, is a fact indisputable, from the following rela tion. Not many years ago, on sishing a pond belong ing to Mr Pitt of Encomb, Dorsetshire, great numbers of the carp were found each with a frog mounted on it, the hind legs clinging to the back, and the fore legs fixed in the corner of each eye of the sish, which were thin and greatly wafted, teased by carrying so disagree able a load. 1 hese frogs Mr Pennant supposes to have been males disapppointed of' a mate. 
The croaking of frogs is well known; and from that in fenny countries they are distinguished by ludicrous titles : thus they are styled 
Dutch nightingales, 
and 
bof tonne wait es. 
Yet there is a time of the year when they become mute, neither croaking nor opening their mouths for a whole month : this happens in the hot season, and that is in many places known to the country people by the name of the 
paddock moon. 
It is said, that during that period their mouths are so closed, that no force with out killing the animal) will be capable of opening them. 
These, as well as other reptiles, seed but a small space of the year. The food of this genus is flies, in sects, and snails. Toads are said to feed also on bees, and to do great injury to those usesul insects. 
During winter, frogs and toads remain in a torpid state : the last of which will dig into the earth, and cover themselves with almost the same agility as the mole. see Physiology, no 48 and note (b), and sh 52, 
2. The esculenta, or edible frog, differs from the former, in having a high protuberance in the middle of the back, forming a very sharp angle. Its colours are also more vivid, and its marks more distinct; the ground colour being a pale or yellowish green, marked with rows of black spots from the head to the rump. —. This, and (Mr Pennant thinks) the former, are eaten he has seen in the markets at Paris whole hampers full, which the venders were preparing for the table, by ikinning and cutting off the fore parts, the loins and legs only being kept; but his strong dissike to these reptiles prevented a close examination into the species, 
3. In the country of Pennsylvania, and some other parts of North America, there is a very large species of frogs called the 
bullfrog, 
or 
rana ocellata. 
Their irides are of a dusky red, surrounded with a yellow ring. The auricles are covered with a thin circular skin, which forms a spot behind each eye. They have four toes on the forefeet, and five palmated toes behind. Their co lour is a dusky brown, mixed with yellowish green, and spotted with black. The belly is yellowish, and faintly spotted. These make a monstrous roaring noise like 
a 
bull, only somewhat shore hoarse. Their size is superior to that of any other of the genus, and they can spring forward three yards at a leap. By this means they will equal in fpecd a very good horse in its swistest course. Their places of abode are ponds, or bogs with stagnant water; but they never frequent 
streams. when 
many 
