of medicine it is always considered as a symptom of disease, 
and the patient recommended to be treated in the hospital, and not in the academy. 
By his raising others, and partsculary by rising himself, from the dead, our saviour demonstrated that a resurrection from the dead is possible. And on that au thority, which by his miracles be proved to be divine, he declared to his followers, that there is to be a gene ral resurection both of the just and of the unjust, in structing his disciples to propagate this doctrine through all nations; st Paul confessing, that if there be no resur rection of the dead, preaching is vain, and our faith is vain. 
As to the order of succession in which the dead are to be raised, the scriptures are almost silent. st Paul says, that every man is to rise in his own order, and that the dead in Christ are to rise sirst: and st John ob served in his vision, that the souls of them which were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands, lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years; but the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years y) were finished. 
A question that has much offener agitated the minds of men is, with what sort of bodies are the dead to be raised? st Paul has answered, with incorruptible and immortal bodies ZAND to silence the disputatious caviller of his day, he illustrated his doctrine by the growth of grain. " Thou fool (said he), that which thou sowest, thou fowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain, it may chance of wheat or of some other grain.” To us it appears very surprising, that any one wlio reads this passage with the ssightest attention, should perplex himself, or disturb the church with idle attempts to prove the identity of the bodies with which we shall die and rise again at the last day. Tile apostle expressly affirms, that " ssesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; that we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump; that there are celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial; and that the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial another, ” 
That this implies a total change of qualities, will admit of no dispute; but ssill it has been considered as an article of the Christian faith, that we are to rise with the same bodies in respect of substance. what is meant by the identity of substance, with qualities wholly different, it is not very easy to conceive. Perhaps the meaning may be, that our incorruptible bodies shall confirt of the same material particles with our mortal bodies, though these particles will be differently arranged to produce the different qualities. But as the particles of our present bodies are constantly changing, and as different particles compose the body atdiffeient times, a question has been put, with what sct of particles shall we rise? Here a singular variety of opinions have been held. some * contend, that we shall rise with the original stamina of our bodies derived from our parents; some are for rising with that sct of particles which they had at birth; some with the set which they are to have at death; and some with the particles which remain after maceration in water j; though, God knows, that if this maceration be continued long, these may arise with few or no particles at all. Another query has given much alarm, what if any of these particles should enter a vegetable, compose its fruit, and be eaten by a man, woman, or a child? wî11 not a dispute, similar to that apprehended by the sadducees about the wife of the seven brothers, necessarily follow, whose particles are they to be at the resurrection? Against this confusion, they trust that the goodness and wisdom of heaven will take all the proper and necessary measures; and they even venture to point out a way in which that may be done. A foot deep of earth, they observe, in two or three of the counties of England, suppossng each person to weigh on an average about fevcu stones and a few pounds, would amply supply with material bodies 600, 000, 000 of souls for no less a space than 2 3, 000 years §; and therefore there seems to be no necessity for the vamping up of their old materials to lodge and accommodate new souls. 
But, unluckily here, the question is not about the possibility of keeping the particles of different bodies separate and distinct. The question is rather, what have the scriptures determined on the subject? Now the scriptures say, that the spirit returns unto God who gave it. And should it be asked, in what place does he reserve it till the resurrection?? scriptures reply, in the place of the dead; because the soul descends into the pit, is redeemed from the grave; and the sting of death, the last enemy that is to be destroyed, shall be taken away when the trumpet of God shall sound : at which time the dead that sseep in their graves shall awake, shall hear the voice, and shall come forth. There is not here so much as a word concerning the body; and therefore st was asked with what bodies are the dead to be raised?? which it was answered, the vile body is to be changed. The body which is, is not the body which shall be; for the incorruptible must put on incorruption, and that which is mortal, put on immortality. 
This curious discovery of the sentiments of scripture we owe to a lay man, the celebrated Locke; who, in one of his controverses with the bishop of worcester, came to understand what he knew not before, namely, that nowhere have the scriptures spoken of the resurrection of the same body in the sense in which it is usu ally conceived. The resurrection of the same person is indeed promised; and how that promise maybe fnlfill ed, notwithstanding the constant change of the particles of the body, has been shown in another place. see Metaphysics, Part III Chap. III 
The advocates, therefore, for the resurrection of the mortal body, have again been obliged to betake them selves to the shifts of reasoning. It is proper, say they, 
Y) 
These thousand years formed the happy millenium so often mentioned in the ancient fathers; and the learned Burnet, in his Theory of the Earth, has endeavoured to prove, that a similar notion prevailed among the Jews. see Millenium. 
Z) Our saviour rose with the same body, both as to substance and qualities; because it was nefcessary that his person should be known and identified after his resurrection. 
