stegc of L 
andre cies; 15, 000 British and 15, 000 austri ans, commanded by the duke 
of 
York and general Otto, encamped towards Cambray. The emperor and the prince of saxe cobourg, at the head of 60, 000 auf trians, were advanced as sar as Guise; 12, 000 heffi ans and Austrians under general worms were stationed near Douay and Bouchain; Count Kaunitz with 15, 000 Austrians defended the sambre and the quarter near Maubeuge; and, lastly, general Clairfait, with 40, 000 Austrians and Hanoverians, protected Flanders from Tournay to the sea; 60, 000 Prussians, for whom a subsidy had been paid by Great Britain, were expect ed in addition to these, but they never arrived. 
The French now commenced their active operations. On the morning of the 26th of April they attacked the duke of York near Cateau in great force. After a severe conflict they were repulsed, and their general Chapuy was taken prisoner. At the same time they attacked the troops under his Imperial majesty, but were there also repulsed in a similar manner; losing in all 57 pieces of cannon. On the same day, however, general Pichegru advanced from Lisse, attacked and defeated general Clairfait, took 32 pieces of cannon; and, in the course of a few days, made himself master of Warwick, Menin, and Courtray, On the 29th of April, the garrison of Landrecies surrendered to the allies. when this event was known in the convention, 
. it excited a considerable degree of alarm. It was, however, the last effectual piece of success enjoyed by the allies during this disastrous campaign. General Clairfait was again completely defeated by Pichegru in a general engagement; and it was found necessary to send the duke of York to his assistance. This move ment was no doubt unavoidable; but the effect of it was, that it split down the allied army into a variety of portions, capable of carrying on a desultory war fare, but unfit sor the vigorous objects of conquest. On the 10th the duke of York was attacked near Tournay by a body of the enemy, whom he repulsed; but he was unable to join Clairfast, upon whose de struction the French were chiefly bent : for at thc same time that the duke of York was occupied by the attack upon himseff, Pichegru fell upon Clairfait with filch irresistible impetuosity, that he was compelled to retreat in confusion, and a part of his army appears to have fled to the neighbourhood of Bruges, while Pichegru was thus advancing successsully in west flan dear, general jourdan advanced in East Elanders from Maubeuge, crossed the sambre, and forced general Kaunitz to retreat. On the 18th, however, general Kaunitz succeedfed in repuising the enemy in his turn, and they recrossed the sambre with considerable loss. 
The allies now found that no progress could be made in France while general Pichegru was advancing succefs fully and occupying west Flanders in their rear. The emperor, therefore, withdrew the greater part of his army to the neighbourhood of Tournay, and resolved to make a grand effort to cut oss the communication between Courtray and Lisle, thus to prevent complete ly the retreat of Pichegru. On the night of the 16th, the army moved forwards in five columns for this purpose. Clairfait was at the same time directed, to cross the Lys, to effect 
a 
general junction, if possible, and complete the plan. The attempt during that evening 
Äeemed to 
promise success; but, 
in the course of next 
day, the division under the duke of York 
was 
over powered by numbers and defeated. The progress of the rest of the columns was stopped, and Clairfast completely defeated. In the confusion of the day, when attempting to rally the different parts of the di vision which he commanded, the duke of York was separated from his own troops 
by 
a party of the enemy’s cavalry, and only escaped being made prisoner by the swiftness of his horse. The plan of the allies being thus frustrated, their army withdrew to the neighbourhood of Tournay. 
Pichegru speedily attempted to retaliate against the allies. On the 22d of May he brought down at day break his whole force against them. The attack was commenced by a heavy sire of artillery, and all the ad vanced posts were forced. The engagement soon became general; the attacks were repeatedly renewed on both sides; the whole day was spent in a succes sion of obstinate battles. All that military kill could do was performed on both sides. The French and the allied soldiers fought with equal courage and equal discipline. At nine o’clock in the evening the French at last reluctantly withdrew from the attack. 
Ί he day on which a vanquished enemy flies from the field is not âlways that on which the victory is won. In this engagement the French were unsuccesssul in their immediate objects; but the weight of their sire, their steady discipline, and their violent obstinacy of attack, raised their military character high in the esti mation of the officers and soldiers of the allied army. It was soon perceived, that in addition to these they possessed other advantages. Their numbers were immense;; implicitly obeyed their generals; who, 
being men newly raised from the rank of subalterns, as implicitly submitted to the directions of the com mitte of public safety. A combination of efforts was thus produced whose operation vvas not retarded by divided counsels. On the other side, the numbers of the allies were daily declining; them leaders were independent princes or powerful men, whose sentiments and interests were often very hostile to each other, and their exertions were consequently disunited. 
Ou the 24th the French again crossed the sambre, but were driven back with much loss. On the 27th an attempt was made to besiege Charleroi, but the prince of Orange on the 3d of June compelled them to raise the liege. On the 12th a similar attempt was made, and they were again repulsed. In west Flanders, however, Pichegru was sufficiently slrong to commence the liege of Ypres. He was soon attacked by general Clairfait for the purpose of relieving it, but without success. — Ypres was garrisoned by 7000 men; reinforcements were therefore daily sent from the grand army to Clairfait for the purpose of relieving it. It is unnecessary to, mention the bloody contests su which that unfortunate general was daily engaged with thc French; it is sufficient to say, that they were uni forraly unsuccessful, and were the means of wafting, in 
a 
great degree, the armies of the allies. Ypres held out till the 17th of June, when it capitulated: and such was the discipline of the French army at this time, that no notice could be obtained, for several days, of that event. In consequence of it and of other events, the duke of York found it necessary to retreat to oude narde j for Jourdan, after storming the Austrian camp 
