section of 
the plane (which we 
have ealsed 
its base), perpendicular to the direction of the stream. In AC produced, take any length CG; and on CG describe the semicircle chcr, and complete the rectangle BCGO. Through any point p of the curve draw ED parallel to AC, and meeting B.C. and OG in Quand PLET DF touch the curve in D, and draw the chord GH parallel to DF, and HKM perpendi cular to CG, meeting ED in M. suppose this to be done for every point of the curve ADB, and let LMN be the curve which passes through all the points of intersection of the parallels EDP and the corresponding perpendiculars HKM. 
The effective impulse on the curve surface ADB in the direction of the stream, is to its direct impnlse on the base B.C. as the area BCNL is to the rectangle BCGO. 
Draw 
edqmp 
parallel to EP and extremely near 
lt. 
The arch D 
d 
of the curve may be conceived as the section of an elementary plane, having the position 
of 
the tangent DF. The angle EDF is the angle of in. cidence of the filament ED 
d e. 
T his is equal to csoh, because ED, DF, are parallel to CG, GH; and be cause CHG is a semicircle) CH is perpendicular to GH. Also CG : CH = CH : CK, and CG : CK = CG’ : CH, = rad : sin CGH, = rash : sin.’ in cid. Therefore if CG, or its equal DP, represent the direct impulse on the point q__of the base, CK, or its equal QM, will represent the effective impulse on the point D of the curve. And thus, Q 
qp 
P will represent the direct impulse of the filament on the element Qu7 of the base, and Quz 
m 
M will represent the effektive impulse of the same filament on the element D 
d 
of the curve. And, as this is true of the whole curve ADB, the effective impulse on the whole curve will be represented by the area BCNML; and the direct impulse on the base will be represented by the rectangle BCGO; and therefore the lmpulse on the curve sursace is to the impulse on the base as the area BLMNC is to the rectangle BOGC. 
It is plain, srom the construction, that if the tangent to the curve at A is perpendicular to AC, the point N will coincide with G. Also, if the tangent to the curve at B 
is 
parallel to AC, the point L will coincide with B. 
whenever, therefore, the curve ADB is such that an equation can be had to exhibit the general relation between the abscissa AR and the ordinate DR, we shall deduce an equation which exhibits the relation between the abfciss CK and the ordinate KM of the curve LMN; and this will give us thc ratio of BLNC to BOGC. 
Thus, if the sursace is that of a cylinder, fo that the curve BDA 
b 
(fig. 5.), which receives the impulse of the fluid, is a semicircle, make CG equal to AC, and construct the figure as before. The curve BMG is a parabola, whose axis is CG, whose vertex is G, and whose parameter is equal to CG. For it is plain, that 
CG = 
DC, and GH = cqu = MK. And CG X GK = GH2 — KM That is, the curve is such, that the square of the ordinate KM is equal to the rectangle of the abscissa GK arfd a conssant line 
GC; 
and it is there 
sure a 
parabola whose vertex is 
G. Now, jt ie well 
known, that the parabolic area BMGC is 
two thirds 
of the parallelogram BCGO. Therefore the impulse on the quadrant ADB is two thirds of the impulse on the base B.C.. The same may b.c. said of thc quadrant 
of db 
and its base 
C b. 
Therefore, 
The impulse on j cylinder or half cylinder is t wo thirds of the direct impulse on its transverse plane through the axis; 
or it is two thirds of the direct impulse on one fide of a parallelopiped of thc same breadth and height. 
Ρκ, ορ. 
VI — If the body be a solid generated by the revolution of the figure BDAC (fig. 4.) round the axis AC; and if it be exposhd to the action of 
a 
stream 
q( 
fluid moving in the direction of the axis AC; then the effective impulse in the direction of the stream is to the direct impulse on its base, as the solid generated by the revolution of the figure BLMNC round the axis CN to the cylinder generated by thç revolution of the rectangle BOGC. 
This scarcely needs â demonstration. The figure 
ADBLMNA is a section of these solids by a plane passing through the axis; and what has been demon strated of this section is true of every other, because they are all equal and similar. It is therefore true of the whole solids, and (their base) the circle generated by the revolution of B.C. round the axis AC. 
Hence we easily deduce, that 
The impulse on a sphere is one half of the direct impulse on its great circle, or on the base of a cylinder of equal diameter. 
For in this case the curve BMN (sig. 5·.) which generates the solid expressmg the impulse on the sphere is a parabola, and the solid is a parabolic conoid. Now this conoid is to the cylinder generated hythe revolution of the rectangle BOGC round the axis CG, as the 
film 
of all the circles generated by the revolution of ordinates to the parabola such as KM, to the sum of as many circles generated by the ordinates to the rectangle such as K's; or as the sum of all the squares described on the ordinates KM to the sum of as many squares described on the ordinates KT. Draw BG cut ting MK in s. The square on MK is to the square on B.C. or TK as the abfcifla GK to the absciffa GC (by the nature of the parabola), or as sk to B.C.; because sk and bcare respectively equal togk andgc. 1 herefore the sum of all the squares on ordinates, such as MK, is to the sum of as many squares ou ordinates, such as TK, as the sum of all the lines sk to the film of as many lines TK; that is, as the triangle BGC to the rectangle BOGC; that is, as one to two : and therefore the impulse on the sphere is one half of the direct impulse on its great circle. 
From the same construction we may very easily deduce a very curious and seemingly usesul truth, that of all conical bodies having the circle whose diameter is AB (fig. 2.) for its base, and FD for its height, the one which sustains the finallest impulse or meets with the smallest resistance is the frustum AGHB of a cone ACB so constructed, that EF being taken equal to ED, EA is equal to EC. This frustum, though more capacious than the cone AFB of the same height, will be less resisted. 
Also, if the solid generated by the revolution 
of 
BDAC (fig. 4.) have its anterior part covered with 
3 frustum of a cone generated by the linea Da, 
a 
A, 
