ties . He published many books, which Teiffier eou merates. ramus’s merit in his opposition to Aristotle, and his sirmness in undermining his authority, is unque stionably great. But it has been doubted, and with much reason, whether he was equally successful in his attempts after a new logical institute. we have the following general outline of his plan in Dr enfield’s History of Philosophy. “Considering dialectics as the art of deducing conclusions from premises, he endeavours to improve this art, by uniting it with that of rhetoric. Of the several branches of rhetoric, he con siders invention and disposition as belonging equally to logic. Making Cicero his chief guide, he divides his treatise on dialectics into two parts, the sirst of which treats of the invention of arguments, the second of judgments. Arguments he derives not only from what the Aristotelians call middle terms, but from any kind of proposition, which, connected with another, may serve to prove any assertion. Of these he enumerates various kinds. Judgments he divides into axioms, or seff evi dent propositions, and 
diano'èa, 
or deductions by means of a series of arguments. Both these he divides into various classes;; illustrates the whole by examples from the ancient orators and poets. 
"In the logic of Ramus, many things are borrowed from Aristotle, and only appear under new names; and many others are derived from other Grecian sources, particularly from the dialogues of Plato, and the logic of the stoics. The author has the merit of turning the art of reasoning from the futile speculations of the schools to forensic and common use; Jmt his plan is defective in confining the whole dialectic art to the single object of disputation, and in omitting many things, which respect the general culture of the understanding and the investigation of truth. Notwithstanding the defects of his system, we cannot, however, subscribe to the severe censure which has been passed upon Ramus by Lord Bacon and others; for much is, we think, due to him for having with so much sirmness and perseverance asserted the natural freedom of the human understanding. The logic of Ramus obtained great authority in the schools of Germany, Great Britain, Holland, and France; and long and violent contests arose between his followers and those of the stagyrite, till his fame vanished before that of Descartes.” 
RAN, in the old English writers, means open or public robbery, so manifest as not to be denied. Ran 
dicitur aperta rapina qua negari non poteß. 
Lamb. 125. Leg canut, cap. 58. Hence it is now commonly said of one who takes the goods of another injarioussy and violently, that he has taken or snatched all he could 
rap 
andh 
ran. 
RANA, or Ranula. see Ranula. 
