nöt to he sitting at the time, he was bound 
to 
let 
the 
’enemy advance without opposition till he had convened his orators, dispcrsed over 24, 000 square leagues, and listened to their metaphysical quibbles in Paris. 
On the 19th June, a very singular farce was acted in the Assembly. 
A 
Prussian refugee, who called 
himself 
Anacharsis Clouts, and who was struggling hard 
to 
bring himself into public notice, on an evening sitting (which, it is to be observed, was generally ill attended by the persons of the highest rank), introduced to thc Assembly a number of persons dressed in the different habits of all the different .countries that could he thought of. In a formal harangue, he told the Assembly that he was come, as the 
orator of the human race, 
at the head of the representatives of all nations, to congratu late them upon the formation ef their new constitution. He was answered by the President with abundance of solemnity, and retired with his motley group. This santassical piece of folly, which in any other country than France would scarcely, perhaps, have excited a smile, was treated by the Assembly in a serious light. Alexander Lameth proposed, that the figures of diffe rent nations exhibited in chains at the feet of Louis XIV shouid be destroyed as an insult upon mankind. 
M. 
Lambel, a lawyer, at this moment proposed the 
abolition of all hereditary titles. 
He was supported by Lafayette, st Fargêau, and the Viscount de Noailles. The decree was passed, along with another suppreffing all armorial bearings. It is our intention at present rather to state facts than to hazard any political opinion concerning the wisdom or folly of the transactions which we record. It may here, however, be remarked, that no part of the proceedings of the French National as sembly was received by persons of rank upon the Continent of Europe with so much indignation as this. — The feudal system had been overturned, and the property of the church wrested from it, with little com parative notice; but when those nominal distinctions were attacked which antiquity had sanctioned, and per sonal vanity rendered dear, the surrounding nations were instantly alarmed, and beheld with terror the levelling precedent, we may like wise add, that no part of their proceedings was more inimical to rational and prac tical freedom. To preserve a perfect equality of ranks is impossible. In a commercial nation, industry will procure wealth, and wealth will everywhere procure ■dependents. Now nothing more contributes to keep within some tolerable bounds the insolence of newly acquired wealth, than the rank attached to birth and nobility, which time and prejudice have conspired to make respectable. It is not a little remarkable, that of all the king’s ministers, Neckar alone, a plebeian, a republican, born and bred in a democracy, advised his Majesty to refuse his assent to this foolish decree, as a violent but useless encroachment upon the prejudices of a powerful order of the state. 
In the mean time, the capital was entirely engrossed by hurry and bustle. M. Bailly had proposed a plan for commemorating the anniversary oss she taking of the Bastile. It was adopted, because it flattered the vanity of the people, by presenting them with a splendid spectacle in commemoration of their own exertions. 
• — The army had been much disorganised; and it was resolved to attempt to unite all its branches, as well as 
she 
whole departments of the state, ia onc common attachment 
to 
the new order of things, by collecting into one place deputations, sor the purpose of swearing fidelity to the new constitution. In the middle of the Champ de Mars an altar was erected, at which the ci vic oath, as it was called, was to be taken. Around the altar an amphitheatre was thrown up capable of containing 
400, 000 
spectators; 
2000 
workmen were em ployed in this operation; and thc people of Paris, fear ing lest die plan might not be completed, assisted ia the labour. All ranks of persons, thc nobles, clergy, and even ladies, with the eagerness for novelty so pe culiar to that people, united their efforts. Crowds of foreigners as well as natives hurried to the capital to be prefect at this solemnity, which was called the 
Confederation. 
The long expected 14th of July at length armed. At six o’clock in the morning the procession was ananged on the Boulevards, and consisted of the electors of the city of Paris, the representatives of thc commons, the administrators of the municipality, a battalion of children, with 
a 
standard, inscribed " The hopes the nation; ” deputies from the troops of France wherever quartered, and of every order, along w ith deputies from ali the departments; to these were added immense detachments of the military, and of the national guards, along with an almost infinite multitude of drums, trumpets, and musical instruments. The procession was extremely splendid, as every district had ir peculiar decorations. The national assembly passed through a grand triumphal arch, and the king and queen, attended by the foreign ministers, were placed in a superb box. After a solemn invocation to God, thc King approached the altar, and, amidst the deepest silence, took the following oath : " I the King of the French do swear to the nation, that I will employ thc whole power delegated to me by the constitutional law of the state, to maintain the constitution, and enforce the execution of the law.” The president of the national assembly then went up to the altar, and took the civic oath, “I swear to be faithful to the nation, the law, and the king; and to maintain with ali my powers the constitution decreed by the national assembly, and accepted by the king?’ Every member of the assembly standing up, said, “That I swear.” Lafayette then advancing, took the oath for himself; the other deputies of the national guards pronouncing after him, “s hat I swear; ” and these words were solemnly pronounced by every individual of this immense assembly. 
Te Deum 
was then sung. The performance was sublime beyond the powers of description. Never perhaps be sore was there such an orchestra, or such an audience : their numbers baffled the eye to reckon, and their shouts in full chorus rent the skies. It is impossible to enu merate all the means which were employed to add splcn dor to this day. It ended with a general illumination, and no accident disturbed the public tranquillity. 
'she assembly now proceeded in the formation of the constltutlon with considerable tranquillity; which, how ever, wa disturbed by an unhappy event at Nancv. Most of the officers of the army were unfriendly to the late revolution, and every means bad been employed by them to disgust the soldiers with it. At Nancy, in particular, necessaries had been denied them, and their pay was kept back, under pretence that this was the will of thc national assembly. Driven to despair, thc 
regiments in garrisou threw off their allegiance, and de 
