then the 
ordinary theory will furnish maxims of construction which will be very serviceable. This will be attempted in its proper place; and we shall endeavour, in our treatment of all the practical questions, to derive useful information from all that has been delivered on the present occasion. 
resolution 
Ideas. 
see 
Logic, 
Parti, ch. 3, 
Resolution, in music. To 
resolve 
a diseord or dis sonauce, says Rousseau, is to carry it according to rule into a consonance in the subsequent chord. There is for that purpose a procedure prescribed, both for the fundamental bass of the dissonant chord, and for the part by which the dissonance is formed. 
There is no possible manner of resolving a disso nance which is not derived srom an operation of cadence: it is then by the kind of cadence which we wish to form, that the motion of the fundamental bass is de termined, (see Cadence), with respect to the part by which the dissbnance is formed, it ought neither to continue in its place, nor to move by disjointed gradations;; to rise or descend diatonically, accord ing to the nature of the dissonance. Theorists say, that major diffonances ought to rise, and minor to descend;; is not however without exception, since in particular chords of harmony, a seventh, although major, ought not to rise, but to descend, unless in that chord which is, very incorrectly, called 
the chord of the seventh redundant. 
It is better then to say, that the seventh and all its derivative diffonances ought to descend; and that the sixth superadded, and all its de rivative diffonances, should rise. This is a rule truly general, and without any exception. It is the same cafe with the rule of resolving diffonances. There are some diffonances which cannot be prepared; but there is by no means one which ought not to be resolved. 
with respect to the sensible note, improperly called a 
major dissonance, 
if it ought to ascend, this is less on account of the rule for resolving diffonances, than on account of that which prescribes a diatonic procedure, and prefers the sholtest road; and in reality, there are cases, as that of the interrupted cadence, in which this sensible note does not ascend. 
In chords by supposition, one single chord often produces two diffonances; as the seventh and ninth, the ninth and fourth, c Then these two diffonances ought to have been prepared, and both must likewise be resolved; it is because regard should be paid to everything which is diseordant, not only in the fun damental, but even in the continued bass. 
Resolution, in chemistry, the reduction of a mixed body into its component parts or sirst principles, as far as can be done by a proper analysis. 
Resolution, in medicine, the disappearing of any tumour without coming to suppuration or forming an abscess. 
resolvents, in medicine, such as are proper sor dissipating tumours, without allowing them to come to suppuration. 
resonance, Resounding, in music, ca 

sound returned by the air enclosed in the bodies of stringed instruments, such as lutes, cor even in the bodies of wind instruments, as flutes, c. 
respiration, the act of respiring or breathing 
the air. see 
Anatomy, n 118. Blood, 
n 29. 
Medicine, 
n 104. 
Physiology, sect. i.and 
Pvtrefac« 
tion 
passim, 
respirationo/fi/lses. 
see Ichthyology, n, 8, 9. 
respite, in law, signifies a delay, forbearance, cr prolongation of time, granted to any one for the pay ment of a debt or the like. see Reprieve. 
respondent, in the sehools, one who main tains a thesis in any art or seience; who is thus called from his being to answer all the objections proposed by the opponent. 
respondentia. see Bottomry. 
response, an answer or reply. A word chiefly used in speaking of the answers made by the people to the priest, in the litany, the psalms, c. 
ressort, a Stench word, sometimes used by en glish authors to signify the jurisdiction of a court, and particularly one from which there is no appeal. — Thus it is said, that the house of lords judge 
en dernier ressort, 
or in the last ressort. 
rest, the continuance of a body in the same place, or its continual application or contiguity to the same parts of the ambient or contiguous bodies; and therefore is opposed to motion. see the article Motion. 

Rest, in poetry, is a short pause of the voice 
in 
reading, being the same with the cæfura, which, in Alexandrine verses, falls on the sixth syllable; but in verses of 
10 
or II syllables, on the fourth. see Poetry, Part III 
rest harrow, or Cammock, 
the Chtonis ar venff. 
A decoction of this plant has been much re commended to horses labouring under a stoppage of urine. It is the pest of some cornfields;; in its younger state, before the plant has acquired its thorns, it is a most acceptable food to sheep. 
restaura ΓΙΟΝ, the act of reestablishing 
er 
setting a thing or person in its former good state. 
rest 10, in botany; a genus of the triandria order, belonging to the diœcia class of plants. The male calyx is an ovate spike of membranaceous seales; the corolla is proper, hexapetalous, and persistent. The southeast male calyx and corolla are as in the male; the germen is roundish, and sex sulcated; there are three erect and persistent slyles; the capsule is roundish, with six plaits, and is rostrated and trilocular; the seeds are oblong and cylindrical. 
restitution, in a moral and legal sense, is restoring a person to his right, or returning something unjustly taken or detained from him. 
Restitution of Medals, 
or 
Rtffituted Medals, 
is a term used by antiquaries for such medals as were struck by the emperors, to retrieve the memory of their pre dect’sfors. 
Hence, su several medals, we sind the letters rest. This practice was sirst begun by Claudius, by his stri king afresh several medals of Augustus. Nero did the same; and Titus, after his father’s example, struck re stitutions of most of his predecessois. Gallienus struck a general restitution of all the preceding emperors on two medals; the one bearing an altar, the other an eagle, without the rest. 
restive, or Re sty, in the manege, a stubborn? unruly, ill broken horse, that stops, or runs back, instead of advancing forward. 
