on the minds of his followers. Paradise was to abound with rivers, trees, fruits, and shady groves; wine which would not intoxicate was to be there plentifully served up to believers; the inhabitants of that happy region were all to enjoy perpetual youth; and their powers of enjoyment were to be enlarged and invigorated, in order that so many fine things might not be thrown away upon them. " Instead of inspiring the blessed inhabitants of paradise with a liberal taste for harmony and science, conversation, and friendship (says Mr Gibbon), Mahomet idly celebrates the pearls and diamonds, the robes of silk, palaces of marble, dishes of gold, rich wines, artificial dainties, numerous attendants, and the whole train of sensual luxury. — seventy two houris, or black eyed girls of resplendent beauty, blooming youth, virgin purity, and exquisite sensibility, will be created sor the use of the meanest believer; a moment of pleasure will be prolonged for i ooo years, and his faculties will be increased ioo sold, to render him worthy of his felicity.” It must be acknowledged that lie allows believers other more refined enjoyments than these; thus they are to see the face of God morning and evening; a pleasure which is far to exceed all the other pleasures of paradise. The following is his description of the punishments of hell : The wicked are there to drink nothing but boiling stinking water; breathe nothing but hot winds; dwell for ever in continual burning sire and smoke;; nothing but briers and thorns, and the fruit of a tree that rifeth out of the bottom of hell, whose branches resemble the heads of devils, and whose fruits shali be in their bellies like burning pitch. 
All that we can conclude from a general view of the religion of Mahomet, from considering the character of the prophet, er from reviewing the history of the nations among whom it has been established, is, that it is one tissue of absurdities, with a few truths, however, and valuable precepts incongruousiy intermixed; that a great part of it is unfavourable to virtuous manners, to wife and equal laws, and to the progress of knowledge and refinement. It often inculcates in a direct manner sentiments that are highly immoral; it substitutes trifling, superstitious observances in the room of genuine piety and moral virtue; and it gives such views of futurity as render purity of heart no necessary qualification for feeing God. 
surely, therefore, even the deist, who rejects all but natural religion, would not hesitate to prefer Christianity, and even Jndaism, to the religion of Mahomet, judaism, calculated for a peculiar people, was undoubtedly much more sublime and much more happily framed to render that people virtuous and·happy in the circumstances in which they were placed; and Christianity vve find to be an universal religion, suited to all circumstances and to all the stages of society, and acting, wherever it is received, with more or lets'force to the support of civil order, virtuous manners, improvement of arts, and the advancement of smence. However, as Mâhometanifm forms in some measure a regular sysc tem, as it has borrowed many of the precepts and doe trines of judaism and Christianity, not indeed without corrupting and degrading them; and as it has contributed considerably to the support of civil government, although in a very imperfect form, in those countries in which it has obtained 
an establishment; 
for all these 
reasons we canaot but give it the preference to the superstitions of Paganism. 
The whole result of our inquiries under this article, therefore, is, 
I. 
That as man, by the constitution of his mind, is naturally fitted for acquiring certain no tions concerning the existence of invisible, superior be ings, and their influence on human life; so the reli gious ideas which we find to have in all ages of the world, and in all the different ssages of the progress of society, prevailed among mankind, appear to have originated partly from the nètural exertions of the human imagination, understanding, and passions, in various cir ~ cumstances, and partly from supernatural revelation. 
2. 
That though religious opinions, together with the moral precepts, and the rites of worship connected with them, may appear to have been in numerous instances injurious to the virtue and happiness of society; yetr as they have often contributed to lead the mind to form moral distinctions, when it would otherwise in all probability have been an entire stranger to such distinctions; and as they have always contributed in an essential manner to the establishment and the support of civil government — it must therefore be acknowledged that they have always, even in their humblest state.. more beneficial than hurtful to mankind. 
3. That when the different systems of religion that have prevailed in the world are comparatively viewed with respect to their influence 011 the welsare of society, we find reason to prefer the polytheism of the Greeks and Romans to the ruder, wilder, religious ideas and ceremonies that have prevailed among savages; maho metanism, perhaps in some respects, to the polytheism of the Greeks and Romans; Judaism however to mahometanism;; Christianity to all of them. 
religious, in a general sense, something that relates to religion. — we say, a religious life, religious society, c— — and church yards’are religious places. — A religious war is also calied a 
croisade. 
see ' 
cro1saoe. 
Religious, is also used .substantially for a person engaged by solemn vows to the monastic life; or a person shut up in a monastery to lead a life of devotion and anfterity, under some rule or institution. The male religious we popularly call 
monks 
and 
friars; 
the female, 
nuns 
and 
canonejses. 
REMBRANDT (Van Rhin), a Flemish painter and engraver of great eminence, was born in 1606, in a mill upon the banks of the Rhine, from whence he derived his name of 
Van Rhin. 
This master was born with a creative genius, which never attained perfection. It was said of him, that he" would have invent" ed painting, if he had not found it already discovered, without study, without the assistance of any master, but by his own instinctj he formed rules, and a certain practical method sor colouring; and the mixture produced the desigaed effect. Nature is not set off to the greatest advantage in his pictures; but there is such. a striking truth and simplicity in them,. that his heads, particularly his - portraits, ·. seem animated, and rising from the canvas. He was fond of strong contrasts of light and 'shade The light entered in his working room only by a hole, in the manner of a camera obscura, by which he judged with greater certainty of his produc= 
■ tions... This artist considered painting like the stage, 
