citizens , from whom loud clamours and every mark of diiapprobation broke forth. All Versailles was speedily in an uproar. M. Neckar had repeatedly solicited his disrniffion, and the report of this had increased the po pular clamour. The court was in consternation. The king probably discovered, with no great satisfaction, that his minister was more popular than himself. At six o’clock in the evening the queen sent for M. nec kar. when he returned from the palace, he affined the crowd that waited for him that he would not abandon them; upon which they retired satisssed. At the same time the news of the royal session had thrown the city of Paris into violent agitation. The peace of that ca pital was at this time endangered by a variety of causes. A dreadful famine raged through the land, which in a great city is usually most severely felt. This prepared the minds of men for receiving unfavourable impressions of their political state. Every effort was more over made to disorganize the government, and produce a dissike to the ancient order of things. The press poured forth innumerable publications, filled with new and seducing, though generally impracticable, theories of liberty. These were dissributed £/·«/» among the bulk of the people of Paris, and dispersed in the same manner through the provinces. Philip duke of or leans (presumptive heir to the crown failing the chil dren and brothers of the king) is with good reason believed to have supplied this expense out of his more than royal revenues. In the gardens of the Palais Royal at Paris, which belonged to him, an immense multitude was daily assembled, listening from morning tonight to orators who descanted upon the most violent subjects of popular politics. Many of these orators were suspected to be in his pay. It was even believed that his money found its way into the pockets of some of the most distinguished leaders in the national assembly. 
But the government was, if possible, still more dan gerousiy assaulted by the methods now generally used to seduce the military. Every officer of the French army belonged to the order of the nobles; and from that quarter, therefore, it might have been imagined that there was little danger. But this very circumstance became the means of disorganizing that great engine of despotism. As the soldiers could not avoid imbibing some of the new opinions, their own officers became the sirst objects of their jealousy; especially in consequence of that impolitic edict of Louis XVI which required every officer to produce proofs of four degrees of nobi iity; and thus insulted, by avowedly excluding the pri vate men from promotion. Perhaps with a view to what might happen, the instructions to the deputies of the 
tiers etak 
had recommended an increase of the p y of the soldiers. And now at Paris every art was used to gain them to the popular cause. They were conducted to the Palais Royal, and were there caressed and flattered by the populace, while they listened to the po pular harangues. These arts were successsul. On the 23d of June they first refused to fire on the mob in a riot. some of them were on the 30th reported to be 
in confinement for this offence; a crowd instantly col lected, and rescued them, the dragoons that were brought to suppress the tumult grounding their arms : a deputation of the citizens solicited of the assembly the pardon of the prisoners. The assembly applied to the king, who pardoned them accordingly. 
All these events, together with the tumultuous state of the capital, which was daily increasing, made it necessary for the king to call out the military force to restore, if possible, the public peace. That his intentions were pure, the then state of affairs will permit no man but a democrate to doubt; but the aristocracy, with the Count d’artois at their head, were bringing forward other measures, which ultimately contributed to the ruin of themselves, the king, and the kingdom. Crowds of soldiers were collected from all parts of the kingdom around Paris and Versailles. It was observed, 
. that these consisted chiefly of foreign mercenaries. Camps were traced out. Marshal Broglio, a tried ve teran, was sent for and placed at the head of the army. The king was supposed to have entirely yielded to new counsels, and everything bore the appearance of a de sperate effort to restore the energy of the ancient government. This is tile most important period of the French revolution; yet the specisic designs of the leading actors have never been clearly understood. It was rumoured at the time, that Paris was to be subdued by a siege and bombardment; that the assembly was to be disfolved, and its leaders put to death. These are in 
credible exaggerations; but the crisis of French liberty was universally regarded as at hand, and also the exist ence of the national assembly as an independent body; or at least upon any other footing than that proposed by the king on the 23d of June. 
An able and eloquent address to the king against the assemblage of foreign troops in their neighbourhood was brought forward by Mirabeau, and voted by the assembly. The king properly replied, that the state of the capital was the cause of assembling the troops, and offered to transfer the states-general to Noyons or soissons“ “will neither remove (exclaimed Mirabeau) to Noyons nor to soissons;; will not place ourselves between two hostile armies, that which is besieging pa ris and that which may sali upon us from Flanders or Alsace; we have not allied pei million to run away from the troops; we have desired that the troops should be ' removed from the capital.” 
Ί hirty sive thousand men were now stationed in the neighbourhood of Paris and Versailles. The posts were occupied which commanded the city, and camps were marked out for a greater force. The Count d’artois and his party regarded their plans as ripe for execution;; M. Neckar received a letter from the king, requiring him to quit the kingdom in 24 hours. That popular a) minister took the route of Brussels on the foliowing day, when his departure was made public. In his dismission the' popular, or as it was now called the 
democratic, 
party thought they saw the resolution ■ to accomplish their ruin. The assembly again addressed the throne; they requested anew the removal 
a) Popular he certainly was; but he either had not fortitude and talents to execute his own plans, or acted a base part .to. his amiable master. From baseness we acquit him. 
