Proportion of the Rain of the fiver al southeast afin; to one another. 
170s 
Depth at Pisa. 
Depth at Uptliins. 
Depth at Zurich. 
1708 
Depth at Pisa. 
Depth at Upmins 
Depthat 
Zurich. 
Jan. 
Inch. 
6 .41 
Inch. 
2 .88 
Inch. 
I .64 
July 
Inch. 
O .00 
Inch. 
1 .11 
Inch. 
3 5° 
Feb. 
3 -28 
0 .46 
1 .65 
Aug. 
2 .27 
2 .94 
3 
-15 
Mar. 
2 .65 
2 .03 
1 -51 
sept. 
7 .21 
1 .46 
3 °2 
April 
I .25 
0 .96 
4 ·6 9 
Oct. 
5 
'33 
0 ·2 3 
2 
.44 
May 
3 -33 
2 .02 
i .91 
Nov. 
0 B 
0 .86 
0 .62 
June 
4 «9° 
2 .32 
; 91 
Dec. 
0 .00 
1 -97 
2 
.62 
Half 
Year 
21 .82 
IO .67 
!7 -31 
Half 
Year 
_ 
H -94 
8 -57 
1 5 '35 
see Philosophical Transactions abridged, vol. IV p. II p. 8i, c. and also Meteorological Journal of the Royal society, published annually in the Philosophical Transactions. 
As to the use of rain, we may observe, that it moi stens and softens the earth, and thus fits it for affording nourishment to plants; by falling on high mountains, it carries down with it many particles of loose earth, which serve to fertilise the surrounding valleys, and purifies the air from noxious exhalations, which tend in their return to the earth to meliorate the soil; it moderates the heat of the air; and is one means of supplying foun tains and rivers. However, vehement rains in many .countries are found to be attended with barrenness and poorness of the lands, and miscarriage of the crops in the succeediilg year : and the reason is plain; for these ex cessive storms wash away the fine mould into the rivers, which carry it into the sea, and it is a long time before the land recovers itself again. The remedy to the fa mine, which some countries are subject to from this sort of mischief, is the planting large orchards and groves of such trees as bear esculent fruit; for it is an old ob servation, that in years, when grain succeeds worst, these trees produce moil fruit of all. It may partly be owing to the thorough moistening of the earth, as deep us their roots go by these rains, and partly to their trunks rtopping part of the light mould carried down by the rains, and by this means furnishing themselves with a coat of new earth. 
Preternatural Rains, 
we have numerous accounts, in the historians of our own as well as other countries, of preternatural rains; such as the raining of stones, of dust, of blood, nay, and of living animals, as young frogs, and the like. W 
e 
are not to doubt the truth of what those who are authors of veracity and credit relate to us of this kind, so far as to suppose that the falling of stones and dust never happened; the whole mistake is, the supposing them to have fallen from the clouds : but as to the blood and frogs, it is very certain that they never fell at all, but the opinion has been a mere deception of the eyes. Men are extremely fond of the marvellous in their relations; but the judicious reader is to examine strictly whatever is reported of this kind, and is not to iuffer himself to be deceived. 
There are two natural methods by which quantities of stones and dust may fall in certain places, without their having been generated in the clouds or fallen as rain. The one is by means of hurricanes : the wind which we frequently see tearing off the tiles of houses, and carrying them to considerable distances, being equally able to take up a quantity of stones, and drop them again at some other place. But the other, which is much 
the most powerful, and 
probably the 
moil usual way, 
is for the eruptions of volcanoes and burning 
mountaina 
to toss up, as they frequently do, 
a 
vast quantity of stones, ashes, and cinders, to an immense height in the air : and these, being hurried away by the hurricanes and impetuous winds which usually accompany those eruptions, and being in themselves much lighter than common stones, as being half calcined, may easily be thus carried to vast distances; and there falling in pla ces where the inhabitants know nothing of the occasion, they cannot but he supposed by the vulgar to fall on them from the clouds. It is well known, that, in the great eruptions of Ætna and Vesuvius, showers of ashes, dust, and small cinders, have been seen to obscure the air, and overspread the surface of the sea for a areat way, and cover the decks of ships; and this at such a distance, as it should appear scarce conceivable that they should have been carried to : and probably, if the ac counts of all the showers of these substances mentioned by authors be collected, they will all be found to have fallen within such distances of volcanoes; and if compared as to the time of their falling, will be found to correspond in that also with the eruptions of those mountains. ave have known instancesof the ashes from Vesuvius having been carried thirty, nay, forty leagues, and peculiar accidents may have carried them yet farther. It is not to be supposed that these showers of stones and dust fall for a continuance m the manner of showers of rain, or that the fragments or pieces are as frequent as drops of water; it is sufficient that a number of stones, or a quantity of dust, fall at once on a place, where the inhabitants can have no knowledge of the part from whence they came, and the vulgar will not doubt their dropping from the clouds. Nay, in the canton of Berne in swisserland, the inhabitants accounted it & miracle that it rained earth and sulphur upon them at a time that a small volcano tcrrified them; and even while the wind was so boisterous, and hurricanes so frequent, that they saw alroost every moment the dust, fand, and little stones torn up from the surface of the earth in whirlwinds, and carried to a considerable height in the air, they never consider«d that both the sulphur thrown up by the volcano, and the dust, c. carried from their feet must fall soon after somewhere. It is very certain that in some of the terrible itorms of large hail, where the hail stones have been of many inches round, on breaking them there have been found what people have called 
stones in their middle; 
but these observers needed only to have waited the dissolving of one of these hail stones, to have seen the storie in its centre disunite also, it being only formed of the parti cles of loose earthy matter, which the water, exhaled by the fun’s heat, had taken up in extremely small moleculae with it; and this only having served to give an opaque hue to the inner part of the congelation, to which the freezing of the water alone gave the apparent hard ness of stone. 
The raining of 
blood 
has been ever accounted a more terrible sight and a more fatal omen than the other preternatural rams already mentioned. It ls very certain that nature forms blood nowhere but in the vessels of animals; and therefore showers of it from the clouds are by no means to be credited. Those who suppose that what has been taken for blood has been actually seen falling through the air, have had rtcourse to flying insects for its origin, and suppose it the eggs or dung of 
