our Lord soretels that the third day after his death he shall rise from the grave. Here no place was reserved sor deception. The sect of the Pharisees and the chief priests are openly warned and put upon their guard; and, very fortunately for the cause of Christianity, this singular prediction was not heard with scorn, or indeed, if with scorn, it was only affected, we know from the sentiments expressed in the council, that our Lord was secretly dreaded by the rulers; that his miracles were far from being discredited; and that his predictions, in their private opinion, were not to be slighted. The means accordingly which they employed to prevent, even in the very appearance, the completion of his prophecy, were admirably calculated to remove the scruples of the most wary and sceptical inquirers, if their object was only to seaich after truth. At the next festival of the pasa over, when the scheme of Caiaphas was put in execution, and when it was deemed expedient by the council that he should die, to save the nation from the jealousy of the Romans; as a proof of their steady loyalty to Rome he was apprehended, was tried as an enemy to her government, was at last condemned upon false evidence, and suspended on a cross until they were fully satisfied of his death. Even after his death, the spear of a soldier was thrust into his side; and the water that gushed out with the blood is a proof to those who are acquainted with the structure and economy of living bodies, that he must have been some time dead. 
After he was taken down from the cross, a seal was put on the door of the sepulchre in which he was laid, as the best check against secret fraud; and a guard of soldiers was stationed around it, as the best security against open violence. In spite, however, of all these precautions, the prediction was accomplished; the angel of God, descending from heaven with a countenance like lightning, and with raiment white as snow; the watch shake, and become as dead men; the earth quakes; the stone is rolled from the mouth of the sepulchre; thç angel sits on it, and our Lord comes forth. 
It was in vain for the Jews to allege that his disciples came in the night, and stole him away, while the watch were asseep. One must smile at these puerile as sertions. How came the disciples to know that the watch were asseep; or what excuse had the watch for sseeping, and incurring a punishment which they knew 
to 
be capital in the Roman law? and how came they, in the name of wonder, to be brought as an evidence for those transactions that happened at the time when they were asseep? 
whatever credit may be given by modern infidels to this ill framed ssory, it is past dispute that it had none among the Jewish rulers at the time that it was current. Not long after our saviour’s resurrection, the apostles were called before the council, and threatened with death for teaching in the name of Jesus. Their bold ness upon that occasion was so provoking to the rulers, that the threat would have been instantly put in execu tion, bad not Gamaliel, a doctor of the law of high re putation, put them in mind of other impostors who had perished in their attempts to misiead the people; and concluded a very sensible speech with these remarkable words : " And now, I say unto yon, refrain from these men, and let them alone; for if this counsel, or this work, be of men, it will come to nought j but 
if it be 
of God, 
ye cannot overthrow it, lest haply ye be sound even to light against God.” This advice the council followed. But is it possible that Gamaliel could have given it, or the council paid the least regard to it, had the story of the disciples stealing the body been then credited? surely some among them would have obser ved, that a work or counsel, founded on imposture and fraud, could not be 
suppojed to be of God, 
and they .would unquestionably have siain the apostles. 
The story of stealing the body is indeed one of the most senseless fictions that ever was invented in support of a bad cause. Our Lord was on earth 40 days after he arose. He appeared frequently to his disciples. Hc ate and drank in their presence; and wlien some of them doubted, he bade them handle him and see that he was not a spectre, showed the mark of the spear in his side, and the prints of the nails in his feet and hands. be sides thus appearing to his disciples, he was seen by more than 500 brethren at one time; all of whom, as well as his disciples, must necessarily have known him previous to his suffering, and could therefore attest that he was the person who was once dead, but was then alive. Yet for strangers in general, who had not seen him previous to his death, and could not therefore iden tify his person aster he arose, our Lord reserved many other proofs that were equally convincing. Before his ascension, lie bade his disciples wait till they received power, by the Holy Ghost descending upon them : That then they should be witnesses with him, both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in samaria, and unto the uttermost ends of the earth; in order that the people of all these nations, observing the miracles wrought in his name, might themselves become ocular witnesses that those who preached his resurrection were warranted to do fo by his authority; and that this au thority, on which so numerous miracles attended, must be divine. 
we intend not here to examine the minute objections and cavils that have been advanced respecting the truth of this important fact. The kinds, however, we shall mention iu general. some have doubted of our lord’s resurrection, as being an event which is not confirmed by general experience, because they imagine that what happens once should happen again, and even repeatedly, in order to be true. some, taking their own to be pre ferable schemes, have objected to the way in which it happened, and to the manner in which it is narrated. — some have imagined, that possibly the gospel hissory may be false; that possibly the disciples were very ig norant, and might be deceived; that possibly, too, they were deep politicians, and a set of impostors; and that possibly the writings which detected their falsehoods may have been destroyed. It is difficult to reason, and worse to convince, against this evidence of possibilities: : we flatter ourselves, that to the candid reader it will appear sufficiently overturned in our article Miracle; where it is shown that neither clowns nor politicians could have a ted the part that was acted by the apostles, had not the resurrection been an undoubted fact. 
some of the objectors to it have also maintained, that possibly there is nothing material without us, that there is nothing mental within us, and that possibly the whole world is ideas. This mode of arguing we pretend not to explain; it is thought by some to proceed entirely 
from a 
perverseness of mind or disposition, whiic 
in 
books 
