ties which multiplied together produce unity. 
Thus 
- and 
X y 
and -, are reciprocal quantities. Likewise 
X y 
— is said to he the reciprocal of 
X 
which is again the re 
& 
of —. 
Reciprocal Figures, 
in geometry, those which baye the antecedents and consequents of the same ratio in both figures. _.. 
Reciprocal Proportion, 
is when in four numbers the fourth is less than the second by so much as the third is greater than the sirst, and 
vice versa. 
see Proportion and Arithmetic, chap. VI Great use is made of this reciprocal proportion by sir Isaac Newton and others, in demonstrating the laws of motion. 
RECITAL, in law, means the rehearsal or making mention in a deed or writing of something which has been done before. 
RECITATIVO, or Recitative, in music, a kind of singing, that differs but little from ordinary pronunciation; such as that in which the several parts of the liturgy are rehearsed in cathedrals; or that wherein the actors commonly deliver themselves on the theatre at the opera, when they are to express some action or passion;; relate some event; or reveal some design. 
reckenhausen, a strong town of Cologne, in Germany, in the middle territory of that name. The abbess of its nunnery’ has power of punishing [offenders with death, and she alone is obliged to the vow of chastity.. 
or 
a 
ships Reckoning, 
in navlga tion, is that account whereby at any time it may be known where the ship is, and on what course or courses she is to steer, in order to gain her port; and that ac count taken from the log board is called the 
dead reckoning. 
see Navigation. 
RECLAIMING, or Reclaming, in our ancient customs, a lord’s pursuing, prosecuting, and recalling, his vassal, who had gone to live in another place without his permission. 
Reclaiming is nlso used sor the demanding of a person, or thing, to be delivered up to the prince or state to which it properly belongs; when, by any irregular means, it is oome into another’s possession. 
Reclaiming, in falconry, is taming ahawk, &c.and making her gentle and familiar. 
A partridge is said to reclaim, when she calls her •young ones together, upon their scattering too much from her. 
RECLINATION of a plane in 
dialling. see 
Dialling. 
recluse, among the Papists, a person shut up in a small cell of an hermitage, or monastery, and cut off, not only srom all conversation with the world, but even with the house. This is a kind of voluntary im prisonment, srom a motive either of devotion or penance. 
The word ia also applied to incontinent wives, whom their husbands procure to be thus kept in ptrpetual im prisonment in some religious house. 
Recluses were anciently very numerous, They took an oath never to stir out of their retreat : and having entered it, the bishop set bis seal upon the door; and the recluse was to have everything necessary for the support 
of life conveyed to him through a window If 
he was a priest, 
he was 
allowed a small oratory, with a window, which looked into the church, through which he might make his offerings at the mass, hear the sing ing, and answer those who spoke to him; but this win dow had curtains before it, so that he could not be seen. He was allowed a little garden, adjoining to his cell, in which he might plant a few herbs, and breathe a little fresh air. Ifhe had disciples, their cells were contigu ous to his, with only a window of communication, through which they conveyed necessaries to him, and received his instructions. If a recluse fell sick, his door might be opened for persons to come in and assist him, but he himsels was not to stir out. 
RECOGNITION, in law, an acknowledgment; a word particularly used in our law books sor the sirst chapter of the statute L Jac. I. by which the parliament acknowledged, that, after the death of queen Elisabeth, the crown had rightfully descended to king James. 
RECOGNISANCE, in law, 
is 
an obligation of record, which a man enters into before some court of record or magistrate duly authoriscd, with condition to do some particular act; as to appear at the assizes, to keep the peace, to pay a debt, or the like. It is in most respects like another bond : the difference being chiefly this, that the bond is the creation of a sresh debt or obligation 
de novo, 
the recognisance is an acknowledgment of a former debt upon record; the form whereof is, " that A. B. doth acknowledge to owe to our lord the king, to the plaintiff, to C D. or the like, the sum of ten pounds, ” with condition to be void on performance of the thing stipulated : in which case the king, the plaintiff, C D. cis called the cognizee, 
is cui cognofcitur; 
as he that enters into the recognisance is called the cognizor, h 
qui cognoftit. 
This being certified to, or taken by the officer of some court, is wit nessed only by the record of that court, and not by the party’s seal : so that it is not in strict propriety a deed, though the effects of it are greater than a common obligation; being allowed a priority in point of payment, and binding the lands of the cogniaor from the time of enrolment on record. 
RECOIL, or Rebound, the starting backward of a fire arm after an explosion. Mersennus tells us, that a cannon 12 seet in length, weighing 6400 lb. gives a ball of 24 lb. an uniform velocity of 640 seet 
per 
southeast cond. Putting, therefore, W = 6400, 
w — 
14, V = 640, and 
V ~ 
the velocity with which the cannon recoils; we shall have (because the momentums of the cannon 
wv 
and ball are equal) W 
V — w 
V; and so 
V — — 
, 2 st X = 2, 4. · that is, it would recoil at the rate of 6400 
scet 
per 
second, if free to move. 
RECOLLECTION, a mode of thinking, by which ideas sought after by the mind are sound and brought to view. 
RECONNOITRE, in military affairs, implies to view and examine the state of things, in order to make a report thereof. 
Parties ordered to reconnoitre are to observe the country and the enemy; to remark the routes, conveniences, and inconveniences of the sirst; the position, march, or forces of the second. In either case, they should Irave an expert geographer? capable cs taking 
