o’clock in the afternoon, the thermometer stood 
at 114* 
in the shade, and in the evening at 82°; though at sunrise it had been no higher than 61. notwithstand ing this appearance of extreme heat, however, the sen sation was by no means intolerable; they could hunt at midday, and felt the evenings rather cold. The soil is a fat, loose, black earth, which our author says is the same from 13° to 1 6° of north latitude; at least till we come to the deserts of Atbara, where the tropical rains cease. This country divides that of the shan galla into two parts, nearly equal. These people in habit a belt of land about 60 miles broad, all along the northern frontier of Abyssinia, excepting two large gaps or spaces which have been left open sor the sake of commerce, and which are inhabited by strangers, to keep the shangalla in awe. The latter trade in gold, which they pick up in the streams as it is washed down from the mountains; for there are no mines in their country, neither is there any gold in Abyssinia, excepting what is imported from this or some other country’. The shangalla are the natural enemies of the inhabitants of ras el feel, and much blood has been shed in the various incursions they have made upon one another;; of late those of ras el feel, by the assistance of the emperors, have been enabled to keep the shangalla at bay. 
ras sem, a city of Tripoli in Barbary, concernmg which a number of fables were told by the Tripoline ambassador, all of which were believed in England and other parts of Europe in the beginning of this century. (see 
psrrikied city). 
Mr Bruce informs us, that it is situated about five days journey south from Bengazi; but has no water excepting one fountain, which has a disagreeable taste, and seems to be impregnated with alum. Hence it has obtained the name of 
ras sem, 
or the fountain of poison. The only remains of anti quity in this place consist of the ruins of a tower or fortification, which, in the opinion of Mr Bruce, is as late as the time of the Vandals; but he says he cannot imagine what use they made of the water, and they had no other within two days journey of the place. — Here our traveller saw many of the animals called 
jerboa, 
a kind of mice; which, he says, seem to par take as much of the nature of a bud as of a qua druped. 
rasay, one of the Hebrides Islands, is about 13 miles long and 2 broad. It contams y00 inhab liants, has plenty of limestone, freestone, -, seeds great numbers of black cattle; but has neither deers, hares, nor rabbits. The only appearance of a harbour in Rasay is at Clachan Bay, where Mr Macleod the proprietor of the island resides. Rasay presents a bold shore, which rises to the height of mountains; and here the natives have, with incredible labour, formed many little corn fields and patato grounds. These heights decrease at the south end, where there are some farms and a good-looking country. Mr Macleod is sole proprietor of thi» island, and of Rona and Fladda at the north end of it which are only proper for grazing. 
The house of Rasay is pleasantly situated near the southwest end of the island, which is the most level part of it. It has an extensive and excellent garden, and is surrounded with forest trees of considerable magnitude; another proof that trees will grow upon the edge of the sea, though it 
must 
be allowed that the 
son. In 1699, he married Marianne Testard; but this marriage neither abated his care of his pupil, nor pre vented his accompanying him in his travels.. Having sinished this employment, lie returned to his farm y, which he had settled at the Hague; and here he continued some years. But as he found hls family m crease, he resolved to retire to some cheap country; and accordingly removed, in 1 707, to wesel, where he wrote his History of England, and some other pieces. Thouoh he was of a strong constitutiort, yet seventeen years application (for so long was he in composing the history iust mentioned) entirely rushed hls health, sue died in 1725. He wrote in French, 
I. 
A Dissertation on the whigs and Tories. 2. Hls History of lng land, printed at the Hague in 1726 and 1727, m 9 vols 4to, and reprinted·at Trevoux m 1728, in 10 vols 4 to. This last edition is more complete than that ot the Hague. It has been translated into English, and improved with Notes, by the Reverend Mr Tindal, m 2 vols folio. This performance, though the work of a foreigner, is deservedly esteemed as the. fullest and most impartial collection of English political transactions extant. The readers of wit and vivacity, however, may be apt to complain of him for being sometimes rather tedious and dull. 
RAPINE, in law, the taking away another s goods 
c. by violence. ·, j 1 
rapperswil, a town of swisserland, on tiie 
confines of the canton of Zurich, and of the territory of Gaster, with an old castle. It is strong by situa tion, being seated on a neck of land which advances into the lake of Zurich, and over which there ls a bridge 850 paces long. It is subject to the cantons ot Zurich and Berne. È Long. 8. 5 7· N. Lat 47· 
rappolstein, a town of France m 
Upper Λ1 
sace, which, before the Revolution, had the title of a barony. All the musicians of Alsace likewsse depended upon this baron, and were obliged to pay linn a certain tribute, without which they could not play upon their instruments. E. Long. 7. 28. N. Lat. 48. 15. 
RAPTURE, an ecstasy or transport of mind, bee 
p? 
X TA 
s Y · 
RARE, in physic, stands opposed to dense; and de notes a body that is very porous, whose parts are at a great distance from one another, and which is supposed to contain but little matter under a large bulk. see the following article. 
RAREFACTION, m physics, the act whereby 
a 
body is rendered rare; that is, brought to possess more room, or appear under a larger bulk, without acces fion of any new matter. this is very frequently the effect of fire, as has long been umversally allowed. In many cases, however, philosophers have attnbuted 
it 
to the action of a repulsive principle. However, irom the many discoveries concernmg the nature and pio perties of the electric fluid and fire, there is the greatest reason to believe, that this repulsive principle is no other than elementary fire. see Repulsion. 
ras el feel, one of the frontier provinces ot A -- byffinia, of which the late celebrated traveller Mr Bruce was made governor while in that country. It is but of small extent, and in its most prosperous state con tained only 39 villages. The climate is extremely hot, in Mr bruce’s opinion one of the hottest m the world. He informs us, that on the first day of March, 
at 
three 
