found to be about I.,. 14, 477, -000, How these immense sums are appropriated, is next to be considered. And this is, sirst and principally, to the payment of the interest of the national debt. see 
National Debt 
and Funds. 
The respective produces of the several taxes were originally separate and distinct funds; being securities for the sums advanced on each several tax, and for them only. But at last it became necessary, in order to avoid confusion, as they multiplied yearly, to reduce the number of these separate funds, by uniting and blending them together; superadding the faith of parliament for the general security of the whole. so that there are now only three capital funds of any account, the 
aggregate 
fund, and the 
general 
fund, so called from such union and. addition; and the 
south-sea 
fund, being the produce of the taxes appropriated to pay the interest of such part of the national debt as was advanced by that company and its annuitants, whereby the separate funds, which were thus united, are become mutual securities for each other; and the whole produce of them, thus aggregated, liable to pay such interest or annuities as were formerly charged upon each distinct fund : the faith of the legissature being moreover en gauged to supply any cafuaî deficiencies. 
The customs, excises, and other taxes, which are to support these funds, depending on contingencies, upon exports, imports, and consumptions, must necessarily be of a very uncertain amount; but they have always been considerably more than was sufficient to answer the charge upon them. The surplusses, therefore, of the three great national funds, the aggregate, general, and boutll sea funds, over and above the interest and annuities charged upon them, are directed by statute 3 Geo. I. C 7- to be carried together, and to attend the disposition of parliament; and are usually denominated 
the finking fund, 
because originally destined to link and lower the national debt. To this have been since added many other entire duties, granted in subsequent years; and the annual interest of the sums borrowed on their respective credits is charged on, and payable out of, the produce of the sinking fund. However, the net surplusses and savings, after all deductions paid, amount annually to a very considerable sum. For as the interest on the national debt has been at several times reduced (by the consent of the proprietors, who had their option either to lower their interest or be paid their principal), the savings from the appropriated revenues must needs be extremely large. 
But, before any part of the aggregate fund (the surpluffes whereof are one of the chief ingredients that form the smking fund) can be applied to diminish the principal of the public debt, it stands mortgaged by parliament to raise an annual sum for the maintenance 'of the king’s household and the civil list. For this purpose, in the late reigns, the produce of certain branches of the excise and customs, the postoffice, the duty on wine licences, the revenues cf the remaining crown lands, the profits arising from courts of justice, (which articles include all the hereditary revenues of the crown), and also a clear annuity of L 120, 000 in money, were settled on the king for life, for the support of his majesty’s household, and the honour and dignity of the crown. And, as the amount of these several branches was uncertain, (though in the last reign they were computed to have^fometimes raised almost a million), if they did not arise annually to L 
800, 000, 
the parliament engaged to make up the deficiency. But his present majesty having, soon after his accession, spon taneoussy sigqisied his consent that his own hereditary revenues might be so disposed of as might best conduce to the utility and satisfaction of the public, and having gracioussy accepted a limited sum, the said hereditary and other revenues are now carried into, and made a part of, the aggregate fund; and the aggregate fund is charged with the payment of the whole annuity to the crown. The limited annuity accepted by his pre sent majesty was at sirst L 800, 000, but it has been since augmented to L 900, 000. The expenses them selves, being put under the same care and management as the other branches of the public patrimony, produce more, and are better collected than heretofore; and the public is a gainer of upwards of L 100, 000 
per annum 
by this disinterested bounty of his majesty. 
I he sinking fund, though long talked of as the last resource of the nation, proved very inadequate to the purpose for which it was established. Ministers found pretences for diverting it into other channels; and the diminution of the national debt proceeded ssowly during the intervals of peace, whilst each succeeding war increased it with great rapidity. To remedy this evil, and restore the public credit, to which the late war had given a considerable shock, Mr Pitt conceived a plan for diminishing the debt by a fund, which should be rendered unalienable to any other purpose. In the session 1786, he moved that the annual surplus of the revenue above the expenditure should be raised, by additional taxes, from L 900, 000 to one million sterling, and that certain commissioners should be vested with the full power of disposing of this sum in the purchase of stock (see Funds), for the public, in their own names. These commissioners should receive the annual million by quarterly payments of L 250, 000, to be issued out of the exchequer before any other money, except the interest of the national debt itself; by these provisions, thc fund would be secured, and no deficiencies in the na tional revenues could affect it, but such must be separately provided for by parliament. 
The accumulated compound interest on a million yearly, together with the annuities that would shall into that fund, would, he said, in 28 years amount to such a sum as would leave a surplus of four millions annually, to be applied, if necessary, to the exigencies of the state. In appointing the commissioners, he should, he said, endeavour to choose persons of such weight and ’ character as corresponded with the smportance of the commission they were to execute. The speaker of the house of commons, the chancellor of the exchequer, the master of the rolls, the governor and deputy governor of the bank of England, and the accountant general of the high court of chancery, were persons who, from their several situations, he should think highly proper to be of the number. 
To the principle of this bill no objection was made, though several specious but ill-founded ones were urged against the sufficiency of the mode which the chancellor of the exchequer had adopted for the accomplishment of so great and fo desirable an end. He had made it a clause in his bill, that the accumulating million should never be applied but to the purchase of stock. To this clause Mr Fox objected, and moved that the commis 
