dians 
black mangles, 
on account of the brown dusky colour of the wood. The bark is very brown, smooth, pliant when green, and generally used in the west in dia islands for tanning of leather. Below this bark lies a cuticle, or skin, which is lighter, thinner, and more tender. The wood is nearly of the same colour as the bark; hard, pliant, and very heavy. It is frequently used for fuel, for which purpose it is said to Be remark ably proper: the fires which are made of this wood being both clearer, more ardent and durable than those made of any other materials whatever. — The wood is compact; almost incorruptible; never splinters; is easily worked; and were it not for its enormous weight, would be commodiously employed in almost all kinds of work, as it possesses every property of good timber. To the roots and branclies of mangroves that are immersed in the water, oysters frequently attach themselves; so that wherever this curious plant is found growing on the seashore, oyfter fishing is very easy; as in such cafes these shell fifh may be literally said to be gathered upon trees. 
The red mangle or mangrove grows on the seashore, and at the mouth of large rivers; but does not advance, like the former, into the water. It generally rises to the height of 20 or 30 feet, with crooked, knotty branches, which proceed from all parts of the trunk. The baulk is slender, of a brown colour, and, when young, is smooth, and adheres very closely to the wood; but when old, appears quite cracked, and is easily detached from it. Under this bark is a skin as thick as parchment, red, and adhering closely to the wood, from which it cannot be detached till the tree is felled and dry. The wood is hard, compact, heavy, of a deep red, with a very fine grain. The pith or heart of the wood being cut into small pieces, and boiled in water, imparts a very beautiful red to the li quid, which communicates the same colour to wool and linen. The great weight and hardness of the wood prevents it from being generally used. From the fruit of this tree, which, when ripe, is of a violet colour, and resembles some grapes in taste, is prepared an agreeable liquor, much esteemed by the inhabitants of the Caribbee issands. 
white mangle, so termed from the colour of its wood, grow, like the two former, upon the banks of rivers, but is seldom found near the sea. The bark is grey; the wood, as we have said, white, and when green, supple; but dries as soon as cut down, and be comes very light and brittle. This species is generally called 
rope mangrove, 
from the use to which the bark is applied by the inhabitants of the west Indies. This bark, which, by reason of the great abundance of sap, is easily detached when green from the wood, is beaten or bruised betwixt two stones, until the hard and woody part is totally separated from that which is soft and tender. This last, which is the true cortical substance, 
is 
twisted into ropes of all sizes, which are exceedingly strong, and not apt to rot in the water. 
rhodes, a celebrated island in the Archipelago, the largest and most easterly of the Cyclades, was known in ancient times by the names of 
Asteria, 0 phiusa, Æthrœa, Trinacria, Corymbia, Poessa, Atabyria, Marcia, Oloessa, stadia Telchinis, Pelagia, 
and 
Rhodus. 
In later ages, the name of 
Rhodus, 
or 
Rhodes, 
prevailed, from the Greek word 
rhodon, 
as is commonly supposed, 
signifying a " rose the island abounding very much with these flowers. Others, however, give differ ent etymologies, among which it is difficult to find one preferable to another. It is about 20 miles distant from the coasts of Lycia and Caria, and about 120 miles in compass. 
several ancient authors assert, that Rhodes was formerly covered by the sea, but gradually raised its head above the waves, aud became au island. Delos and Rhodes (says Pliny), islands which have long been * celebrated, sprung at first from the sea. The same fact is supported by such a variety of other evidence as render it indubitable. Philo f ascribes the event to the decrease of the waters of the ocean. If his conjecture be not without foundation, most of the isles of the Archipelago, being lower than Rhodes, must have had a 

similar origin. But it is much more probable that the volcanic fires, which in the fourth year of the 135th o lympiad, raised Therasia and Thera, known at present by the name of 
santorin, 
from the depths of the sea, and have in our days thrown out several small issands adjacent, also produced in some ancient era Rhodes and Delos. 
The first inhabitants of Rhodes, according to Diodorus siculus, were called the 
Telchinœ, 
who came originally from the island of Crete. These, by their skill in astrology, perceiving that the island was soon to be drowned with water, left their habitations, and made room for the Heliades, or grandsons of Phoebus, who took possession of the island after that god had cleared it from the water and mud with which it was over whelmed. These Heliades, it seems. excelled all other men in learning, and especially in astrology; invented navigation, c. In after ages, however, being infest ed with great serpents which bred in the issand, they had recourse to an oracle in Delos, which advised them to admit Phorbas, a Thessalian, with his followers, into Rhodes. This was accordingly done; and Phorbas having destroyed the serpents, was, after his death, honoured as a demigod. Afterwards a colony of Cretans settled in some part of the issand, and a little before the Trojan war, Tlepolinius the son of Hercules, who was made king of the whole island, and governed with great justice and moderation. 
After the Trojan war, all the ancient inhabitants were driven out by the Dorians, who continued to be masters of the island for many ages. The government was at first monarchical; but a little before the expedition of Xerxes into Greece, a republican form of go vernment was introduced; during which the Rhodians applied themselves to navigation, and became very powerful by sea, planting several colonies in distant. countries. In the time of the Peloponnesian war, the republic of Rhodes was rent into two factions, one of which favoured the Athenians, and another the spartans;; at length the latter prevailing, democracy was abolished, and an aristocracy introduced. About 351 B. C we sind the Rhodians oppressed by mauso lus king of Caria, and at last reduced by Artemisia his widow. In this emergency, they applied to the Athenians; by whose assistance, probably, they regained their liberty. 
From this time to that of Alexander the Great, the Rhodians enjoyed an uninterrupted tranquillity. To him they voluntarily submitted; and were on that ac 
