above observed, a character not acknowledged by gene ral nature in this department, ought to be rejected as generally improper. The other supposition therefore must. be accounted right; and then, as to the 
whole 
matter of the book, the reader is found to be exactly in the situation of a 
repeater, 
save that he takes what he ■ delivers from the page before him instead of his memory. It follows then, in proof of our initial proposition, that, if we are directed by nature and propriety, the manner of our delivery in reading ought to be inferior in warmth and energy to what we should use, were the language before us the spontaneous effusions of our own hearts in the circumstances of those out of whose mouths it is supposed to proceed. 
Evident as the purport of this reasoning is, it has not so much as been glanced at by the writers on the subject we are now entered upon, or any of its kindred ones; which has occasioned a manifest want of accuracy in several of their rules and observations. Among the rest, this precept has been long reverberated from au thor to author as a perfect standard for propriety in reading. “Deliver yourselves in the same manner you would do, were the matter your own original sentiments uttered directly from the heart.” As all kinds of deli very must have many things in common, the rule will in many articles be undoubtedly right; but, from what has been said above, it must be as certainly faulty in respect to several others; as it is certain nature never confounds by like signs two things so very different, as 
a 
copy 
and an 
original, 
an emanation darted immediately from the fun, and its weaker appearance in the lunar re flection. 
The precepts we have to offer for improving the abovementioned rule, shall be delivered under the heads 
of 
accent, emphasis, modulation, exproffon, pauses, 
ci. 

Accent. 
In attending to the affections of the Voice when we speak, it is easy to observe, that, independent of any other consideration, one part of it differs from another, in 
firess, energy, 
or 
force 
of utterance. In words we find one syllable differing from another with respect to this mode; and in sentences one or more words as frequently vary from the rest in a similar manner. This stress with regard to 
syllables 
is called 
accent, 
and contributes greatly to the variety and harmony of language. Respecting 
words, 
it is termed 
emphasis;; 
its chief office is to assist the sense, force, or jaerspicuity of the sentence — of which more under the next head. 
"Accent (as described in the Lectures on elocutionis made by us two ways; either by dwelling longer upon one syllable than the rest, or by giving it a smarter percussion of the voice in utterance. Of the first of these we have instances in the words 
glory ofäther, holy; 
of the last in 
bat’tie, habit, bor’row. 
so that accent with ‘us is not referred to tune, but to time; to quantity, not quality; to the more equable or precipitate motion of the voice, not to the variation of the notes or inflexions.” 
In 
theatric declamation, 
in order to give it more pomp and solemnity, it is usual to dwell longer than common upon the unaccented syllables;; the author now quoted has endeavoured to prove (p. 51. 54.) the practice faulty, and to show (p. 55.) that " though 
it 
(i. e. 
true 
solemnity) may demand 
a flower utterance 
than usual, yet (it) requires that the same 
proportion 
in point of quantity be observed in the syllables, as there is in musical notes when the same tune is played in quicker or flower time.” But that this deviation from ordinary speech is not a fault, as our author asserts; nay, that on the contrary it is a real beauty when kept under proper regulation, the following observations it 13 hoped will sufficiently prove. 
(I.) It is a truth of the most obvious nature, that those things which on their application to their proper senses have a power of railing in us certain ideas and emotions, are ever 
disserently 
modified in their constituent parts when different effects are produced in the mind : and also II that, within proper bounds, were we to suppose these constituent parts to be proportionally in creased or diminsshed as to 
quantity, 
this effect would still be the same as to 
quality. — 
For instance : The different ideas of strength, swiftness, c. which are raised in us by the same species of animals, is owing to the different form of their corresponding parts; the different effects of music on the passions, t the different airs and movements of the melody; and the different expressions of human speech, to a difference in tone, speed, cof the voice. And these peculiar effects would still re main the same, were we to suppose the animals above alluded to, to be 
greater 
or 
lester, 
within their proper bounds; the movement of the music 
quicker 
or 
flower, 
provided it did not palpably interfere with that of some other species; and the pitch of the voice 
higher 
or 
lower, 
if not carried out of the limits in which it is observed on similar occasions naturally to move. Farther III since, respecting the emotions more especially, there are no rules to determine 
à priori 
what effect any par ticular attribute or modification of an object will have upon a percipient, our knowledge of this kind must evidently be gained from experience. Lassly, IV In every art imitating nature we are pleased to see the characteristic members of the pattern 
heightened 
a little farther than perhaps it ever was carried in any real example, provided it be not bordering upon some ludicrous and disagreeable provinces of excels. 
Now sor the application of these premises. — To keep pace and be consistent with the z/zg n/zy of the tragic muse, the delivery of her language should necessarily be dignified; and this it is plain from observation (I.) can not be accomplished otherwise than by something diffe rent in the manner of it from that of ordinary speech; since 
dignity 
is essentially different from 
familiarity. 
But how must we diseover this different manner? By attend ing to nature : and in this case she telis us, that besides using a 
stower 
delivery, and greater 
distinctnejs 
of the words (which everything merely 
grave 
requires, and gravity is a 
concomitant 
of dignity, though not its 
offence), 
we must dwell a little 
longer 
upon the 
unaccented 
syllables than we do in common. As to what our author observes io the above quotation, of 
dignity’s 
only requiring a 
stower 
utterance than ordinary, while the proportion of the syllables as to quantity continues the same; it is apprehended the remark II respecting 
quickness 
and 
stownefs 
of movement, will show it to be not altogether true. For since the delivery is not al tered in 
form, 
its expression must be still of the same kind, and perhaps what may be rightly suggested by 
the term 
gravely familiar. 
