gulua 
of arsenic consisted in mixing four parts of arsenic with two parts of black flux, one part of borax, and one part of filings of iron or of copper, and quickly 
filling 
the mixture in a crucible. After the operation is sinish ed, a regulus of arsenic will be found at the bottom of the crucible of a white livid colour, and of considerable solidity. The iron and copper employed in this process are not intended, as in the operation for the martial regulus of antimony, to precipitate the arsenic, and to separate it from sulphur or any other substance; for the white arsenic is pure, and nothing is to be taken from it; but, on the contrary, the inflammable principle is to be added to reduce it to a regulus. The true use of these metals in the present operation is to unite with the regulus of arsenic, to give it more body, and to prevent its entire dissipation in vapours. Hence the addition of iron, while it procures these advantages, has the in conveniency of altering the purity of the regulus : for the metallic substance obtained is a regulus of arsenic allayed with iron. It may, however, be purified srom the iron by sublimation in a close vessel;; which operation the regulised arsenical part, which is very volatile, is sublimed to the top of the vessel, and is separated from the iron, which being of a fixed nature remains at the bottom. ave are not, however, very certain, that in this kind of rectification the regulus of arsenic does not carry along with it a certain quantity of iron; sor, in general, a volatile substance raises along with it, in sublimation, a part of any sixed matter with which it happened to be united. 
Mr Brandt proposes another method, which we believe is preferable to that described. He directs that white arsenic should b.c. mixed with soap. Instead of the soap, olive oil may be used, which has been found to succeed well. The mixture is to be put into a retort or glass matrass, and to be distilled or sublimed with sire, at silst very moderate, and only snfficient to raise the oil. As the oils, which are not volatile, cannot be distilled but by a heat sufficient to burn and decom pose them, the oil therefore which is mixed with the arsenic undergoes these alteratlons, and arter having penetrated the arsenic thoroughly is reduced to a coal. When no more oily vapours rise, we may then know that the oil is reduced to coal. Then the fire must be increased, and the metallifed arsenic will be soon sublimed to the upper part of the vessel, in the inside of which it will form a metallic crust. when no more sublimes, the vessel is to be broken, and the adhering crust of regulus of arsenic is to be separated. The regulus obtained by this sirst operation is not generally perfect, or not entirely so, as a part of it is always overcharged with fuliginous matter, and another part has not enough of phlogiston; which latter part adheres to the inner smface of the cruft, and forms gley ■or brown crystals. This sublimate must then be mixed 
with a less quantity of oil, and sublimed a second time like the sirst; and even, to obtain as good regulus as may be made, a third sublimation in a close vessel, and without oil, is necessary. During this operation, the oil which rises is more foetid than any other empyreu matsc oil, and is almost insnpportable. This smell certainly proceeds from the arsenic; the smell of which is exceedingly strong and disagreeable when heated. 
'Regulus of arsenic made by the method we have de scribed, aud which we consider as the only one which is pure, has ail the properties of a semimetal. It has metallic gravity, opacity, and lustre. Its colour is white and livid, .it tarnishes in thc air, is very brittle, but much more volatile than any other semimetal. It easily loses its inflammable principle, when sublimed in vessels into which the air lias access; the sublimate having the appearance of grey Rowers, which by repeated sublimations become entirely white, and similar to white crystaliine arsenic. when regulus of arsenic is heated quickly and strongly in open air, as under a muffle, it burns with a white or bluish flame, and dis sipates in a thick fume, which has a very foetid sinell, like that of garlic. 
Regulus of arsenic may be combined with acids and most metals. see Arsenic, nsm?. WÇ shall only farther observe here, that, according to Mr Brandt, in the swedish Memoirs, the regulus of arsenic cannot be united with mercury. Although the phenomena exhibited by white arsenic and regulus of arsenic in feintions and allays are probably the same, yet an accurate companion of these would deserve notice, especially if the regulus employed were well made; for some difference must proceed from the greater or less quantity of what in the old chemistry is called phlogiston with which it is united. see Chemistry, n 1288, c. 
Regulus of Cobalt, 
is a semimetal lately discovered, and not yet perfectly well known. It receives its name from cobalt, because it can only be extracted from the mineral properly so called. The pvocess by which tin's semimetal is obtained, is similar to those generally used for the extraction of metals from their ores. The co balt must be thoroughly torrified, to deprive it of all the sulphur and arsenic it contains; and the unmetallic earthy and stony matters must be separated by washing. The cobalt thus prepared is then to be mixed with double or triple its quantity of black flux, and a little decrepitated sea salt; and must be fused either in a forge or in a hot furnace, for this ore is very difficult of fusion. when the fusion has been well made, we find upon breaking the crucible, after it has cooled, a metallic regulus covered with a scoria of a deep blue colour. The regulus is of a white metallic colour. The surface of its fracture is close and small grained. The semimetal is hard, but brittle, when the fusion lias been well made, its sursace appears to be carved with many convex threads, which cross each other diversely. As almost all cobalts contain also bismutli, and even as much as of the regulus itself, this bismuth is reduced by the same operation, and precipitated in the same manner, as the regulus of cobalt; for although these two metals are frequently mixed in the same mineral, that is, in cobalt, they are incapable of uniting toge there, and are always found distinct and separate from one another when they are melted together. At the bottom of the crucible then we find both regulus of cobalt and bismuth. The latter, having a greater spe cisic gravity, is found under the former. Tlièy may be 
separated from each other by the blow of a hammer. Bismuth may be easily distinguished from the regulus of cobalt, not only from its sitnation in the crucible, but also by the large shining facets which appear in its fracture, and which are very different from the close ash coloured grain of regulus of cobalt. 
This semimetal is more difficult of fusion. than any 
