to 
have been a 
general opinion among the Pharisees; for although it was a notion of the sect of the sadducees that there vvas no resurrectscn, neither angel nor spirit, yet the Pharisees, we are told, confessed both. Änd this assertion is plainly confirmed by st Paul himself when his countrymen accused him before Felix, " I confess unto thee (says this eminent apostle), that aster the way which they call heresy so worship I thc God of my fathers, believing all tliings which are written in the law and in the prophets, and having hope toward God, which they themselves also allow, that there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and un just.’sp 
This resurrectiort of the dead to judgement, though not perhaps in the same sense in which the old Pharisees conceivfcd it, is now generally and almost universally l) maintained by Christians m). Yet the Christians differ considerably with respect to the nature of the human soul. some imagine, that this spirit is naturally mortal, and that it is propagated along with the body from the loins of the rarent. In support of this opinion, it has been observed that a great number of insects and plants transfer their lives to their posterity, and die soon after the act of propagation; that after 'this act the vital principle ls iu the most vigorous of plants and animals always found to be much exhailsted; and that Tertullian a father of the church, in attempt sug some experiments of the kind, became subject to a momentary blindness, and felt a portion of his soul 
going 
out of him n). 
These imagine that immortality vvas only conditionally promised to man; that Adam forfeited this immortality by his disobedience; and that Christ has tessored Ils to the hopes of it again by his sufferings and death : for as in Adam we have all died, so in Chriff, they say, we shall all be made alive,; and that now the sting is taken from death, and the victory over our souls from the grave. 
Others have conceived the human soul as naturally immortal, and as setting death and the grave at defiance. Adam, they say, died only in a figure; and only from the consequences of this figure, which means 
sin, has our Lord saved us. In this sense Adam died on the very day in which he had fumed; or he died literally in I ooo years, which with the Lord are as one day. To these arguments their opponents reply, what then is the victory over death and the grave? You must still have reconrse to a new sigure, and betake yourselves to the second death; though, after all, where is your grave? To this it is answered, that the soul of itself is naturally immortal, and that it depends not either for its existence or the exercise of its faculties upon the body; that the properties of matter, as sigure, magnitude, and motion, can produce nothing that is like to per ception, memory, and confciousness. This is true, rejoin their opponents; but besides these few properties of matter, which are only the objects of that philosoplif which has lately and properly been termed 
mechanica!, 
the chemical philosophy has discovered other propertiee of matter; has found that matter is of various kinds; that it very often does not act mechanically; that it acquires many new properties by combination; and that no man, till farther experiment and observation, should venture to assert how far the soul is or is not dependent on its present organised systeni. The others, proceeding on their hypothesis, maintain that the soul, as being immaterial, is not divisible; and though the body of a frog may live without the head sora whole day; though the body of 
a 
tortoise may live without the head for a whole month; though a human limb may for some mi nutes after amputation continue to perform a vital motion, independent of a brain, a stomach, or a heart; and though the parts of a plant, a polype, or a worm, may survive their separation and become living wholes, yet the soul, they observe, is not to be compared with the vital principles of plants and animals, nor ought to be divided on reasons so ssender a8 those of analogy. Even granting, they say, that the soul were not naturally immortal of itself; yet the justice of God, which is not remarkable for its equal distribution of rewards and punishments in the present world, is bound to make some amends in the next. And to this again their opponents answer, as to the equal dissribution of justice in a suture world, of that we are assured on much bet 
dee paraphrast of the Canticles, asserting that the prophet solomon had said, " when the dead shall revive, it shall come to pafs that the Mount of Olives shall be cleft, and all the dead of Israel shall come out from thence; 'and the just too that died in captivity shall come through the way of the caverns under the earth, and shall come forth out of the Mount of Olives.” He has likewise quoted saunderfon’s Voyage to the Holy Land, in which, vve are told that many of the Jews, by their own account, are to rise up in the valley of Jehosaphet; and that in the 
row (ng 
or 
devolution 
of the caverns, those at 
a 
distance must serape their wav thither with their nails. 
l) 
The sect of the Quakers explain it figuratively, 
m) 
The last quoted author 
(Rofurrection op the same Body, ajferted from the traditions of the Heathens, the ancient Jews, and the primitive Church 
has endeavoured to show that this doctrine, in the same sense as we understand it, has been asserted by the ancient magi, and by the present heathen gaurs of Persia, the relics of the ancient magi; by some of the ancient Arabians; by some of the banians of India; by the present inhabitants of the issand of Ceylon, of Java, of Pegu, of Transsana; by some amongst the Chinese; by the Arderians in Guinea; and by the ancient Prussians. The proofs which he brings, it must be consessed, are not however always very satissactory. It appears, even, from his own account, that some of these had derived their notions from certain Christians, Muslims, or Jews. But the reader may judge of the great accuracy of his idea from his bringing old Pythagoras and the stoics, and even Democritus and Epicurus, in support of the same or a similar opinion. 
n) 
In illo ipso voluptatis ultima? æftu quo genitale virus expellitur, nonne aliquid de anima quoque fentimuî 
xxire, atque 
adeo marceffimus et devigefcimus cum lucis detrimcnto. 
