Iished , the 
Châtelet, being the second court in that city, was retained for the purpose of trying those per sons who had become most obnoxious by their attach ment to the royal cause. This court had the spirit to acquit the Baron de Bezenval, Marshal Broglio, and the Prince de Lambesq. But having incurred much popular odium c n this account, they were guilty of the unworthy meanness of condemning to death she Marquis de Favres, for a pretended conspiracy (of which no tolerable proof was ever brought) to massacre Lafayette, Bailly, and Neckar, and to convey the King to Peronne. 
During the whole of this winter the King had been very strictly watched by numerous guards placed'around 
his 
palace, insomuch that the other nations of Europe considered him as in a state of captivity. To do away this impression, if possible, and to make their king appear a voluntary agent in the measures that had lately been adopted, was now regarded as a matter of some importance. Every effort was therefore made to prevail with him to come to the Assembly suddenly, and, as it were, of his own voluntary motion, there to de clare his adherence to the measures which had lately been adopted. For some time he refilled this proposal; but at length, on the 4th of February, he did suddeniy appear in the National Assembly, where he complained of the attempts that had been made to shake the new constitution. He declared his wish " that it should be universally known that the monarch and the representatives of the nation were united, and their wishes were the same; that he would defend the constitutional liberty of the state; that, in conjunction with the Queen, he would early form the sentiments of his son foi that new order of things which the circumstances of the empire had introduced.” This declaration dispirited the aristocratic party in no small degree, and increased that unhappy tendency of looking for aid from foreign countries which they had always been too apt to indulge. 
o11 the 13th of February, monastsc establishments were suppressed, and their lands confiseated; but the present friars and nuns were allowed pensions sor their subsistence, and to continue the observance of their mo nastic vows, if they thought fit. we may observe here, that, in consequence of the evacuation of the monaste ries, it is probable that about this time the 
Breton 
committee began to assume the appellation of the 
Jacobin Club, 
srom the hall belonging to the Jacobin friars at Paris, in which their meetings were now held. 
An event occurred at this time which tended in no small degree to increase the odium under which the old government already laboured. This was the publication of the 
Red Book, 
or list of pensions and donations granted by the crown. In consequence of the most pressing instances, it had been communicated by M. Neckar to a committee of the Assembly, after many entreaties, and the most solemn promises of secrecy. st afforded, however, too striking an advantage to thc popular party not to be made use of, and in a few days M. Neckar, to his no smali surprise, saw this register publicly sold by every bookseller in Paris. He ought not, indeed, to have been surprised; and the giving up of this list is one of the many proofs which the transactions of that period afford of his great unfitness for the office which he held, with much indignation, however, he dc 
manded 
why the committee had published it without the permission of the Assembly or the Ring? But he was told by the committee, that “as to the Assembly, they were sure 
of 
its approbation; and as to the King, they were not his representatives.” To give an idea of Efi the effect of this publication, it is only necessary to re p? mark, that, under the short administration of M. ca lonne, thc two brothers of the King had received from the public treasury, independent of their legitimate in come, nearly two millions steiling, and that L 600, 000 had been granted to an individual, because he was the husband of Madame de Polignac. M. neckar’s oppo sition to this publication tended in no small degree to injure his popularity, and thc rest of the ministry began to lose the confidence of the public. Indeed, at this time, fertile causes of alarm prevailed on all sides. the clergy were attempting to revive in the provinces the ancient animosities between the Roman Catholics and the Protestants, ascribing the late decrees of the Assembly to the latter. The German Princes who possessed property in the north of France were complaining loudly of the violation of their rights by the aboli tion of the feudal system, although the National as sembly had voted to them a compensation. The most melancholy intelligence was received from their colonies in the well Indies. In regulating these, the Assembly had not recognised the right of the free negroes to en joy the same privileges with other citizens; at the same time, they did not go the length of denying these privileges. This uncertain conduct produced infinite calamities. The whites contended with those commonly called 
people of colour. 
These again sometimes stood in opposition to the free negroes, or to the slaves; and hence it sometimes happened that no less than three hostile assemblies were held at the same time in the same colony, which made war upon each other with the most 
inveterate fury. Each party found protectors in the National Assembly of the parent state. Those who favoured or opposed the existence of distinctions at home, in general followed out the same principle with regard to the colonies. 
On the 14th of May, M. de Montmorency communicated to the National Assembly the preparations for war in which England and spain were engaged. This brought forward the constitutional question, “who ought to possess the power of declaring peace and war? The Count Clermont Tonnerre, Messrs Vie serent, vi rieu, and Dupont, supported the royal prerogative; while on the other side, the exclusive right of the legislative body to exercise this important prerogative was supported by Messrs d’aiguillon, Garat jun. Freteau, Jellot, Charles Lameth, sillery, Pction, Robespierre, cm. Petion proposed a decree “that the French nation renounced for ever all idea of conquest, and con sined itself entirely to desensive war; ” which was passed with universal acclamation. The Count de Mirabeau at length successfully proposed that peace and war should. be declared by the king and the legislative body in conjunction; and the decree that was passed on the subject is a strange farrago of contradictions and absurdities. It enjoined the King to " guard the state from external attacks.” But how could this be done, without repei ling any attack that might be made upon it? This, however, he could not do, without previously informing the National Assembly j 
and if that 
body chanced 
