R
or r
,
a liquid confonant, being the 17th letter of our alphabet. Its found is formed by a guttural extrusion of the breath vibrated through the mouth, with a fort of quivering motion of the tongue drawn from the teeth, and canulated with the tip a little ele-vated towards the palate. In Greek words it is fre-quently aspirated with an
h
after it, as in
rhapsody, rhetoric, ice.
otherwise it is always followed by a vowel at the beginning of words and syllables.
In the notes of the ancients, R. or RO. signisies
Roma ;
R. C.
Romana civitas ;
R. G. C.
rei gerendœ caofa ;
R. F. E. D.
recte factum et dictum ;
R. G. F. 
regis
silius;
R. P.
res publica,
or
Romani principes ;
and R. R. R. F. F. F.
res
Romana ruet ferro, fame, flamma.
Used as a numeral, R anciently stood for 80 ; and with a dash over it, thus R, for 80,000; but the Greek
r
,
p, with a small mark over it, signified 100; with the fame mark under it, it denoted 1000 X 100 ; thus ç
signisied 100,coo. In the Hebrew numeration i denoted 230 : and with two horizontal points over it 1000 X 200 ; thus u = 200,000.
In the prescriptions of physicians, R or Ç» stands for
recipe, i.
e. "take.”
RAAB, a town of Lower Hungary, capital of Ja-vérin, with a castle and a bishop's fee. It is a strong frontier bulwark against the Turks, and has two bridges, one over a double ditch, and another that leads towards Alba Regalis. The forrounding country
is plain, and
there is nothing that
seems to comma .fi
if
but a small
hill at some distance, which is undermined and may be blown up. It -was taken by Amurath ill. with the loss of
20,000
men ; but was surprised soon aster by Count Palfi, who killed all the Turks that were found therein. It is seated at the confluence of the rivers Rab and Rabnitz, not far from the Danube, 32 miles west of Gran, and 55 south-east of vienna. E. Long. 17. 25. N. Lat. 47. 48,
RAB AC, a small port on the Arabian coast of the Red Sea, in N. Lat. 220 35' 40'' by Mr Bruce’s ac-¢ount. The entry to the harbour is from the E. N. E. and is about a quarter of a mile broad. The port extends about two miles in length to thc eastward. The mountains are about three leagues to the north, and the town about four miles north by east from the entrance to the harbour. The water is gcod, and all ships may be supplied here from the wells which are in the neigh-bourhood of the town. The country is bare and un-¢ultivated ; but from the appearance of it, and the freshness of the water, Mr Bruce supposes that it fome-times rains among the mountains here, which is the more probable as it is considerably within the tropic.
RABAT, a large and handfome sea-port town of Africa, in the kingdom of Fez and province of Tremε-fen. It has fine mofques and handsome palaces, and is seated at the mouth of the river Burrigrig, almost in the mid-way between Fez and Tangier. W. Long. 5. 28. N. Lat. 34. 40.
Rabat, together with SaHee, which is opposite to it, was formerly famous for fitting out piratical vessels ; but the late emperor Sidi Mahomet subdued them both, and annexed them to the empire ; since which time the harbour of Rabat has been so filled with the sand washed in by the sea as to render it unfit to carry on such piracies in future.
The town of Rabat, whose walls inclose a large space
of
ground, is defended on the sea-fide by three forts to-lerably well finished, which were erected some little time ago by an English renegado, and furnished with guns from Gibraltar. The houses in general are good, and many of the inhabitants are wealthy. The Jews, who are very numerous in this place, are generally in better circumstances than those of Larache or Tangier, and their women are extremely beautiful.
The castle, which is very extensive, contains a strong building, formerly used by the late emperor as his prin-cipal treasury, and a noble terrace, which commands an extenfive prospect os the town of Sallee, the ocean, and all the neighbouring country. There are also the ruins 
of
another castle, which is said to have been built by Jacob Almonzor, one of their former emperors, and of which at present very little remai∏3 but its walls, con-taining within them some very strong magazines for powder and naval stores. Οη the outside of these walls is a very high and square tower, handsomely built of cut stone, and called the tower of
Hajfin.
From the workmanship of this tower, contrasted with the other buildings, a very accurate idea may be formed how great-ly the Moors have degenerated from their former splen-dour and taste for aιchitecture.
RABBETTING, in carpentry, the planning or cut-ting of channels or grooves in boards, &c.
In ship-carpentry, it figmies the letting in of the planks
of
the ship into the keel; which, in the rake aιid
run
of a ship, is hollowed away, that the planks may
join the closer.
RABBI, or Rabbins, a title which the Pharisees and doctors of the law among the Jews assumed, and literally fignifies
mqflers
or
excellents.
There were several gradations before they arrived at the dignity of a rabbin ; which was not conferred till they had acquired the prcfoundest knowledge of the law and the traditions. It does not, however, appear that there was any fixed age or previous examination nccessary ; but when a man had distinguished himsels by his skill in the written and oral law, and passed through the subordinate degrees, he was faluted a rabbin by the public voice.
Among the modern Jews, for near 700 years past, the learned men retain no other title than that of
rabbi, 
or
rabbins
; they have great respect paid them, have the first places or seats in their synagogues, determine all matters of controversy, and frequently pronounce upon civil affairs ; they have even power
f o
excommunicate the disobedient.
RABBIN1STS, among the modern Jews, an appellation given to the doctrine of the rabbins concerning traditions, in oppofition to the Caraites ; who reject all traditions. See Car ait e.
RABELAIS (Francis), a French writer famous sor his facetiousness, was born at Chinonin Touraine about the year 1483. . He was sirst a Francifcan⅛ friar ; but quitting his religious hablt studied physic at Montpelier, where he took his doctor’s degree. It is said, that the chancellor du Pratt ha ing abolished the privileges of the faculty of physic atv Montpelier by a decree of the parliament, Rabelais h ad the address to make him revoke what he had don e ; and that thofe who were madc doctors of that university wore Rabelais’s robe, which is there held in great veneration. Some time after, he came to Rome, in quality of physician in ordinary to Cardinal John du Bellay archbishop of Paris. Rabelais is said to have used the freedom to jeer Pope Paul III. to his face. He had quitted his religious connections for the sake of leading a life more agreeable to his taste ; but renewed them on a second journey to Rome, when he obtained, in 1536, a brief to qualify him for holding ecclesiastical benefices ; and, by the interest of his friend Cardinal John du Bellay, he was received as a secular canon in the abbey of St Maur near Paris. His profound knowledge in physic rendered him doubly useful ; he being as ready, and at least as well qualified, to prefcribe for the body as for the foul : but as he was a man of wit and humour, many ridiculous things are laid to his charge, of which he was quite innocent. He published several things ; but his chief performance is a strange incoherent romance, called the
IIfiory os Gargantua and Pantagruel,
being a satire upon priests, popes, fools, and knaves of all kinds. This work contains a wild, irregular profusion of wit, learning, obscensty, low conceits, and arrant nonsense ; hence thc shrewd-ness of his satire, in some places where he is to be understood, gains him credit sor those where no meaning is discoverable. Some allusions may undoubtedly have been so temporary and local as to be now quite lost : but it is too much to conclude thus in favour of every unintelligible rhapsody ; for we are not without English writers of great talents, whose sportive geniufes have betrayed them into puerilities, no less incoherent at
the times of writing than those
of
Rabelais appear above two centuries after. He died about 1553.
RABBIT, in zoology. See
Lepus.
The buck rabbits, like our boar cats, will ki∏ the young ones if they can get at them ; and the does in the warrens prevent this, by covering their stocks, or nests, with gravel or earth, which they close so artificially up with the hinder part of their bodies, that it is hard to find them out. They never suckle their young ones at any other time than early in the morning and late at night ; and always, for eight or ten days, clofe up the hole at the mouth of the nest, in this careful manner when they go out. After this they begin to leave a small opening, which they increase by degrees ; till at length, when they are about three weeks old, the mouth of the hole is left wholly open that they may go out ; for they are at that time grown big enough to take care of themselves, and to feed on grass.
People who keep rabbits tame for profit, breed them in hutches; but these must be kept very neat and clean, clse they will be always subject to difeases. Care must be taken also to keep the bucks and does apart till the ∣atter have just kindled ; then they are to be turned to the bucks again, and to remain with them till they shun and run from them.
The general direction for the choosing βf tame rabbits is, to pick the largest and fairest ; but the breeder ihould remember that the skins of the silver-haired ones sell better than any other. The food of the tame rabbits may be colewort and cabbage-leaves, carrots, pars-r<eps, apple-rinds, green corn, and vetches, in the time of the year; also vine-leaves, grass, fruits, oats, and oatmeal, milk-thistles, sow-thistles, and the like : but with these moist foods they must always have a pro-portionable quantity of the dry foods, as hay, bread, oats, bran, and the like, otherwise they will grow pot-bellied, and die. Bran and grains mixed together have been also found to be very good food. In winter they will eat hay, oats, and chaff, and these may be given them three times a-day ; but when they eat green things, it must be observed that they are not to drink at ail, for it would throw them into a dropsy. At all other times a very little drink serves their turn, but that must always be fresli. when any green herbs or .grass are cut for their food, care must be taken that there be no hemlock among it; for though they will eat this greedily among other things when offered to them, yet it is fudden poison to them.
Rabbits are subject to two principal infirmities. First, the rot, which is caused by giving them too large a quantity of greens, or from giving them fresli gathered with the dew or rain hanging in drops upon them. It is over-moisture that always causes this disease. The greens therefore are always to be given dry; and a sufficient quantity of hay, or other dry food, intermixed with them, to take up the abundant moisture of their juices. Οη this account the very best food that can be given them, is the shortest and fweetest hay that can be got, of which one load will ferve 200 couples a year ; and out of this stock of 200, 200 may be eat in the family, 200 fold to the markets, and a sufficient number kept in case of accidents.
The other general disease of these creatures
is
a fort of madness : this may be known by their wallowing 
and tumbling about with their heels upwards, and hop
ping
Hl an
odd manner into their boxes. This distem-per is suppofod to be owing to the rankness of their feeding; and the general cure is the keeping them low, and giving them the prickly herb called
tare-th'file
to. eat.
The general, computation of ma!es and females is, that one buck-rabbit will serve for nine does : some al-low 10 to one buck £ but those who go beyond this, always suffer sor it in their breed.
The wild rabbits are either to be taken by small cur-dogs, or by spaniels bred up to the sport ; and the places of hunting those who straggle horn their burrows, is under close hedges or bushes, or among corn-fields and fresh pastures. The owners use to course then» with small greyhounds ; and though they are seldctn killed this way, yet they are driven back to their bur-rows, and are prevented from being a prey to others. The common method is by nets called
purfi-nets,
and ferrets. The ferret is sent into the hole to fetch them out; and the purse-net being spread over the hole, takes them as they come out. The ferrets mouths must be muffled, and then the rabbit gets no harm. For the more certain taking of them, it may not be improper to pitch up
a
hay-net or two, at a fmall distance from the burrows that are intended to be hunted: thus very few of the number that are attempted will escape.
Some who have not ferrets smoke the rabhits out of their holes with burning brimstone and orpiment. This certainly brings them out into the nets : but. then it is a very troublesome and offensive method ; and is very detrimental to the place, as. no rabbit will for a long time, afterwards come near the burrows which have been fumed with those stinking ingredients.
I he testicle of a rabbit is a very good object for examining the structure of this part of generation in animals. lhe whole substance ot the testicle in this ani-. mal is made up of veffels, which lie in round folds in the manner ot the smaller intestines: but then both ends, of each roll meet at their insertion, which seems to be made into the
ductus nervosus ;
and every one of these little rolls is curiously embroidered with other vessels, which, from their red colour, appear to be arteries and veins. The several little rolls lie in ranges, disposed with an uniformity which is very agreeable to the eye. Every one of these rolls is not a single and entire tube, but each consists of several tubes, beside the veins and arteries which embroider it. This is best distinguished by the cutting one of the rolls tranfversely, and then examining the cut end with a glass, which will appear to be made up of the cut and open ends of four, five, or more parallel tubes, which together form the roll, or single tube, as it appears to the eye, being all wrapped, up in one common and very thin membrane. These are fo tender that they cannot be explicated and viewed distinct, as De Graaf tells us those of the testicles of
a 
rat and of fome other animals may. Tliese, however, as well as the others, are only made up of a congeries, of vessels, and the liquors, which are their contents, without any intermediate substance, or any thing of that parenchyma which many authors have talked of. The testicles of a bull have the greatest appearance of a fleshy texture of those of any known animal ; yet even thefσ afford no particle of parenchyma, or flesh, when examined by glasses in any fort of preparation, whether boil-
ed,
law, foaked in spirits} or in whatever other state.
The t¢sticles of various anima3s are very variously com-posed, but all in this general manner of vessels variously rolled and folded together: and even the human testicles are of the same fort ; being composed solely of rolls of vessels, without any intermediate substance, be it called by whatever name, but only consisting of vessels and their liquors.
RABIRIUS (C.) a Roman knight, who lent an im-menfe sum of money to Ptolemy Auletes king of Egypt. The monarch afterwards not only refused to repay him, but even confined him, and endangered his life. Rabi-rius escaped from Egypt with difficulty ; but at his re-turn to Rome he was accused by the senate of having lent money to an African prince for unlawful purposes. He was ably defended by Cicero, and acquitted with difficulty.—There was a Latin poet of the same name in the age of Augustus. He wrote a poem on the victory which the emperor had gained over Antony at Actium. Seneca has compared him to virgil for ele-gance and majesty ; but Quintilian is not fo favourable to his poetry. —And there was an architect in the reign of Domitian, called
Rabirius.
He built a celebrated palace for the emperor, of which the ruins are still feen at Rome.
RACCOON. See
Ursus.
RACE, in general, signifies running with others in order to obtain a prize, either on foot, or by riding on horseback, in chariots, &c.
The race was one of the exercises among the an-cient Grecian games, which was performed in a course containing 125 paces; and thofe who cβntended in thefe foot-races were frequently clothed in armour. Chariot and horse races also made a part of thefe ancient games.
Races were known in England in very early times. Fitz-Stephen, who wrote in the days of Henry IT. mentions the great delight that the citizens of London took in the diverfioι‰ But by his words, it appears not to have been designed for the purposes of gaming, but merely to have sprung from a generous emulation 
of
showing a fuperior skill in horsemanship.
Races appear to have been in vogue in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and to have been carried to such excess as to injure the fortunes of the nobility. The fa-mous George earl of Cumberland is recorded to have wafted more of his estate than any of his ancestors ; and chiefly by his extreme love to horse-races, tiltings, and other expensive diverfions. It is probable that the parsimonious queen did not approve of it ; for races are not among the diverfions exhibited at Kennelworth by her favourite Leicester. In the following reign, were places allotted for the sport: Croydon in the fouth, and Garterly in Yorkshire, were celebrated courses. Cam-den also fays, that in 1607 there were races near York, and the prize was a little golden bell. See
Racing.
Race,
in genealogy, a lineage or extraction conti-nued from father to son. See
Descent.
RACINE (John), of the. French academy, trea-surer of France in the generality of Moulins, and fecretary to his majesty, was born at Ferre-Milon in 1639. He had a fine genius for the
Belles Lettres,
and became one of the first poets of the age. He produced his
Thebαide
when but very young ; and afterwards other pieces, which met with great success, though 
they appeared when Corneille was in his highest repu
tation. In his career, however, he did not fail
to meet 
with all that opposition which envy and cabal are ever ready to set up against a superior genius. It was partly owing to a chagrin from this circumstance that he took a refolution to quit the theatre for ever ; although his genius was still in full vigour, being not more than 38 years of age. But he had also imbibed in his in-fancy a deep sense of religion ; and this, though it had been smothered for a while by his connections with the theatre, and particularly with the famous actress Champ-melle, whom he greatly loved, and by whom he had
a 
son, now at length broke out, and bore down all before it. In the sirst place, he resolved not only to write no more plays, but to do a rigorous penance for those he had written ; and he actually formed a design of be-coming a Carthusian friar. His religious director, however, a good deal wiser than he, advised him to think-more moderately, and to take measures more fuita⅛Ie to his character. He put him upon marrying, and-settling in the world : with which proposal this humble and tractable penitent complied ; and immediately took to wife the daughter of a treasurer of France for Amiens, by whom he had seven children.
He had been admitted a member of the French academy in 1673, *n the room θ f La Mothe le vayer deceased ; but spoiled the speech he had made upon that occasion by pronouncing it with too much timidity. In 1677, he was nominated with Boileau, with whom he was ever in strict friendship, to write the history of Louis XIV. ; and the public expected great things from two writers of their distinction, but were difappointed. Boileau and Racine, after having for some time laboured at this work, perceived that it was en* tirely opposite to their genius.
He spent the latter years of his life in composing
a
history of the house of Port-Royal, the place of his education ; which, however, though finely drawn up, as many have asserted, has not bcen published. Too great senfibility, say his friends, but more properly an impotence of spirit, shortened the days of this poet.—-Though he had conversed much with the court, he had not learned the wisdom, which is usually learned there, cf disguifing his real fentiments. Having drawn up
a 
well-reafoned and well-written memorial upon the mife-ries of the people, and the means of relieving them, he one day lent it to Madam de Maintenon to read ; when the king coming in, and demanding what and whose it was, commended the zeal of Racine, but disapproved of his meddling with things that did not . concern him : and faid with an angry tone, " Because he knows how to make .good verses, does he think he knows every thing? And would he be a minister of state, because he is a great poct ?” These words hurt Racine greatly : he conceived dreadful ideas of the king’s displeasure ; and his chagrin and fears brought on a fever, of which he died the 2 2d of April 1699.
Thc king, who was sensible of his great merit, and always loved him, sent often to him in his illness ; and finding after his death that he had more glory than riches, settled a handsome pension upon his family.— There is nothing in the French language written with . more wit and elegance than his pieces in prose. Be-sides his plays, several of his letters have been published-; he also wrote spiritual songs, epigrams, &c. Racine’s
works were
printed
at Amsterdam in
17iii
in J vol§
1
2 mo, and the next year a pompous edition was printed in 2 vols quarto,
RACING, the riding heats for a plate, or other premium. See
Plate.
The amusement of horse-racing, which is now so common, was not unknown among the great nations of antiquity, nor wholly un-practised by our ancestors in Britain, as we have al-ready mentioned in the article
Race.
In 1599, pri= vate matches between gentlemen, who were their own jockies and riders, were very common ; and, in the reign of James I. public races wcre established at various pla-ces, when the discipline, and mode of preparing the horses for running, &c. were much the same as they are now. The most celebrated races of that time were called be’l-courses, the prize of the conqueror being a bell: hence, perhaps, the phrase of
bearing the bell,
when applied to excellence, is derived In the latter end of Charles I.’s reign, races were performed in Hyde-Park. Newmarket was alfo a place for the same purpose, though it was sirst used for hunting. Racing was re-vived soon after the Restoration, and much encouraged by Charles II. who appointed races for his own amuse-mcnt at Datchet Mead, when he resided at windsor. Newmarket, however, now became the principal place. The king attended in person, established a houfe for his own acconsmodation, and kept and entered horses in his own name. Instead ©f bells, he gave a filver bowl or cup value 100 guineas ; on which prize the exploits and pedigree of the fuccessful horse were generally en-graved. Instead of the cup or bowl, the royal gift is now a hundred guineas, william III. not only added to the plates, but even founded an academy for riding ; and Queen Anne continued the bounty of her ances-tors, adding several plates herfelf. George I. towards the end of his reign, discontinued the plates, and gave in their room a hundred guineas. An act was passed in the 13th year of the reign of George II. for sup-
i
ireffing races by poneys and other small and weak ιorfes, &c. by which all matches for any prize under the value of 50 1. are prohibited, under a penalty of 2.00 1. to be paid by the owner of each horse running, and 1
00
1. by such as advertise the plate ; and by which each horse entered to run, if five years old, is obliged to carry ten stones ; if six, eleven ; and if seven, twelve. It is also ordained, that no person shall run any horse at a course, unless it be his own, nor enter more than one horse sor the same plate, upon pain of forfeiting the horses ; and alfo every horse-race must be begun and ended in the same day. Horses may run for the value of 50 1. with any weight, and at anyplace. 13 Geo. II. cap. 19. 18 George II. cap. 34. Pennant’s British Zoology, vol. i. p. 6, &c. Berenger’s History and Art of Horsemanship, vol. i. p. 185, &c. At New-market there are two courses, the long and the round : the first is exactly four miles and about 380 yards,
i. e. 
7420 yards. The second is 6640 yards. Childers, the swiftest horse ever known, has run the first course in seven minutes and a half, and the second in six mi-nutes forty seconds ; which is at the rate of more than forty-nine feet in a fecond. But all other horses take up at least seven minutes and fifty seconds in completing the first and longest course, and seven minutes only in the shortest, which is at the rate of more than forty, 
feven,
feet in a fécond. And it is commonly supposed that thefe
<khh⅛>jj
cover, at every bound, a fpaee of 
ground in length about twenty-four English feet. Race-hprsea have becn for some time an object of taxation.
RACHITIS, the
Rickets.
SeeMEuιciNE, n0 347.
RACK (Edmund), a person well known in the literary world by his attachment to, and promotion of, agricultural knowledge ; he was a native of Norfolk, a Quaker. His education was common, and he was ap-prenticed originally to a shopkeeper : his society was select in this situation, and by improving himself in learning, his conversation was enjoyed by a respectable acquaintance. He wrote many essays, poems, and letters, and some few controversial tracts. At length he settled, about his 40th ye&r, at Bath in 1775, and was soon introduced to the molt eminent literati of that place, among whom Dr wilson and Mrs Macaulay highly esteemed him for his integrity and abilities. In 1777 hc published
Msator, s Letters,
a moral work, which has run through many editions. But this year he gained great celebrity by his plan of an agricultural society, which was soon adopted by four counties. He still further advanced his fame by his papers in the Far-, mer’s Magazine, and his communications in the Bath So-ciety’s papers ; a work remarkable for its ingenuity and' spirit. His last engagement was in the History of So-mersetshire, where the topographical parochial furveys were his. Thia work, in 3 vols 4to, was published in 1791, by his colleague the Reverend Mr Collinson.—. Mr Rack died
of
an asthma in February 1787, aged 52.
Rack,
an engine of torture, furnished with pulleys, cords, &c. for extorting confeffion from criminals.— The trial by rack is utterly unknown to the law of England ; though once, when the dukes of Exeter and SuffoIk, and other ministers of Henry VL had laid a design to introduce the civil law into this kingdom as the rule of government ; for a beginning thereof they erected a rack for torture, which was caffed in derision the duke of Exeter’s daughter, and still remains in the I ower of London, where it was occafionally ufed aa an engine of state, not of law, more than once in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. But when, upon the assaf-sination orVilliers duke of Buckingham, by Felton, it was proposed in the privy council to put the assaffin to the rack, in order to discover his acccomplices} the judges, being consulted, declared unanimously, to their own honour and the honour of the EngIish law, that no such proceeding was allowable by the laws of Eng-land, it seems astonishing that this ufage of admink stering the torture should be said to arise from a tenderness to the lives of men ; and yet this is the reason given for its introduction in the civil lav/, and its subsequent, adoption by the French and other foreign na» tions, viz. because the laws cannot endure that any man should die upon the evidence of a false, or even a single witnef⅛, and therefore contrived this method that inno-cence should manifest itself by a stout denial, or guilt by a plain confeffion : thus rating a man's virtue by the hardiness of his constitution, and his guilt by the sensi-bility of his nerves, The Marquis Beccaria, in an ex-quifite. piece of raillery, has proposed this problem, with a gravity and precifion that are truly mathematical :
" The force
of
the muscles and the sensibility oif the. nerves of an innocent person being given ; it is reqni-
red
to find the degree of pain aecetΓary to make him
eonfess
himfelf guilty of a given crime.” See
Aςτ ef Faith,
Inquisition, and Torture.
Rack, a spirituous liquor made by the Tartars of Tongusla. This kind of rack is made of mare’s milk, vshich is left to be four, and afterwards distilled twice or thrice between two earthen pots closely stopped j whence thc liquor runs through a fmall wooden pipe. This'liquor is more intoxicating than brandy distilled from wine.
Rack, or
Arack.
See Arack.
To RACK Wines,
£sV. To draw them off from their lees, after having stcod long enough to ebb and fettle. Hence rack-vintage is frequently used for thc iecond voyage our wine-merchants use
to
make into France for racked wines.
RACKOON, in
zoology, a species of
Ur sus.
ΚΑΠΟΝΙ, a populous town of Italy, in Piedmont, feated in a pleasant plain, on the road from Savillan to Turin, on the rivers Grana and Macra. It belongs to the prince of Carignan, who has a handsome castle here. It is six miles from Savillan, and six from Carignan. E. Long. 7. 46. N. Lat. 44. 39.
RADCLIFFE (Dr John), an English physician of great eminence in his time, born at wakefield in Yorkshire in 1650. He was educated at oxford, and enrolled himself upon the phyfical line; but it was re-markable that he recommended himself more by his ready wit and vivacity, than by any extraordinary ac-qnisitions in learning. He began to practise at oxford 
in
1675; but never paid any regard to established rules, which he cenfured whenever he thought fit, with great freedom and acrimony ; and as this drew all the old ,w practitioners upon him, he lived in a continual state of hostility with them. Nevertheless, his reputation in-creased with his experience; so that, before he had been two years in businefs, his practice was very extensive among perfons of high rank. In 1684 he removed to London, and fettled in Bow-street, Covent Garden, where in less than a year he got into prime business. — In 1687 the princess Anne of Denmark made him her physician : yet when her hushand and she joined the prince of orange, Radcliffe, either not choosing to declare himself, or unwilling to favour the meafures then in agitation, excufed himself from attending them, on the plea of the multitude of his patients. Nevertheless, he was often sent for to King william and other great perfonages, though he did not incline to be a courtier. He incurred some censure for his treatment of Q^Mary, who died of the finall-pox ; and soon aster lost his place about the princess Anne, by his attachment to his bottle. He also totally lost the favour of K. william by his un-courtly freedom ; for, in 1699, when the king showed
him his swollen ankles, while the rest of his body was emaciated, and asked him what he thought of them ? " why truly I would not have your majesty’s two legs for your three kingdoms,” replied Radcliffe. He continued increafing in business and insolence as long as he lived, continually at war with his brethren the physi-cians ; who considered him in no other light than that of an act ive ingenious empiric, whom constant practice had at ∖ ngth brought to some degree of skill in his profeffic ⅛. He died in 1714; and if he never attempt-• td to wrste any thing himself, has perpetuated hie me-mory by founding a fine library
at Oxford,
to preserve 
the
writings of other
men.
RADIALIS,
the name of two muscles in
the arm.
See
Anatomy,
Table of the Mufcles.
RADIANT, in optics, is any point
of
a visible ob-ject from whence rays procecd.
RADIATED flowers, in botany, are such as have several semifloicules set round a , disk, in form
of 
a radiant star ; those which have no such rays are called 
df ous flowers.
RÀDIATI0N, the act of
a body emitting or dif∙
fufing rays of light all round as from a centre.
RADICAL, in general, something that serves as
a
basis or foundation. Hence physicians talk much of a radical moisture. In grammar, we give the appella-tion
radical
to primitives, in contradistinction to corn» pounds and derivatives. Algebraists also speak of the radical sign os quantities, which is the character expres-fing their roots.
RADICLE, that part of the feeds of all plante which upon vegetating becomes their root, and is discoverable by the microscope. See Plant.
RADISH, in botany. See Raphanus.
RADIUS, in geometry, the semidiameter of a circle, or a right line drawn from the centre to the circumference.
In trigonometry, the radius is termed the whole fine, or line of 900 . See
Sine.
Radius, in anatomy, the exterior bone of the arm,· descending along with the ulna from the clbow to the wrist.
RADN0R, the county-town of Radnorshire, in South wales. It is a poor little place, distant from London about 150 miles. It is situated near the spring-head of the river Somergil, in a fruitful valley at the bottom of a hill, where there are sheep grazing in abundance. It is a very ancient borough-town, whose jurisdiction extends near 12 miles round about : the go-vernment of it is vested in a bailiff and 25 burgesses. Though it is the county-town, the affizes are held at Presteign: it has one privilege, however, that is very extraordinary, besides that of fending one member to par-liament ; and that is, it keeps a court of pleas for all actions, without being limited to any particular sum.. It was formerly fenced with a wall and a strong castle ⅛ but both were in a great measure demolished by ûwen Gleπdower, when he assumed the title of Prince of wales, upon the deposition of King Richard II.
W. 
Long. 2. 45. N. Lat. 52. io.
RADNORSHIRE, a county of South wales,
is
bounded on the north by Montgomery shire ; on the east by Shropshire and Herefordshire; on the south and south-west by Brecknockshire ; and on the west byCar-diganshire ; extending 30 miles in length and 25 ia brtadth. This county is divided into six hundreds, in which are contained three market-towns, 52 parishes, about 3 j 60 houses, and 18,960 inhabitants. It is seat-ed in the diocese of Hereford, and fends two members to parliament, one for the county and one for the town of Radnor. The air of this county is in winter cold and piercing. The foil in general is but indifferent j yet some places produce corn, particularly the eastern and fouthern parts ; but in the northern and western, which are mountainous, the land is chiefly stocked with homed cattle, sheep, and goats.
RADIX. See Root.
RAFT, a 'fort of float, formed by an affemblage of
various planks or pieces of timber, fastened together fide by side, fo as to be conveyed more commodiotisly to any short distance in a harbour or road than if they were separate. The timber and plank with which merchant-ships are laden, in the different parts of the Baltic Sea, are attached together in this manner, in order to float them off to the shipping,
RAFTERS, in building, are pieces of timber which, standing by pairs on the reason or railing piece, meet in an angle at the top, and form the roof of a building. See Architecture.
Rowley RAGG, a genus of stones, belonging to the siliceous class. Ir is of a dusky or dark grey co-lour, with many small Paining crystals, having a granular texture, and acquiring an oc'nry crust by exposure to the air. The specific gravity is 2748. It becomes magnetic by being heated in an open fire. In a strong fire it melts without addition, but with morc difficulty than basaltes. It was analysed by Dr withering, who found that 100 parts of it contain 47.5 of sihceous earth, 32.5 of argil, and 20 of iron.
RAGMAN’s roll, Rectius Ragimund’s rol!, fo called from one Ragimund a legate in Scotland, who calling before him all the benesiced clergymen in that kingdom, caused them on oath to give in
the true value
of their benefices ; according to which they were afterwards taxed by the court of Rome; and this roll, among other records, being taken from the Scots by Edward I. was redelivered to them in the beginning of the reign of Edward III.
RAGOUT, or Ragoo, a fauce, or feafoning, in-tended to rouse the appetite .when lost or languiihing.
This term is also used for any high-feafoned dish pre-pared of flesh, fish, greens, or the like : by stewing them with bacon, salt, pepper, cloves, and the like ingredients, we have ragouts of celery, of endive, asparagiis, cock’s combs, giblets, craw-fish, &c.
The ancients had a ragout called
garum,
made of the putrified guts of a certain fish kept till it dissolved into a mere fanies, which was thought such a dainty, that, according to Pliny, its price equalled that of the richest perfumes.
RAGSTONE, a genus of stones belonging to the •class of filiceous earths. It is of a grey colour ; the texture obscurely laminar, or rather, fibrous ; but the laminæ or fibres confist of a congeries of grains of a quartzy appearance, coarse and rough. The specisic gravity is 2729 ; it esservesces with acids, and strikes lire with steel. Mr Kirwan found it to contain a portion of mild calareous earth, and a small proportion of iron. It is used’tis a whetstone for coarse cutting took. It is found about Newcastle, and many other parts of Eng-land, where there are large rocks of it in the hills.
RAGULED, or Ragged, in heraldry, jagged or knotted. This term is applied to a cross formed of the trunks of two trees without their branches, of which they show only the stumps.
Raguled
differs from
indented,
in that the latter is regular, the former not.
RAGUSA, an ancient town of Sicily, in the Val-di-Noto, near the river Maulo, 12 miles north of Mυ-dica. E. Long. 14. 59. N. Lat∕ 37. o.
Ragusa, a city of Dalmatia, and capital of Ragu-sen. It is about two miles in circumference, is pretty well built, and strong by situation, having an inaeces-
fible mountain on the land-side, and on the fide cf the 
sea a strong fort. It has -an archbishop’s
see and a re
public, and has a doge like that of Venice, but he con tinues a month only in his office. It carries on a con-siderable trade with the Turks, and is 60 miles north-west cf Scutari, and Ho north of Brindisi. E. Long. 18. 10. N. Lat. 42. 50,
RAGUSEN, a territory of Europe in Dalmatia, lying along the coast of the gulph of venice, about 55 miles in length, and 20 in breadth. It is a republic under the protection of the Turks and venetians. Ra-gusa is the capital town.
RAJA, the title of the Indian black princes, the re-mains of those who ruled there before the Moguls. Some of the rajas are said to preferve their independen-cy, efpecially in the mountainous parts ; but most of them pay an annual tribute to the Mogul. The Indians call them
rai ;
the Perfians,
raian,
in the plural ; and our travellers
rajas,
or
ragias.
Raja, the
Ray-F'ιjh,
in ichthyology; a genus be-longing to the order of Chondropterygia. There are five fpiracula below towards the peak ; the body compreffed ; and the mouth is situated under the head. The most remarkable species are,
I. The batis, or skate : this species is the thinncst in proportion to its bulk of any of the genus, and also the largest, fome weighing near 200 pounds. The nose, though not long, is sharp pointed ; above the eyes is a fet of short spines: the upper part is of a pale brown, fometimes streaked with black : tbe lower part is white, marked with great numbers of minute black, spots. The jaws are covered with small granulated but sharp-pointed teeth. The tail is of a moderate length : near the end are two fins : along the top of it is one row of spines, and on the edges are irregularly dispersed a few others, which makes us imagine with Mr Ray, that in thia respect these fish vary, some having one, others more orders of spines on the tail. It is remarked, that in the males of this species thc fins arc full of fpines. Skates generate in March and April ; at which time they swim near the surface of the water, several of the males pursuing one female. They adhcre so fast together in coition, that the fisher-men frequently draw up both together, though only one has taken the bait. The females begin to cast their 
purses,
as the sishermen call them (the bags in which the young are included) in May, and continue doing it till September. In october they are exceedingly poor and thin ; but in November they begin to improve, and grow gradually better till May, when they are in the highest perfection. The males go sooner out of season than the females.
2. The oxyrinchus, or sharp-nosed ray, in length near feven feet, and breadth five feet two inches ; when just brought on shore, it makes a remarkable fnorting noise·. The nose is very long, narrow, and sharp-pointed, not unlike the end of a spontoon. The body is smooth, and very thin in proportion to the fize ; the upper part ash-coloured, spotted with numerous white spots, and a few black ones. The tail is thick ; towards the end are two small fins ; on each fide is a row of small spines, with another row in the middle, which runs some way up the back. The lower part of the fisn is quite white. The mouth is very large, and furnished with numbers of small sharp teeth bending inwards. This sish has been suppoled to be the
los
of the anci-
3
ents ;
which was certainly some
enormous
species
of
ray, though we cannot pretend to determine the par-ticular kind, ûppian styles it,
the broadefi among ffhes: 
he adds an account of its fondnefs of human flesh, and the method it takes of destroying men, by over-laying and keeping them down by its vast weight till they are drowned. Phile
(De propriet. anim.
p. 85.J gives much the same relation.
W
e are inclined to give them credit, since a modern writer, of undoubted autho-rity *, gives the very same account of a fish found in the South Seas, the terror of those employed in the pearl.sishery. It is a species of ray, called there
manta,
or the
quilt,
from its surrounding and wrapping up the unhappy divers till they are suffocated ; there-fore the negroes never go down without a sharp knife to defend themselves against the affaults of this terrible enemy.
3.    The aspera, or rough ray, is found in Loch-Broom in Scotland. The length from the nose to the tip of the tail is two feet nine. The tail is almost of the same length with the body. The nose is very short. Before each eye is a large hooked spine ; and behind each another, beset with lesser. The upper part of the body is of a cinereous brown mixed with white, and spotted with black; and entirely covered with fmall spines. Οη the tail are three rows of great spines : all the rest of the tail is irregularly bεfet with lesser. The fins and under fide of the body are equally rough with the upper. The teeth are flat and rhυmboidal.
4.    The fullonica, or fuller, derives its Latin name from the instrument fullers make use of in smoothing cloth, the back being rough and spiney. The nose is short and sharp. At the corner of each eye are a few spines. The membrane of nictitation is fringed. Teeth small and sharp. Οη the upper part of the pectoral fins are three rows of spines pointing towards the back, crooked like those on a fuller’s instrument. Οη the tail are three rows of strong spines: the middle row reaches up part of the back. The tail is slender, and rather longer than the body. The colour of the upper part of the body is cinereous, marked usually with numerous black spots : the lower part is white. This, as well as most other species of rays, vary a little in colour, ac-cordιng to age. r Fhιs grows to a iιze equal to the skate» It is common at Scarborough, where it is called the 
white hans,
or
gullet.
ζ.
The shagreen ray increases to the size of the skate; is fond of launces or sand-eels, which it takes generally as a bait. The form is narrower than that of the common kinds ; the nose long and very sharp ; pupil of the eye sapphirine; on the nose are two short rows of spines; on the corner os the eyes another of a semicircular form; on the tail are two rows, continued a little up the back, small, slender, and very sharp : along the sides of the tail is a row of minute spines, intermixed with innumerable little fpiculæ. The upper part of the body is of a cinereous brown, covered closely with shagreen-like tubercles, resembling'the skin of the dog-fish: the under fide of the body is white ; from the nose to the begin-ning of the pectoral fins is a tubercπlated space. The teeth slender, and sharp as needles.
6. The torpedo, cramp-sish, or electric ray, is frequently taken in Torbay : has been once caught off Pembroke, and sometimes near waterford in Ireland. It is generally taken, like other flat sish, with the trawl ; but there is an instance of its taking the bait. It
com-
monly lies in
water
of about 40 fathoms depth ; and m company with the congenerous rays. The. torpedo, brings forth its yo<ung at the autumnal equinox, as affirmed by Aristotle. A gentleman of La Rochelle, on diffecting certain females of this fpecies, the 10th of September, found in the matrices several of the fcetuses quite formed, and nine eggs in no state of forwardnefs : superfcetation seems therefore to be a property of this fish-The food of the torpedo is fish ; a surmullet and a plaife have been found in the stomach of two of them. The fur-mullet is a fish of that swiftnefs, that it was impoffible for the torpedo to take it by pursuit. It is probable, therefore, that by their electric stroke they stupify their prey ; yet the crab and sea-leech will venture to annoy them. They will live 24 hours out of the fea; and but very little longer if placed in fresh water. They inha-bit fandy places ; and will bury themfelves supersicially in it, by flinging the sand over, by a quick flapping of all the extremities. It is in this situation that the tor-pedo gives his most forcible shock, which throws down the astonished paffenger who inadvertently treads upon him. In our seas it grows to a great size, and above 80 pounds weight. The tail is thick and round ; the caudal fin broad and abrupt. The head and body, which are indistinct, are nearly round ; attenuating to extreme thinness on the edges ; below the body, the ventral fins form on each side a quarter of a circle. The two dorsal fins are placed on a trunk of the tail. The eyes are small, placed near each other : behind each is a round spiracle, with fix small cutaneous rags on their in-ner circumference. Mouth small ; teeth minute, spicu-lar. Five openings to the gills, as in others of this ge-nus. The skin everywhere smooth ; cinereous brown above, white beneath. See further the article Elec-tricitv, no 258 — 261.
7.    
The clavata, or thornback, is easily distinguished from the others by the rows of strong sharp spines dis-posed along the back and tail. In a large one seen by Mr Pennant, were three rows on the back, and five on the tail, all inclining towards its end. Οη the nose, and on the inner side of the forehead, near the eyes, were a few spines, and others were scattered without any order on the upper part of the pectoral fins. The mouth was small, and filled with granulated teeth : The upper part of the body was os a pale ash colour, mark-ed with short streaks of black, and the skin rough, with small tubercles like shagreen. The belly white, croffed with a strong semilunar cartilage beneath the lkin : in general, the lower part was smooth, having only a few spines on each side. The young sish have very few spines on them ; and their backs are often spotted with white, and each spot is encircled with black. This specie-s frequents our sandy shores; are very voracious, and feed on all forts of flat fish ; are particularly fond of herrings and sand-eels ; and sometimes eat crustaceous animals, such as crabs. Thefe sometimes weigh 14 or 15 pounds, but with us seldom exceed that freight. They begin to generate in June, and bring forth their young in Ju-Iy and August, which (as well as thofe
of
the skate) be-fore they are old enough to breed, are called
maids.
The thornback begins to be in season in November, and con-tinues so later than the skate, but the young of both are good at all times of the year.
8.    The pastinaca, or sting ray, does not grow to the bulk of the others : The body is quite smooth, of shape almost
round, and is
of a much greater thickness and
more elevated form in the middle than any other rays, but grows thin towards the edges. The nose is very sharp pointed, but short ; the mouth fmall, and filled with granulated teeth. The irides are of a gold colour: behind each eye the orifice is very large. The tail is very thick at the beginning : the spine is placed about a third the length of the former from the body; is about five inches long, flat on the top and bottom, very hard, sharp pointed, and the two sides thin, and clofely and sharply bearded the whole Way. The tail extends four inches beyond the end of this spine, and grows very deader at the extremity. These sish are observed to shed their spine, and renew them annually ; sometimes the new spine appears before the old one drops off ; and the Cornish call this fpecies
cardinal trilofi,
or
three-tailed, 
when so circumstanced. The colour of the upper part of the body is a dirty yellow, the middle part of an obscure blue : the lower fide white, the tail and spine dusky. The weapon with which nature has aimed this fish, hath supplied the ancients with many tremendous fables relating to it. Pliny, Ælian, and Qppian, have given it a venom that affects even the inanimate creation : trees that are struck by it instantly lose their verdure and perish, and rocks themfelves are incapable of refilling the potent poison. The enchantress Circe armed her son with a spear headed with the spine of the trygon, as the most irresistible weapon she could furnish him witjj, ; and with which he afterwards committed parricide, unintentionally, on his lather Ulysses. That fpear⅛ and darts might, in very early times, have been headed with this bone instead of iron, we have no kind of doubt ; that of another fpecies of this sish being still ufed to point the arrows of some of the South American Indians, and is, from its hardness, sharpness, and beards, a most dreadful weapon. But in respect to its venomous qualities, there is not the least credit to be given to the opinion, though it was believed (as far as it affected the animal world) by Rondeletius, Aldro-vand, and others, and even to this day by the fishermen in several parts of the kingdom. It is in fact the wea-pon of offence belonging to the fish, capable of giving a very bad wound, and which is attended with dangerous symptoms when it falls on a tendinous part or on a perfon in a bad habit of body. As to any fish having a spine charged with actual poifon, it seems very dubious, though the report is sanctified by the name of Linnæus. He instances the
paftiηaca,
the
torpedo,
and the
tetrodon (meatus.
The first is incapable of conveying a greater injury than what results from the mere wound ; the second, from its electric effluvia ; and the third, by imparting a pungent pain like the sting of nettles, occasioned by the minute spines on its abdomen.
RAI ΑΝΙΑ, in botany : A genus of the hexandria order, belonging to the dioecia class of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under the nth order,
Sa-mentaceœ.
The male calyx is fexpartite ; there is no corolla. The female calyx as in the male, without any corolla; there are three styles; the fruit is roundish with ari oblique wing, inferior. There are three species, the hastata, cordata, and quinquefolia.
RAIETEA, one of the South Sea islands, named alfo Ulieteλ.
RAIL, in ornithology. See Rallus.
RAILLERY, according to Dr Johnson, means flight satire, or satirical merriment ; and a beautiful wri-ter
of the last century compares it to a light which dazzles, and which does not burn. It is sometimes i∏-
noc'ent and ρleafant, and it should always be so, but it is most frequently offensive. Raillery is of various kinds ; there is a ferious, severe, and good-humoured raillery ; and there is a kind which perplexes, a kind which offends, and a kind which pleases.
To rally well, it is absolutely necessary that kindness run through a∏ you say ; and you must ever preserve the character of a friend to support your pretensions to be free with a man. Allusions to past follies, hints to revive what a man has a mind to forget for ever, should never be introduced as the subjects of raillery. This is not to thrust with the skill of fencers, but to cut with the barbarity of butchers. But it is below the character of men of humanity and good-breeding to be capable of mirth, while there is any in the company in pain and diforder.
RAIN, the descent of water from the atmofphere^ in the form of drops of a considerable size. By this circumstance it is distinguished from dew and fog : in the former of which the drops are so small that they are quite invisible ; and in the latter, though their size is larger, they seem to have very little more fpecific gravity than the atmosphere itself,. and may therefore be reckoned hollow spherules rather than drops.
It is universally agreed, that rain is produced by the water previously absorbed by the heat of the sun, or otherwise, from the terraqueous globe, into the atmosphere ; but very great difficulties occur when we begin to explain why the water, once so closely united with the atmosphere, begins to separate from it. we cannot afcribε this separation to cold, since rain often takes place in very warm weather ; and though we should suppofe the condenfation owing to the superior cold of the higher regions, yet there is a remarkable fact which will not allow us to have recourse to this suppofition. It is certain that the drops of rain increase in size con-siderably as they descend. Οη the top of a hill, for instance, they will be finall and inconfiderable, forming only a drizzling shower ; but at the bottom of the same hill the drops will be excessively large, descending in an impetuous rain ; which shows that the atmosphere is disposed to condense the vapours, and actually does so, as well where it is warm as where it is cold.
For some time the suppositions concerning the cause of rain were exceedingly insufficient and unsatisfactory. It was imagined, that when various conge-ries of clouds were driven together by the agitation of the winds, they mixed, and run into one body, by which means they were condensed into water. The eoldnefs of the upper parts of the air also was thought to be a great means of collecting and condensing the clouds into water ; which, being heavier than the air, must necessarily fall down through it in the form of rain. The reason why it falls in drops, and not in large quantities, was said to be the refistance of the air; whereby being broken, and divided into smaller and smaller parts, it at last arrives to us in small drops. But this hypothesis is entirely contrary to almost all the phenomena : for the weather, when coldest, that is, in the time of severe fiost, is generally the most serene ; the most violent rains also happen where there is little or no cold to condense the clouds ; and the drops of rain, instead of being divided into smaller and finaller ones as they approach the earth, are plainly increased 
in sizc
as they descend.
Dr Derhatn accounted for the precipitation of the drops of ram from the
veficulæ being
full of air, and 
meeting with
an
air colder than they contained, the air they contained was of consequence contracted into 
a
fmaller space ; and consequently the watery shell rendered thicker, and thus specifically heavier, than the common atmosphere. But it has been shown, that the veficulæ, if such they are, of vapour, are not silled with air, but with sire, or heat ; and consequent-ly, till they part with this latent heat, the vapour can-not be condenstd §. Now, cold is not always sufficient to effect this, since in the most severe frosts the air is very often serene, and parts with little or none of its va-pour for a very considerable time. Neither can we admit the winds to have any considerable agency in this matter, since we sind that blowing upon vapour is so far from condensing it, that it unites it more closely with the air, and wind is found to be a great promoter of evaporation.
According to Rohault, the great cause of rain is the heat of the air ; which, after continuing for some time near the earth, is raised on high by a wind, and there thawing the snowy villi or flocks of half-frozen veficulæ, reduces them to drops ; which, coalescing, de-scend. Here, however, we ought to be informed by what means these veficulæ are suspended in their half-frozen state ; fince the thawing of them can make but little difference in their specisic gravity, and it is cer-tain that they afcended through the air not in a fro-zen but in an aqueous state.
Dr Clarke and others afcribe this defcent of the rain rather to an alteration of the atmosphere than of the veficulæ ; and suppose it to arise from a diminution of the elastic force of the air. This elasticity, which, they say, depends chiefly or wholly upon terrene exhalations, being weakened, the atmofphere links under its burden, and the clouds fall. Now, the little vesicles being once upon the descent, will continue there-in, notwithstanding the increase of resistance they j  every moment meet with. For, as they all tend to the centre of the earth, the farther they fall, the more coalitions they will make ; and the more coalitions, rhe more matter will there be under the same surface ; the furface increafing only as the squares, but the solidity as the cubes ; and the more matter under the same furface, the less resistance will there be to the fame matter. Thus, if the cold, wind, &c. act early enough to precipitate the ascending vesicles before they are arrived at any considerable height, the coalitions being but few, the drops will be proportionably small ; and thus is formed a dew. If the vapours be more copious, and rise a little higher, we have a mist or fog. A little higher still, and they produce a small ιain ; if they neither meet with cold nor wind, they form a heavy thick dark sky. This hypothesis is equally unsatisfactory with the' others ; for, granting that the de-scent and condensation of the vapours are owing to a diminution of the atmofphere’s elasticity, by what is this diminution occasioned ? To fay that it is owing to ter-rene exhalations, is only solving one difficulty by another ; since we are totally unacquainted both with the mature and operation of these exhalations. Besides, let us suppose the cause to be what it will, if it acts equally and at once upon all the vapour in the air, then ail that vapour must be precipitated at once ; and thus, instead of gentle showers continuing for a confiderable length of time, we should have the most violent water-spouts, continuing only for a few minutes, or perhaps seconds, which, instead of refreshing the earth, would drown and lay waste every thing before them.
Since philosophers have admitted the electric fluid to such a large share in the operations of nature, al-most all the natural phenomena have been accounted for by the action of that fluid ; and rain, among others, has been reckoned an effect of electricity. But this word, unless it is explained, makes us no wiser .than we were before ; the phenomena of artificial electricity having been explained on principles which could scarce apply in any degree to the electricity of nature : and therefore all the solution we can obtain of the natural appearances of which we speak, comes to this, that rain is occasioned by a moderate electrification, hail and snow by one more violent, and thunder by the most violent of all ; but in what manner this electrification is occa-sioned, hath not yet been explained. Throughout the various parts of this work where electricity hath been occafionally mentioned, the principles of artificial electricity
j∣,
laid down in the treatise appropriated to that subject, have been applied to the solution ot the phenomena of nature ; those which are necefl’ary to be attend-ed to here are the following :
1.    
The electric fluid and solar light are the same fubstance in two different modifications.
2.    Electricity is the motion of the fluid when running, or attempting to run, in a continued stream from one place to another : heat is when the fluid has no tendency but to vibrate outwards and inwards to and from a centre ; or at least when its streams converge to a point or focus.
3.    The fluid acting as electricity, like water, or any other fluid, always tends to the place where there is least resistance.
Οη these three principles may the phenomena of at-mospherical electricity, and the descent of rain by its means, be explained as follows :
i The light or heat of thc sun, acting in that pe-cüliar manner which we call
heat,
unites itself with the moisture of the earth, and forms it into vapour, which thus becomes specifically lighter than air, and of conlequence ascends in the atmosphere to a certain height.
2.    Befides the quantity of light which is thus united to the water, and forms it into vapour, a very con-fiderable quantity enters the earth, where it affumes the nature of electric fluid.
3.    As the earth is always full of that fluid, every quantity which enters must difplace an equal quantity which is already there.
4.    This quantity which is difplaced must escape ei-ther at a diitance from the place where the other en-ters, or very near it.
5.    At whatever place a quantity of electric matter escapes, it must electrify the air above that place where it has escaped ; and as a confiderable quantity of light must always be reflected from the earth into the atmosphere, where it does not combine with the aqueous vapour, we have thence another source of electricity to the air ; as this quantity must undoubt-edly affume the action of electric fluid, elpecially after the action of the sun has ceased. Hence the rea-
son why in serene weather the atmofphcrical electricity is always strongest, and rather more so in the night than in the day.
6.    From these considerations, we see an evident rea-son why there must commonly be a difference between the electricity of the earth and that of the atmo-sphere, excepting when an earthquake is about to en-fue. The confequence of this must be, that as the action of the solar light continues to bring down the electric matter, and the earth continues to difcharge an equal quantity of it into the atmosphere, some part of the atmosphere must at last become overloaded with it, and attempt to throw it back into the earth. This attempt wisl be vain, until a vent is found for the electricity at some other place ; and as foon as this happens, the electrified atmosphere begins to throw off its superfluous electricity, and the earth to receive it. As the atmosphere itself is a bad conductor, and the more so the drier it is, the electric matter attacks the smasl aqueous particles which are detained in it by means of the latent heat. Thefe being unable to bear the im-petus of the fluid, throw out their latent heat, which easily escapes, and thus makes a kind of vacuum in the electrified part of the atmosphere. The consequences of this are, that the aqueous particles being driven together in large quantity, at last become vi-sible, and the
jky
is covered with clouds ; at the fame time a wind blows against thefe clouds, and, if there is no resistance in the atmosphere, wisl drive them away.
7.    But if the atmofphere all round the cloud is ex-cεedingly electrified, and the earth is in no condition to receive the superfluous fluid excepting in that place ■which is directly under the cloud, then the whole electricity of the atmofphere for a vast way round wisl tend to that part only, and the cloud wisl be electrified to an extreme degree. A wind wisl now blow against the cloud from all quarters, more and more of the vapour wisl be extricated from the air by the electric matter, and the cloud wisl become darker and thicker, at the same time that it is' in a manner stationary, as· being acted upon by opposite winds ; though its size is enlarged with great rapidity by the continual supplies of vapour brought by the winds.
8.    The vapours which were formerly suspended in-visibly by means of the latent heat are now suspended visibly by the electric fluid, which wisl not let them" fall to the earth, until it is in
a
condition to rε-ceive the electric matter descending with the rain.— It is easy to see, however, that thus every thing is prepared for a violent storm of thunder and lightning as well as rain. The surface of the earth becomes electrified from the atmosphere : but when this has con-tinued for some time, a zone of earth considerably below the surface acquires an electricity opposite to that of the clouds and atmosphere ; of consequence the elec-tricity in the cloud being violently pressed on asl sides, wisl at last burst out towards that zone where the re-sistance is least, as explained under the article Light-ning.—The vapours now having lost that which sup-ported them, wisl fall down in rain, if there is not a sufficient quantity of electric matter to keep them in the same state in which they were before : but if this happens to be the cafe, the cloud wisl instantly be charged again, while little or no rain wisl fasl ; and hence very
violent thunder fometimes takes place with-
out any rain at asl, or such as is quite inconfiderable in quantity.
9. when the electricity is less violent, the rain wilI descend in vast quantity, efpecially after every flaih of lightning ; and great quantities of electric matter wisl thus be conveyed to the earth, insomuch that sometimes the drops have been observed to shine as if they were on fire, which has given occasion to the reports of fiery rain having fallen on certain occasions. If the quantity of electric matter is smaller, so that the rain can convey it all gradually to the ground, there wisl be rain without any thunder ; and the greater the quantity of electricity the more violent wisl be the rain.
From this account of the causes of rain, we may see the reason why in warm climates the rains are exceffive, and for the most part accompanied with thun-der ; for there the electricity of the atmosphere is im-menfely greater than it is with us. we may alld fee why in certain places, according to the situation of mountains, seas, &c. the rains will be greater than in others, and likewise why fome parts of the world are exempted from rain altogether ; but as a particular discussion of thefe would necessarily include an explana-tion of the causes and phenomena of Thunder, we shall foi this reason refer the whole to be treated of under that article.
whether this theory be just, however, it would be too ⅛ affuming in us to say. It may admit of difpute, for we must grant that in the very best systems, though an occur-rence so frequent, the theory of rain is but very imperfectly understood. Dr James Hutton, Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, whofe speculations are always ingenious, though generally extraordinary, and much out of the common way, gives us a new theory of rain in the first volume of the Transactions of that society. It is well known that atmospheric air is capable of dissolving, with a certain degree of heat, a gi-ven quantity of water. The Doctor ascertains the ra-tio of the dissolving power of air, in relation to water, in different degrees of heat ; and shows, that by mixing a portion of tranfparent humid warm air with a portion of cold air, the mixture becomes opake, and part of the water wisl be precipitated ; or, in other words, the va-pour
yfill
be condensed into rain. The ratio which he states, however, does not appear to us to be supported by experience. whether the electricity of the air changes in consequence of its depositing the water dis-solved in it, or the change is a caufe of this deposition, must remain uncertain ; but, in either view, there must be an agent different from heat and cold, since the changes in these respects do not in other operations change the state of electricity. Dr Hutton supposes that heat and folution do not increase by equal increments ; but that, in reality, if heat be supposed to in-crease by equal increments along a straight line, solution wisl be expressed by ordinates to a curve whose convex side is turned towards that line. That the power of solution is not increased in the same ratio with heat, is, however, hypothetical, except when we rise pretty high in the scale, when its proportional increase is a littler doubtful ; and it is not, in this paper, fupported by ex-periment. The condensation of the breath in air is not an observation in point, except in air already saturated with vapour. It can amount, in any view, to no more 
than this, that to render
it visible,
the heat
must be di-
minished in a greater proportion than can be compen-fated by the power of solution in the body of air, in which the portion expired is at first immersed. To ex-plain rain srom this cause, we must always suppose a constant diminution of heat to take place at the moment of the condensation of the vapour ; but we actu-ally find that the change from a state of vapour to the fluid state is attended with heat ; so that rain must at once oppose its own cause, and continued rains would be impossible, without calling in the aid of other caufes. From his own system, Dr Hutton endcavourβ to ex-plain the regular and irregular seasons of rain, either respecting the generality of its appearance, or the re-gularity of its return And to obviate the apparent ex-ceptions of the theory, from the generality of rain, he explains the proportional quantities of rain, and adds a comparative estimate of climates, in relation to rain, with the meteorological observations made in our own climate. As his principle is at least insufficient, and we think erroneous, it would be useless, even were this a proper place for it, to pursue these various brân-ches, which must partakc of the errors of the system. In these branches we ought to observe, that there are several just observations, mixed with errors, because eva-poration and condensation must at last be the great ba-sis of every theory : the mistakes arise from not being aware of all the causes, and misrepresenting the opera-tion of those which do exist.
In a work entitled Thoughts on Meteorology, V0-lume II. M. de Luc considers very particularly the grand phenomenon of rain, and the numerous circumstances connected with it. He examines the several hypotheses with considerable care ; but thinks them, even if admiffible, utterly insufficient to account for the forma-tion of rain. The grand question in this inquiry is, what becomes of the water that rises in vapour into the atmosphere ? or what state it subsists in there, between the time of its evaporation and its falling down again in rain ? If it continues in the state of watery vapour, or such as is the immediate product of evaporation, it must possess the distinctive characters essential to that fluid : it must make the hygrometer move towards
hu-
midity, in proportion as the vapour is more or less· abundant in the air : on a diminution of heat, the humidity, as shown by the hygrometer, must increafe; and on an increase of the heat the humidity must diminish ∙, and the introduction of other hygroscopic substances, drier than the air, must have the same effeéf as an aug-mentatioπ of heat. These are the properties of watery vapour, on every hypothesis of evaporation ; and there -fυre all the water that exists in the atmosphere without poffeffing these properties, is no longer vapour, but must have changed its nature. M. de Luc shows, that the water which forms rain, though it has ever been, considered and reasoned upon as producing humidity, does not possess these properties, and must therefore have passed into another state. See a full account of his reasoning, and the steps by which he proceeded, in the article Meteorology, no 7, &c. Ashe thinks that the vapour passes into an invisible state in the interval be-tween evaporation and its falling again in rain, and that in that state it is not sensible to the hygrometer, he considers the laws of hygrolυgy as insufficient for explaining the formation of rain ; but he does not pre-tend to
have discovered thejmmediate cause
of the
sor-
e
mation of clouds and rain. If it is not in the imme-diate product of evaporation that rain has its source » if the vapours change their nature in the atmofphere> so as no longer to be sensible to the hygrometer, or to the eye ; if they do not become vapour again till clouds appear ; and if, when the clouds are formed, no altera-tion is perceived in the quality of the air—we must acknowledge it to be very probable, that the interme-diate state of vapour is no other than air—and that the clouds do not proceed from any distinct fluid contained in the atmosphere, but from a decomposition of a part of the air itself, perfectly similar to the rest.
It appears, to us at least, that M. de Luc’s mode of reasening on this subject agrees better with the phe-nomena than Dr Hutton’s. The Doctor, however, thinks differently, and published answers to the objections of M. de Luc with regard to his theory of rain ; to which M. de Luc replied in a letter which was printed in the Appendix to the 8ist volume of the Monthly Review : but it would extend our article beyond its due bounds, to give a view of this controver-sy. See vapour, water, weather, and wind.
As to the general quantity of rain that falls, and its-proportion in several places at the same time, and in the same place at several times, we have many observations, journals, &c. in the Memoirs of the French A-cademy, the Philofophical Transactions, &c. Upon measuring, then, the rain falling yearly, its depth, at a medium, and its proportion, in several places, is found as in the following table :    Inches.
From the Meteorological Journal of the Royal Society, kept by order of the president and council, it ap-pears that the whole quantity of rain at London, in each of the years specisied below, was as followsj
See Philofophical Transactions abridged, vol. iv. p. ii. p. 8ι, &c. and also Meteorological Journal of the Royal Society, published annually in the Philolbphica∙l Transactions.
As to the use of rain, we may obferve, that it moi-stens and softens the earth, and thus fits it for affording nourishment to plants ; by falling on high mountains, it carries down with it many particles of loofe earth, which serve to fertilize the surrounding valleys, and purifies the air from noxious exhalations, which tend in their return to the earth to meliorate the foil ; it moderates the heat of the air; and is one means of supplying foun-tains and rivers. However, vehement rains in many .countries are found to be attended with barrenness and poornefs of the lands, and miscarriage of thc crops in the succeeding year : and the reason is plain ; for thefe excessive storms wash away the fine mould into the rivers, which carry it into the fea, and it is a long time before the land recovers itself again. The remedy to the fa-mine, which some countries are subject to from this fort of mifchief, is the planting large orchards and groves os such trees as bear esculent fruit ; for it is an old ob-servation, that in years, when grain succeeds worst, th'ese trees produce most fruit of all. It may partly be owing to the thorough moistening of the earth, as deep as their roots go by thefe rains, and partly to their trunks stopping part of the light mould carried down by the rains, and by this means furnishing themselves with a coat of new earth.
Preternatural Rains,
we have numerous accounts, in the historians of our own as well as other countries, of preternatural rains ; such as the raining of stones, of dust, of blood, nay, and of living animals, as young frogs, and the like. We are not to doubt the truth of what thofe who are authors of veracity and credit relate to us of this kind, so far as to suppose that the falling of stones and dust never happened ; the whole mistake is, the fupposing them to have fallen from the clouds : but as to the blood and frogs, it is very certain that they never fell at all, but the opinion has been a mere deception of the eyes. Men are extremely fond of the marvellous in their relations ; but the judicious reader is to examine strictly whatever is reported os this kind, and is not to suffer himself to be deceived.
There are two natural methods by which quantities of stones and dust may fall in certain places, without thcir having been generated in the clouds or fallen as rain. The one is by means of hurricanes : the wind which we frequently see tearing off the tiles of houses, and carrying them to considerable distances, being equally able to take up a quantity of stones, and drop them again at some other place. But the other, which
is
much
the most powerful, and
probably the
most usual way,
is for she eruptions of volcanoes and burning
mountaina 
to toss up, as they frequently do, a vast quantity of stones, ashes, and cinders, to an immense height in the air : and these, being hurried away by the hurricanes and impetuous winds which ufually accompany those eruptions, and being in themselves much lighter than common stones, as being half calcined, may easily be thus carried to vast distances ; and there sailing in pla-ces where the inhabitants know nothing of the occasion, they cannot but be suppofed by the vulgar to fall on them from the clouds. It is well known, that, in the great eruptions of Ætna and vesuvius, showers of ashes, dust, and small cinders, have been seen to obscure the air, and overspread the sursace of the fea for a σr eat way, and cover the decks of ships ; and this at such a distance, as it should appear scarce conceivable that they should have been carried to : and probably, if the ac-counts of all the showers of thefe substances mentioned by authors be collected, they will all be found to have fallen within such distances of volcanoes ; and if compared as to the time of their falling, will be found to correspond in that also with the eruptions of thofe mountains. AVe have known instances of the ashes from vesuvius having been carried thirty, nay, forty leagues, and peculiar accidents may have carried them yet farther. It is not to be suppofed that these showers of stones and dust fall for a continuance in the manner of showers of rain, or that the fragments or pieces are as frequent as drops of water ; it is sufficient that a number of stones, or a quantity of dust, fall at once on a place, where the inhabitants can have no knowledge of the part from whence they came, and the vulgar will not doubt their dropping from the clouds. Nay,
in 
the canton of Berne in Swisserland, the inhabitants accounted it & miracle that it rained earth and sulphur upon them at a time that a small volcano terrified them ; and even while the wind was so boisterous, and hurricanes so frequent, that they saw almost every moment the dust, sand, and little stones torn up from the surface of the earth in whirlwinds, and carried to a considerable height in the air, they never consider¢d that both the sulphur thrown up by the volcano, and the dust, &c. carried from their feet must fall soon after somewhere. It is very certain that in some of the terrible storms of large hail, where the hail-shmes have been of many inches round, on breaking them there have been found what people have called
flones in their middle;
but these observers needed only to have waited the diffolving of one of these hail-stones, to have seen the stone in its centre disunite also, it being only formed os the parti-cles of loose earthy matter, which the water, exhaled by the fun’s heat, had taken up in extremely small mole-culæ with it ; and this only having served to give an opake hue to the inner part of the congelation, to which the freezing of the water alone gave the apparent hard-
ness
of stone.
The raining of
blood
has been ever accounted a more terrible sight and a more fatal omen than the other preternatural rains already mentioned. It is very certain that nature forms blood nowhere but in the veffels of animals; and therefore showers of it from the clouds are by no means to be credited. Thofe who suppose that what has been taken for blood has been actually seen falling through the air, have had recourse to flying infects for its origin, and suppose it the eggs or dung of
certain butterflies discharged from
them as
they were high up in the air. But it seems a very wild conjec-ture, as we know of no butterfly whose excrements or eggs are of such a colour, or whose abode is so high, or their flocks so numerous, as to be the occasion of this.
It is most probable that these bloody waters were never seen falling ; but that people feeing the standing ■waters b∙lood∙ coloured, were affured, from their not knowing how it should elfe happen, that it had rained blood into them. A very memorable instance of this there was at the Hague in the year 1670. Swammerdam, who relates it, tells us, that one morning the whole town was in an uproar on finding their lakes and ditches full of blood, as they thought ; and having been certainly full of water the night before, they agreed it must have rained blood in the night : but a certain phy-sician went down to one of the canals, and taking home a quantity of this blood-coloured water, he examined it by the microfcope, and found that the water was water still, and had not at all changed its colour ; but that it was full of prodigious swarms of small red animals, all alive, and very nimble in their motions, whose colour and prodigious number gave a red tinge to the whole body of the water they lived in, on a less accurate in-spection. The certainty that this was the case, did not however persuade the Hollanders to part with the mi-racle : they prudently concluded, that the sudden ap-pearancε of such a number of animals was as great a prodigy as the raining of blood would have been ; and are assured to this day, that this portent foretold the scene of war and destruction which Louis XIV. afterwards brought into that country, which had before enjoyed 40 years uninterrupted peace.
The animals which thus colour the water of lakes and ponds are the
pulices arborescentes
of Swammerdam, or the water-fleas with branched horns. Thefe creatures are of a reddish-yellow cr flame colour : they live about the sides of ditches, under weeds, and among the mud. ; and are therefore the less visible, except at a certain time, which is in the end or beginning of June : it is at this time that these little animals leave their recesses to float loose about the water, to meet for the propagation of their species, and by that means become visible in the colour they give the water. This is visible, more or less, in one part or other of almost all standing waters at this feafon ; and it is always at this season that the bloody waters have alarmed the ignorant. See
Pυ-IEX Moηocιιlus.
The raining of
frogs
is a thing not less wonderful in the accounts of authors who love the marvellous, than those of blood or stones ; and this is suppofed to hap-pen so often, that there are multitudes who pretend to have been eye-witnesses of it. These rains of frogs always happen after very dry seasons, and are much more frequent in the hotter countries than in the cold ones. In Italy they are very frequent ; and it is not uncommon to see the streets of Rome swaiming both with young frogs and toads in an instant in a shower of rain ; they hopping everywhere between the people’s legs as they walk, though there was not the least appearance of them before. Nay, they have been feen to fall through the air down upon the pavements. This seems a strong circumstance in favour of their being raincd down from the clouds ; but, when strictly examined, it comes to nothing : for these frogs that are seen to fall, are always found dead, lamed, or bruised by the fall, and never hop about as the rest; and they are never seen to fall, except close under the walls of houses, from the roofs and gutter of which they have accidentally flipped down. Some people, who love to add to strange things yet stranger, affirm that they have had the young frogs fall into their hats in the midst of an open field ; but this is idle, and wholly false.
others, who cannot agree to their falling from the clouds, have tried to solve the difficulty of their sud-den appearance, by supposing them hatched out of the egg, or spawn, by these rains. Nay, fome have suppo-sed them made immediatelyout of the dust : but there are unanswerable arguments against all these suppositions. Equivocal generation, or the fpontaneous production of animals out of dust, is now wholly exploded. The fall from the clouds must destroy and kill thefe tender and soft-bodied animals : and they cannot be at this time hatched immediately out of eggs ; because the young frog does not make its appearance from the egg in form, but has its hinder legs enveloped in a fl<in, and is what we call a
tadpole ;
and the young frogs are at least 100 times larger at the time of their appearance, than the egg from which they should be hatched.
It is beyond a doubt, that the frogs which make their appearance at this time, were hatched and in being long before : but that the dry feasons had injured them, and kept them sluggishly in holes or coverts ; and that all the rain does, is the enlivening them, giving them new spirits, and calling them forth to seek new habitations, and enjoy the element they were destined in great part to live in. Theophrastus, the greatest of all the naturalists of antiquity, has affirmed the fame thing, we find that the error of supposing these creatures to fall from the clouds was as early as that author’s time ; and also that the truth, in regard to their appearance, was as early known ; though, in the ages since, authors have taken care to conceal the truth, and to hand down to us the error, we find this venerable sage, in a fragment of his on the generation of animals which appear on a sudden, bantering the opinion, and asserting that they were hatched and living long before. The world owes, however, to the accurate Signior Redi the great proof of this truth, which Theophrastus only has affirmed : for this gentleman, dissecting some of thefe new-appearing frogs, found in their stomachs herbs and other half-di-gested food ; and, openly showing this to his credulous countrymen, asked them whether they thought that na-ture, which engendered, according to their opinion, these animals in the clouds, had alfo been so provident as to engendcr grais there for their food and nourish-rnent ?
To the raining of frogs we ought to add the raining of
grajshοpι ers
and
locυjis,
which have sometimes appeared in prodigious numbers, and devoured the fruits of the earth. There has not been the least pretence for the lupposing that theie animals defcended from the clouds, but that they appeared on a fudden in prodigious numbers. The naturalist, who knows the many ac-ciden∙ts attending the eggs of theie and other the like animals, cannot but know that some seafons will prove particularly favourable to the hatching them, and the prodigious number of eggs that many infects lay could not but every year bring us such abundance of the young, were they not liable to many accidents, and had not provident nature taken care, as in many plants, to continue
the species
by a very numerous stock of fe :ds, of which perhaps not one in 500 need take root in order to continue an equal numbcr of plants. As it is thus also in regard to infects, it cannot but happen, that if a favourable season encourage the hatching of all thofe eggs, a very small number of which alone were necessiry to continue the species, we must, in such seasons, have a proportionate abundance os them. There appeared a-.bout 50 years ago, in London, fuch a prodigious lwarm of the little beetle we call the
lady-cow,
that the very .posts in the streets were eveιγwhere covered with them. But thanks to the progress of philosophy among us, we had no body to affert that it rained cow-ladies, but con-tented ourselves with faying that it had been a favour-able season for their eggs. The prodigious number of a fort of grub which did vast mischief about the same period among the corn and grass by-eating off their roots, might also have been supposed to proceed from its having rained grubs by people fond of making every thing a prodigy. ; but our knowledge in natural history assured us, that these were only the hexapode worms of the. common hedge-beetle called the
cock-chafer.
' The raining of
fishes
has been a prodigy alfo much talked of in.France, where the streets of
a
town at some distance from Paris, after a terrible hurricane in the night, which tore up trees, blew down houfes, &c. were found in a manner covered with fishes of various sizes. Nobody here made any doubt of these having fallen from the clouds ; nor did the absurdity of fish, of five or fix inches long, being generated in the air, at all startle the
i
>eople, or shake their belief in the miracle, till they bund, upon inquiry, that a very well-stocked fish-pond, which stood on an eminence in the neighbourhood, had been blown dry by the hurricane, and only the great fish left at the bottom of it, all the smaller fry having been .toffed into their streets.
Upon the whole, all the supposed marvellous rains have been owing to substances naturally produced on the -earth, and either never having been in the air at all, or only carried thither by accident.
In Sllesia, after a great dearth of wheat in that country, there happened a violent storm of wind and rain, and the earth was afterwards covered, in many places, with small round feeds. The vulgar cried out that Pro-vidence had sent them food, and that it had rained
m'd-let :
but these were, in reality, only the feeds of a spe-cies of veronica, or fpeed-well, very common in that country ; and whose feeds being just ripe at that time, the wind had dislodged them from their capsules, and scattered them about. In our own country, we have histories of rains of this marvellous kind, but all fabu-lous. It was once faid to rain
wheat
in wiltshire ; and the people were all alarmed at it as a miracle, till Mr Dole showed them, that what they took for wheat was .only the feeds or kernels of the berries of ivy, which being then fully ripe, the wind had dislodged from the fides os houfes, and trunks of trees, on which the ivy that produced them crept.
And we even once had a raining of fishes near the coast of Kent in a terrible hurricane, with thunder and lightning. The people who saw small sprats strewed all about afterwards, would have it that they had fallen from the clouds ; but those who confidered how far the high winds have been known to carry the sea-water, did not wonder
that
they should be able
to carry small
fifh 
with it so small a part of the way.
In the Philofophical Tranfactions for 1782 we have the following account of a preternatural kind of rain by Count de Gioeni : “ The morning of the 24th instant there appeared here a most singular phenomenon. Every place expofed to the air was found wet with a coloured cretaceous grey water, which, after evapoia-ting and filtrating away, left every place covered with it to the height of two or three lines ; and all the ironwork that was touched by it became rusty.
" The public, inclined to the marvellous, fancied va--τious causes of this rain, and began to fear for the ani-mals and vegetables.    *►
" In places where rain-water was used, they abstain-ed from it : some sufpecting vitriolic principles to be mixed with it, and others predicting some epidemical diforder.
" Those who had observed the explosions of Etna 20 days and more before, were inclined to believe it origi-nated from one of them.
" The shower extended from N.⅞N.E. to S.4S.W. ov¢r the fields, about 70 miles in a right line from the vertex of Etna.
" There is nothing new in volcanos having thrown up sand, and also stones, by the violent expansive force generated within them, which sand has been carried by the wind to distant regions.
“ But the colour and subtilty of the matter occasion-ed doubts concerning its origin ; which increafed from the remarkable circumstance of the water in which it came incorporated ; for which reasons some other principle or origin was suspected.
“ It became, therefore, necessary by all means to as-certain the nature of this matter, in order to be con-vinced of its origin, and of the effects it might produce. This could not be done without the help of a chemical analysis. To do this then with certainty, I endeavour-ed to collect this rain srom places where it was most probable no heterogeneous matter would be mixed with it. . I therefore chofe the plant called
brajfica capitata, 
which having large and turned-up leaves, they contain-ed enough of this coloured water : many of thefe I emptied into a veffel, and left the contents to fettle till the water became clear.
" This being separated into another vessel, I tried it with vegetable alkaline liquors and mineral acids ; but could obferve no decomposition by either. I then evaporated the water in order to reunite the substances that might be in solution ; and touching it again with the aforesaid liquors, it showed a flight esservescence with the acids, when tried with the syrup of violets, this became a pale green ; so that I was persuaded it contained a calcareous salt. with the decoction of galls no precipitation was produced.
" The matter being afterwards dried in the shade, it appeared a very subtile fine earth, of a cretaceous co-lυur, but inert, from having been diluted by the rain.
" I next thought of calcining it with a flow fire, and it assumed the colour of a brick. A portion of this being put into a crucible, I applied to it a stronger heat; by which it lost almost all its acquired colour. Again, I expofed a portion of this for a longer time to a very violent heat (from which a vitrification might be
expected) ;
it remained, however, quite sost, and was easily bruised, but returned to its original dusky co-lour.
" From the most accurate observations of the smoke from the three calcinations, I could not discover either colour or smell that indicated any arsenical or sulphure-ous mixture.
“ Having therefore calcined this matter in three por-tions, with three different degrees of fire, I presented a good magnet to each : it did not act either on the first or fecond ; a flight attraction was visible in many places on the third : this persuaded me, that this earth contains a martial principle in
a
metallic form, and not in a vitriolic substance.
" The nature of these substances then being difcover-ed, their volcanic origin appears ; for iron, the more it is expofed to violent calcination, the more it is divided by the loss of its phlogistic principle ; which cannot naturally happen but in the great chimney of a volcano. Calcareous salt, being a marine falt combined with a calcareous substance by means of violent heat, cannot be otherwise composed than in a volcano.
" As to their dreaded effects on animals and
vegetables,
every one knows the advantageous ufe, in medi-cine, both of the one and the other, and this in the same form
as
they are thus prepared in the great labo-ratory of nature.
" vegetables, even in flower, do not appear in the least macerated, which has formerly happened from on-ly showers of sand.
" How this volcanic production came to be mixed with water may be conceived in various ways.
" Ætna, about its middle regions, is generally fur-rounded with clouds that do not always rise above its snmmit, which is 2900 paces above the level of the sea. This matter being thrown out, and descending upon the clouds below it, may happen to mix and fall in rain with them in the usual way. It may also be conjectured, that the thick smoke which the volcanic matter contained might, by its rarefaction, be carried in the atmosphere by the winds over that tract of country ; and then cooling so as to condense and become specisi-cally heavier than the air, might descend in that colour-ed rain.
" I must, however, leave to philofophers (to whom the knowledge of natural agents belongs) the examination and explanation of such phenomena, confining myself to observation and chemical experiments.”
Rain, a well built and fortified town of Bavaria, one of the keys of this electorate, on the Lech, 20 miles west of Ingolstadt. N. Lat. 48. 51. E. Long. 11. 12.
RAiN-Bird.
See
Cuculus,
nθ 8.
RAINBOW. See optics, Part ∏. Sect. i. § 1.
In the Philofophical Transactions for 1793, we have the following account of two rainbows seen by the Rev. Mr St urges.
" Οη the evening of the 9th of July 1792, between seven and eight o’clock, at Alverstoke, near Gosport, on the sea-coast of Hampshire, there came up, in the sonth-east, a cloud with a thunder-shower ; while the fun shone bright, low in the horizon to the north-
west.
“ In this shower two primary rainbows appeared, AB and AC, not concentric, but touching each other
at A, in the south part of the horizon ; with
a
secon-dary bow to each, DE andDF (the last very faint, but discernible), which touched likewise at D. Both the primary were very' vivid for a considerable time, and at different times nearly equally so ; but the bow AB was "* most permanent, was a larger segment of a circle, and at last, after the other had vanished, became almost a semi-circle ; the sun being near setting. It was a perfect calm, and the sea was as smooth as glass.
" If I fnight venture to offer a solution of this ap-pearance, it would be as follows. I consider the bow AB as the true one, produced by the sun itself ; and the other, AC, as produced by the reflection of the sun from the sea, which, in its perfectly fmooth state, acted as a speculum. The direction of the sea, between the Isle of wight and the land, was to the north-west in
a 
line with the sun, as it was then situated. The image reflected from the water, having its rays iffuing from a point lower than the real sun, and in a line coming from beneath the horizon, would consequently form
a 
bow higher than the true one AB. And the shores, by which that narrow part of the sea is bounded, would before the sun’s actual setting intercept its rays from the surshce of the water, and cause the bow AC, which I suppose to be produced by the reflection, to disappear before the other.”
The marine or sea bow is a phenomenon which maybe frequently observed in a much ag⅛ated sea, and
is
occasioned by the wind sweeping part of the waves, and carrying them aloft ; which when they fall down are refracted by the sun’s rays, which paint the colours of the bow just as in a common shower. Thefe bows are often seen when a veffel is sailing with considerable force, and dashing the waves around her, which are raised partly by tlre action βf the ship and partly by the force of the wind, and, falling down, they form a rainbow ; and they are also often occasioned by the dashing βf the waves against the rocks on shore.
In the Philofophical Transactions, it is observed by F. Bourzes, that the colours of the marine rain-bow are less lively, less distinct, and of shorter con-tinuance, than those of the common bow ; that therc are scarce above two colours distinguishable, a dark yel-low on the side next the sun, and a pale green on the opposite side. But they are more numerous, there be-ing sometimes 20 or 30 seen together.
To this class of bows may be referred a kind of white or colourlefs rainbows, which Mcntzelius and others affirm to have seen at noon-day. M. Marlotte, in his fourth 
Efifαi de Physique,
says, these bows are formed in mists, as the others are in showers ; and adds,· that he has seen several both after sun-rising and in the night. The want of colours he attributes to the fmallness of the va∙ pours which compofe the mist ; but perhaps it is rather shom the exceeding .tenuity of the little veficulæ of the vapour, which being only little watery pellicles bloated with air, the rays of light undergo but little refraction in passing out of air into them ; too little to separate the differently coloured rays, &c. Hence the l ays are reflected from them, compounded as they came, that is, white. Rohault mentions * coloured rainbows on the grass ; formed by the resractions of the sun’s rays in the morning dew. Rainbows have been alfo produced by the reflection of the sun from a river ; and
in 
the Philofophical Transactions, V0I. L. p. 2 g 4.
we
have an account of a rainbow, which must have been formed by the exhalations from the city of London, when the sun had been set 20 minutes, and consequently the centre of the bow was above the horizon. The colours were the fame-as in the common rainbow, but fainter.
It has often been made a fubject of inquiry among the curious how there came to be no rainbow before the flood, which is thought by some to have been the case from its being made a sign of the covenant which theDei-fy was pleafed to make with man after that event. Mr whitehurst, in his
Inquiry into the Original State and Formation if the Earth,
p∙ 173, &c. endeavours to establish it as a matter of great probability at least, that the antediluvian atmosphere was so uniformly temperate as never to be subject to storms, tempests, or rain, and of course it could never exhibit a rainbow. For our own part, we cannot see how the earth at that period could do without rain any more than at present ; and it appears to us from Scripture equally probable that the rainbow was seen before the flood as after it. It was then, how-ever, made a token of a certain covenant ; and it would unquestionably do equally well for that purpose if it had existed before as if it had not.
Lunar Rainbow.
The moon sometimes also exhi-bits the phenomenon of an iris or rainbow by the re-fraction of her rays in drops of rain in the night-time. This phenomenon is very rare. In the Philofophical Transactions for 1783, however, we have an account of three feen in one year, and all in the fame place, communicated in two letters by Marmaduke Tunstall, Efq. The first was seen 27th February 1782, at Greta Bridge, Yorkshire, between seven and eight at night, and appeared “ in tolerably distinct colours, fimilar to a solar one, but mare faint : the orange colour seemed to predominate. It happened at full moon ; at which time alone they are said to have been always seen. Though Aristotle is faid to have observed two, and some others have been seen by Suellius, &c. I can only sind two de-scribed with any accuracy ; viz. one by Plot, in his History of oxfordshire, seen by him in 1675, though without colours ; the other seen by a Derbyshire gen-tleman at Glapwell, near Chestersield, described by Tho-reshy, and inferted in Nj 3 31. of the Philofophical Trans-actions : this was about Christmas, 1710, and said to have had all the colours of the Iris Solaris. The night was windy ; and though there was then a drizzling rain and dark cloud, in which the rainbow was reflected, it proved afterwards a light frost.”
Two others were afterwards seen by Mr Tunstall ; one on July the 30fb, about 11 o’clock, which lasted about a quarter of an hour, without colours. The other, which appeared on Friday october 18. was " perhaps the most extraordinary one of the kind ever seen. It was first visible about nine o’clock, and continued, tho’ with very different degrees of brisliancy, till past two. At first, though a strongly marked bow, it was without colours; but afterwards they were very conspicuous and vivid in the same form as in the folar, though faint-cr ; the red, green, and purple, were most distinguishable. About twelve it was the most splendid in ap-pearance ; its arc was confiderably a smaller segment of a circle than a folar ; its south-east limb first began to fail, and a considerable time before its final extinction : the wind was very high, nearly due west,
most
part of
the time, accompanied with a drizzling rain. It is
a
singular circumstance, that three of these phenomena should have been seen in so short a time in one place, as they have been esteemed ever since the time of Aristotle, who is said to have been the first observer of them, and saw only two in 50 years, and since by Plot and Thoreshy, almost the only two English authors who have fpoke of them, to be exceeding rare. They seem evidently to be occasioned by a refraction in a cloud or turbid atmosphere, and in general are indications of stormy and rainy weather : so bad a season as the late summer having, I believe, seldom occurred in EngIand. Thoreshy, indeed, fays, the one he observed was suc-ceeded by several days of fine serene weather. Ûne particular, rather fingular, in the second, viz. of July the 30th, was its being six days after the full of thc moon; and the last, though of
so
long a duration, was three days before the full : that
of
the 27th of February was exactly at the full, which ufed to be judged the only time they could be seen, though in the Encyclo-pedia there is an account that weidler observed one in 1719, in the sirst quarter of the moon, with faint co-lours, and in very calm weather. No lunar iris, I ever heard or read of, lasted near so long as that on the 18th instant, either with or without colours.”
In the Gentleman’s Magazine for August 1788 we have an account of a lunar rainbow by a correspondent who faw it. " Οη Sunday evening the 17th of August (fays he), after two days, on both of which, par-ticularly the former, there had been a great deal of rain, together with lightning and thunder, just as the clocks were striking nine, 23 hours after full moon, looking through my window, I was struck with the appearance of something in the sky, which seemed like a rainbβw. Having never seen a rainbow by night, I thought it a very extraordinary phenomenon, and ha-stened to a place where there were no buildings to ob-struct my view of the hemifphere : here I found that the phenomenon was no other than a lunar rainbow ; the moon was truly ‘ walking in brightness,’ brilliant as she could be ; not a cloud was to be seen near her ; and over-against her, toward the north-west, or perhaps rather more to the north, was a rainbow, a vast arch, perfect in all its parts, not interrupted or broken as rainbows frequently are, but unremittedly visible from one horizon to the other. In order to give some idea of its extent, it is necessary to say, that as I stood to-ward the western extremity of the parish of Stoke Newington, it seemed to take its rise from the west of Hampstead, and to the end, perhaps, in the river Lea,, the eastern boundary of Tottenham ; its colour was white, cloudy, or greyish, but a part of its western leg seemed to exhibit tints of a faint fickly green. I continued viewing it for some time, till it began to rain and at length the rain increafing, and the iky growing more hazy, I returned home about a quarter or 20 minutes past nine, and in ten minutes came out again ; but by that time all was over, the moon was darkened by clouds, and the rainbow of course vanished.”
Marine Rainbow,
or
Sea-bow.
Seethe article
Rainbow.
RAiNBοrr-Stοne.
See
MοοN-Stοne. ■
RAISINS, grapes prepared by suffering them to remain on the vine till they are perfectly ripe, and then drying them in the fun, or by the heat of an oven.
The difference between raisins dried in the fun and
thosc dried in ovens, is very obvious : the former are sweat and pleasant, but the latter have a latent acidity with the sweetness that renders them much less agreeable.
The cpmmon way of drying grapes for raisins, is to tie two or three bunches of them together while yet on the vine, aud dip them into a hot lixivium of wood-ashes, with a little of the oil of olives in it. This dis-poses them to shrink and wrinkle ; and after this they are left on the vine three or four days separated on sticks in an horizontal situation, and then dried in the fun at leisure, after being cut from the tree. The sinest aud best raisins are those called in some places
Damas-tus
and
Tube roifins ;
which are distinguished from the others by their size and figure : they are flat and wrinkled on the surface, foft and juicy within, and near an inch long ; and, when fresh and growing on the bunch, are of the size and shape of
a
large olive.
The raisins of the sun, and jar-raisins, are all dried by the heat of the sun ; and these are the sorts used in medicine. However, all the kinds have much the same virtues : they are all nutritive and balsamic ; they are allowed to be attenuant, are said to be good in nephritic complaints, and are an ingredient in pectoral decoc-tions : in which cases, as also in all others where astrin-gency is not required of them, they should have the stones carefully taken oκt.
RA is
in
-Wine.
SeewiNE.
RAKKATH (anc. geog.),
a
town of Upper Galilee, thought to be Tiberias, (Talmud) : but this is denied by Reland, who fays that Rakkath was a town cf the tribe of Naphthali.
RAKE is a well known instrument with teeth, by which the ground is divided. See Agriculture, j>. 3 i 8.
Rake also means a loose, disorderly, vicious, and thoughtless fellow.
RAKe os a Ship,
is all that part of her hull which hangs over both ends of her keel. That which is be-fore is called the
fore rake,
or
rake forward,
and that part which is at tlie setting on of the stern-post is call-cd the
rake-aji,
or
afterward.
RALEIGH (Sir walter), fourth fon of walter Raleigh, Esq; of Fardel, in the parish of Cornwood in Devonshire, was born in 1552 at Hayes, in the parish of Budley, a farm belonging to his father. About the year 1568, he was sent to
Οπεί
college in oxford, where he continued but a short time ; for in the following year he embarked for France, being one of the hundred volunteers, commanded by Henry Champer-non, who, with other English troops, were sent by queen Elisabeth to assist the queen of Navarre in defending the Protestants. In this service he continued for five or six years ; after which he returned to Lon-don, and probably resided in the Middle Temple. But his entcrprising genius would not suffer him to remain long in a state of inactivity In 1577 or 1578, he embarked for the Low Countries with the troops sent. by the queen to assist the Dutch against the Spaniards, and probably shared the glory of the decisive victory over Don John of Austria in 1578.
Οη
his return to England, a new enterprife engaged his attention. His half-brother, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, having obtained a patent to plant and inhabit some parts of North America, Mr Raleigh embarked in this adventure ; but, meeting with a Spanish fleet, after a fraart engagement they returned, without success, in 1579.
The following year, the king of Spain,
in
conjunc-tion with the pope, having projected a total couqnest of the English dominions, sent troops to Ireland to assist the Desmonds in the Munster rebellion. Raleigh obtained a captain’s commission under Lord Grey of wilton, then deputy of Ireland, and embarked sor that kingdom ; where, by his conduct and refolution, he was principally instrumental in putting an end to the rebellious attempt. He returned to England ; and attract-ed the notice of queen Elisabeth, owing, as we are told in Naunton’s
Fragmenta Regalia,
to the following accidental piece of gallantry. The queen, as she was one day taking a walk, being stopped by a
plajhy
place in the road, our gallant young soldier took off his new plush mantle, and spread it on the ground. Her ma∙ jesty trod gently over the fair foot-cloth, surprised and pleased with the adventure. He was a handsome man, and remarkable for his gentility of address.
The queen admitted him to her court, and employed him first as an attendant on the French ambassador Si-mier on his return home, and afterward to cscort the duke of Anjou to Antwerp. During this excursion he became personally known to the prince of orange ; from whom, at his return, he brought special acknowledgments to the queen, who now frequently conversed with him. But the inactive life of a courtier did not fuit the enterprising spirit of Mr Raleigh In the ycar 1583, he embarked with h.is brother, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, on a second expedition to Newfoundland, in a ship called the
Rat'eigh,
which he built at his own ex-pence ; but was obliged to return on account of an in-fectiυus distemper on board. He was, however, so little affected by this disappointment, that he now laid before the queen and council a proposal for exploring the continent of North America; and in 1584 obtained 
a
patent empowering him to possess snch countries as hc should discover in that part of the globe. Accordingly Mr Raleigh fitted out two ships at his own expence, which sailed ip the month of April, and returned to England about the middle
of
September, reporting that they had discovered and taken possession of a fine country called
Windangocoa,
to which the queen gave the name of
Virginia.
About this time he was elected knight of the shire for the county of Devon, and soon aster received the honour of knighthood ; and to enable him t® carry on his designs abroad, the queen granted him a patent for licensing the venders of wine throughout the kingdom. In 1 ,85 he sent a fleet of seven ships to virginia, commanded by his relation Sir Richard Greenville, who left a colony at Roanah of 107 persons, under the government of Mr Lane; and by the establishment of this colony he first imported tobacco into England. See Nicotiana. In the same year Sir walter Raleigh obtained a grant of 12,000 acres bf the forfeited lands in the county of Corke in Ireland.— About the same time he was made seneschal of the duchy of Cornwall, and warden of the {tanneries ; and grew into fuch favour w.th the queen, that even Lei-ccster was jealous of his influence.
In 1587, he sent another colony of 150 men to vir-ginia, with a governor, Mr John white, and 12 assistants. About this time we find our knight distinguish-
ed by the titles of
Captain os the queen's guards,
and
Lieutenant general os Cornwall.
From this period to the year 1594, he was continually engaged in projecting new expeditions, fending succours to colonies abroad, defending the kingdom from the insults of the Spani-ards, and transacting parliamentary business, with equal ability and refolution. whilst thus employed, he was publicly charged, in a libel written by the infamous Jesuit Parlous, with being an Atheist ; a groundless and ridiculous imputation. In 1594, he obtained from the queen a grant of the manor of Sherborne in Dor-setshire, where he built a magnificent house : but Sir waiter fell under the queen’s displeasure on account of an intrigue with the daughter of Sir Nicholas Throg-morton, one of the maids of honour ; however, he married the lady, and lived with her in great conjugal har-mony. During his disgrace at court, he projected the conquest of Guiana in South America, and in 1595 failed sor that country ; of which having taken possession, after defeating the Spaniards who were settled there, he returned to England the same year, and soon after published an account k of his expedition. In the following year he was one of the admirals in the success-ful expedition against Cadiz, under the command of Howard and the earl of Essex ; and in 1597 he failed with the same commanders against the Azores. Soon after these expeditions, we find him assiduously engaged in parliamentary business, [and a distinguished personage in jousts and tournaments. In 1600 he was sent on a joint embassy with Lord Cobham to Flanders, and at his return made governor of Jersey.
Queen Elisabeth died in the beginning of the year 1603 ; and with her Raleigh’s glory and felicity funk, never to rise again. Upon the accession of James, Sir walter lost his interest at court, was stripped of his preferments, and accused of a plot against the king. He was arraigned at winchester, and, on his trial, insulted by the most shockmg brutality by the famous Coke, attorney-general, whose sophistical vociferation influen-ced the jury to convict him without the least proof of guilt. After a month’s imprisonment, however, in daily expectation of his execution, he was reprieved, and sent to the Tower ; and his estat es were given to Car, earl of Somerset, the king’s favourite. During this confine-ment, he wrote many of his most valuable pieces, parti-cularly his History of the world. In March 1615, after 16 years impriionment, he obtained his liberty, and immediately began to prepare·for another voyage to Guiana. In August 161 6, the king granted him a very ample commiflion for that purpose ; and in July the year following, he failed from Plymouth : but, strange as it may appear, it is most certain that the whole scheme was revealed to the Spaniards by the king himself, and thus necessarily rendered abortive.
He returned to England in 1618, where he was foon after seized, imprifoned, and beheaded ; not for any pre-tended misdemeanor on the late expedition, but in consequence of his former attainder. The truth of the matter is, he was sacrificed by the ptisillanimous monarch to appease the Spaniards ; who, whilst Raleigh lived, thought every part of their dominions in danger. He was executed in old Palace Yard, and buried in St Margaret’s adjoining, in the ∙66th year of his age. His behaviour on the scassold was manly, unaffected, cheer-ful, and easy. Being asked by the executioner which
be right, it is no matter which way the head lies.” He was a man of admirable parts, extenfive knowledge, un- ' daunted ressoIution, and strict honour and honesty. He was the author os a great many works, some of which have not been printed.
RALLUS, the Rail, in ornithology ; a genus be-longing to the order of grallæ. The beak is thickest at the base, compreffed, equal, acute, and somewhat sharp on the back near the point ; the nostriis are oval ; thc feet have four toes, without any web ; and the body is compreffed. Mr Latham, in his
Index Ornithologicus, 
enumerates 24 species, befides some varieties. They are chiefly distinguished by their colour. " These birds (says Buffon) constitute a large family, and their ha-bits are different from those of the other shore-birds, which reside on sands and gravel. The rails, on the contrary, inhabit only the slimy margins of pools and rivers, especially low grounds covered with flags and other large marsh plants. This mode of living is habitual and common to all the species of water-rails. The land rail frequents meadows, and from the disagreeable cry, or rather rattling in the throat of this bird, is de-rived the generic name. In all the rails, the body is slender, and shrunk at the sides ; the tail extremely short ; the head small ; the bill pretty like that ©f the gallinaceous kind, though much longer, and not so thick ; a portion of the leg above the knee is bare ; the three fore-toes without membranes, and very long : they do not, like other birds, draw their feet under their bel-ly in flying, but allow them to hang down : their wings are small and very concave, and their flight is short.— They seem to be more diffused than varied ; and nature has produced or transported them over the most distant lands. Captain Cook found them at the Straits of Ma-gellan ; in different islands of the fouthern hcmisphere, at Anamoka, at Tanna, and at the isle of Norfolk. In the Society Islands there are two species of rails ; a little black spotted one,
(pooa-ηee},
and a little red-eyed one
(mai-ho}.
It appears that the two acolins of Fernandez, which he denominates
water-quails,
are of
a 
species of rails peculiar to the great lake of Mexico.— The colins, which might be confounded with these, are a kind of partridges.” The principal are,
1. The aquaticus, or water-rail, is a bird of a long slender body, with short concave wings. It delights less in flying than running : which it does very swiftly along the edges of brooks covered with bushes : as it runs, it every now and then flirts up its tail, and in flying hangs down its legs ; actions it has in common with the water-hen. Its weight is four ounces and a half. The length to the end of the tail is 12 inches ; the breadth 16. The bill is slender, slightly incurvated, one inch three quarters long : the upper mandible black, edged with red ; the lower, orange-coloured : the head, hind part of the neck, the back, and coverts of the wings and tail, are black, edged with an olive brown ; the throat, breast, and upper part of the belly, are ash-coloured : the sides under the wings as far as the rump, finely varied with black and white bars. The tail is veι*y short, consists of 12 black feathers ; the ends of the two middle tipt with rust colour ; the fea-thers immediately beneath the tail white. The legs are placed far behind, and are of a dusky flesh-colour. The toes very - long, and divided to their very origin ; though the feet are not webbed, it takes the water.; 
will f∞im ∩n it with mnrh f, afp. but i.<s r>ftpn nbserued
to run along the surface. "water rails (says Buffon) are seen near the perennial fountains during the greatest. part of the winter, yet like the land rails they haye their regular migrations. They pass Malta in the spring and au-tumn. The Viscount de Querhoent saw some 50 leagues off the coasts of Portugal on the 17th of April. They were so fatigued, that they suffered themielves to be caught by the hand (a). Gmelin found theie birds in the countries watered, by the Don. ,Belon calls them 
black rails,
and says they are everywhere known, and that the species is more numerous than the red rail, or land rail. * The flesh of the water rail is not so delicate as that of the land rail, and has even a marshy taste, nearly like that of the gallinule. It continues the whole year in England.”
2. The porzana, or gallinule, is not very frequent in Great Britain, and is said to be migratory. Inhabits the sides of small streams, concealing itself among the bushes. Its length is nine inches ; its breadth, 15 ; its weight, four ounces five drachms. d he head is brown, fpotted with black ; the neck a deep olive, fpotted with white : the feathers of the back are black next their shafts, then olive-coloured, and edged with white ; the scapulars are olive, finely marked with two small white spots on each web : the legs of a yellowish green. " Its habits (fays Buffon) wild, its instinct stupid, the porzana is unsusceptible of education, nor is even ca-pable of being tamed, we raised one, however, which lived a whole summer on crumbs of bread and hemp-feed; when by itself, it kept constantly in a large bowl of v ater ; but if a person entered the closet where it was shut, it ran to conceal itself in a small dark corner, without vent-ing cries or murmurs. In the state ot liberty, hυweveι, it has a sharp piercing voice, much like the scieam. of a young bud of prey ; and though it has no propensity to society, as soon as one cries, another repeats the found, which is thus conveyed through all the ιeit in the district. Like all the rails, it is so obstinately averse to rise, that the sportsman often seizes it with his hand, or fells it with a stick. If it finds a bush in its retreat, it climbs upon it, and from the top of its asylum beholds tlie dogs brushing along in iault : this habit is common to it and to the water-rail. It dives, swims, and even fwims under water, when hard pushed.
" These birds diiappear in the depth of winter, but re-turn early in the spring ; and even in the month of Fe-bruary they are common in some provinces of 1 rance and Italy. Ί heir flesh is delicate, and much esteemed : those, in particular, which are caught in the 1 ice-fields in Piedmont are very fat, and of an exquisite flavour.”
3. The crex, crake, or corn-crek, has been supposed by some to be the same with the water-rail, and that it differs only by a change of colour at a certain season of the year : this error is owing to inattention to their characters and nature, both which differ entirely. The bill of tfiis species is short, strong, and thick ; formed exactly like that of the water-lien, and makes a generi-cal distinction. It never frequents watery places ; but is always found among corn, grass, broom, or furze. It quits the kingdom before winter; but the water-ιail en-
dures our sharpest seasons. They agree in their aversion to flight ; and the legs, which are remarkably long for the size of the bird, hang down whilst they are on the wing ; they trust their safety to their _ swiftness on foot, and seldom are sprung a second time but with great difficulty. The land rail lays from 12 to 20 eggs,-of a dull white colour, marked with a few yellow.spots; notwithstanding this, they are very numerous in thιs-kingdom. 1 heir note is very singular; and like the quail, it is decoyed into a net by the imitation of its cry,
crëk crek crek,
by rubbing hard the blade of a knife on an indented bone. Most of the names given in different languages to this bird-rare evidently formed to imitate this singular cry. Hence Iurner and some other naturalists have supposed it to be the crex of the ancients ; but that term appears to have been applied by the ancients to other birds. Philus gives the crex the epithet of ∕⅛α<Juτ)Efθf, or
βuggi(h∙winged,
which would indeed fuit the land-rail. Aristophanes represents it as migrating from Libya: Aristotle says that it is quand» some, which may have been attributed to it from the analogy to the quail ; but he adds, that the crex ιeeks to destroy the nests of the blackbird, which cannot apply to the rail, since it never inhabits the woods. Still less is the crex of Herodotus
a
rail, for he compares its size to that of the ibis, which is ten times larger. The avoset, too, and the teal, have sometimes the cry
crex, crex :
and the bird which Belon heard repeating that cry on the banks of the Nile is, according to his account, a species of godwit. Thus the found represented by the word
erex,
belonging to several species, is not sufficiently precise to distinguish the land-rail.
They are in greatest plenty in Anglesea, where they appear about the 20th of April, supposed to pass over from Ireland, where they abound ; at their first aπival it is common to shoot seven or eight in a morning. They are found in most of the Hebrides·, and the Drk-neys. Οη their arrival they are very lean, weighing only six ounces ; but before they leave this island, grow so fat as to weigh above eight. The feathers on the crown of the head and hind-part of the neck are black, edged with bay colour : the coverts of the wings of the same colour, but not spotted ; the tail is short, and of a deep bay : the belly white ; the legs ash-coloured.
RALPH (James), a late ingenious historical and political writer, was born, we know not when or where, being sirst known as a schoolmaster in Philadelphia in North America. He came to England about the be-ginning of the reign of George I. and wrote some things in the dramatic way, which were not received with great applause ; but though he did not succeed as a poet, he was a very ingenious prose-writer. He wrote A History of England, commencing with the Stuarts, which is much esteemed ; as were his political essays and pamphlets, some of which were looked upon as mafter-pιeces> His last publication, The Case of Authors by Profession, is an excellent and entertaining performance. He died in 1762.
RAM,, in zoology. See Ovis.
Battering RAM,
in antiquity, a military engine used
fA I ‘
I
tried (says M. de Querhoent) to raise some: they thrived wonderfully at first, but after a fortnight’s confinement their long l¾ grew paralytic, and the birds could only crawl on their knees ; at last they expired.’
Gef∏er
says, that having long fed one, he found it to be peevish and quarrelsome.
to batter down the walls of bcsieged places. See
Battering Ram.
RAM s Head,
in a ship, is a great block belonging to the fore and main haulyards. It has three shives in it, in which the haulyards are put ; and in a hole at the end are reeved the ties,
RAMADAN, a solemn season of fasting among the Mahometans, See Mahometanism.
RAMAH (anc. geog.), a town of Benjamin, near θibea, (Judges) ; called
Rama os Saul
(i Sam. xxii.), six raiies from Jerusalem to the north ; memorable for tlιe story os the Levite and his concubine : Taken and τortιfied by Baasa king of Israel, m order to annoy the Kingdom of Judah. This Rama is mentioned lia. x. jer. xxxi. and Matth, ii. and is to be distinguished from 
Rama os i>amnsl,
ι Sam. xix. called alio
Ramatha,
ι Sam. ι. ιy. and
Ramathaim Z,oρhtm,
ibid. i. ι. which lay a great way to the west, towards Joppa, near Lydda,
I 
Ivlaccab. ii. the birth-place of Samuel ; adjoining to the mountains of Ephraim, and the place of his residence, 
I
bam. xv. &c. (Josephus). Called
Ramula
in the lower a ffe j (Gul. 1 yrius.) There is here a convent of the Fa-tneιsol the Holy Land, inhabited only by Portuguese, Spaniards, and Italians.
RAMATH-mi'zpe, (Joshua xiii.);
Ramoth-Masphe,
(Septuagint, vulgate) ;
Ramoth in Gilead,
or
Rernmath Galaaa,
(Seventy) ; a town in that tract of Gilead called
Maspha,
or
itiiι∙zpe,
one of the cities of refuge.
RAMAZZINI (Bernardin), an Italian physician, born at Carpi near Modena in 1633. He was profeffor of physic in the university of Modena for 18 years; and in 1700 accepted an invitation srom Padua, where he was made ; rector of the college; and died in 1714. His works were collected and published in London, 1716; of which, his treatise
De Mοrbis Artificurn,
" of the peculiar maladies of artificers,” will always be esteemed useful and curious.
RAMEKINS, a fortrefs of the United Netherlands, on the fouth coast ot the island of whlchevin, in the province of Zelaι∙ιd. Οηε of the cautionary towns given to Queen Elizabeth for the repayment of the charges she had been at for the defence of this republic in its infancy, hour miles east of Flushing ; in N. Lat. ∫ι. 34. E. Long. 4. 24.
RAMESES, (anc. geog.) ; a town built by the Israelites during their bondage in Egypt, and from which the Exodus took place, and which must have been to· waids and not far from the Arabian Gulph, feeing in the third station the Israelites arrived on its shore.
RAMESES, king of the Lower Egypt when Jacob went thither with his family, in the 1706th year before the Christian era. Ancient authors mention several other kings of Egypt os the same name ; and it is thought that one of thofe princes erected in the temple of the fun at Thebes, the magnificent obelisk which the emperor Constantine caused to be removed to Alexandria in the year 334; and that prince dying, his son Constaptius had the obelisk tranipoιted siom Alexandria to Rome in 352, where it was erected in the grand Circus. Its height was 132 seet. when the Goths sacked the city of Rome in 409, they overthrew this obelisk, which continued buried in the sand till the time of Sixtus V. in 1587, when it was found broken in three pieces ; which being joined together, it was fet up in the square os St John de Lateran. Οη
the
four fides
of 
this wonderful obeblk are a number of figures aud hl?-roglyphical characters, which, according to the explication of Ammianus Marcellinus, contain the praises of Rameses.
RAMIFICATION, the production of boughs or branches, or of figures resembling branches.
RAMILLIES, a imall village of Brabant, in the Austrian Low Countries, 12 milts north of Namur, and 22 south-east of Brussels. Lat. 50. 51. Long. 4. 48. hamous tor the battle fought by the allies commanded by the duke of Marlborough and M. D’Auverquirque, against that of the two crowns, commanded by the Duke of Bavaria and Marshal villeroy, the 22d of May 1706. See Britain, n0 357.
I he troops destined to compose the army of the allies being joined at the camp of Borchloon the 20th of May, baited the 2 ist. Ο11 the 2 2d the army marched from Borchloon in four columns, and posted itself the same day, with thc right towards the Mill of Quorem, extending with the left towards Blehen: from this camp was discovered the army of the two crowns, which wd⅛ encamped with the left at over-Espen, and the right towards the wood of Chapiaraux, Heylissem in their iront, and 1 ιrlemont in their rear. It was resolved tire same day to march the next morning towards the plain of Meerdorp or Mierdau, to view, the posture of the enemies, and determine what would be the most proper means of attacking them according to the movement they should make.
1 o
this end, an advanced guard of 600 horse and all the quarter-masters of the army were lent forward on the
2
3d at break of day.
Γhe same morning about four, the army marched in eight columns towards the aforesaid plain. The advan-ced guard and the quarter-masters arrived about eight at the height of Meerdorp or Mierdau ; srom whence the army of the enemy was seen in motion : a little after it was perceived that the enemy was marching through the plain of Mount St Andrew in four columns, of which information was given to the duke of Maιlbo-rough and M. D’Auverquirque, who immediately repaired to the said height ; and by the time these gene-rals were arrived there, the head of the enemy’s army already appeared at the tomb of ottomont upon the cauleway, near the Mehaigne : whereupon the Duke of Marlborough and M. D’Auverquirque made the army advance with all expedition.
T he enemy, as fast as they advanced, ranged in order of battle, with their right towards the tomb of ottomont upon the Mehaigne, extending with their left to Autr’Eglile ; having Tranquiers in front of their right, into which they had thrown several battalions of infan-try and 14 squadrons of dragoons, who had dismounted their horses to support them. They had placed many ot their infantry and a confiderable part of their artillery in the village of Ramillies, which fronted the right oi their main body, as well as into the village of ossuz, which fronted the left of their infantry, and into the village of Autr’Eglise, quite on their left. The front between the village of Ramillies and Autr’Eglise was covered by a imall stream of water, which rendered the meadows in some places marshes, and also by several roads covered with hedges ; which difficulties prevent-ed our cavalry ot the right wing from coming to action. As fast as the army of the allies arrived it was ranged in Order of battle ; with the left towards
Bonnef, and the right towards Folz, and every thing was disposed in order to attack. To this end, four battalions were detached to attack the village of Fran-quenies, and twelve battalions to attack the village of Ramillies, which were to be supported by the whole in-fantry.
Gur artillery began to cannonade the enemy at one ; at about two, the attack began with the post of Fran-quenies, where our infantry had the good fortune to drive the enemy from the hedges, where they were ad-vantageously posted, and at the same time all the caval-ry of our left wing advanced to attack that of the enemy’s right ; soon aster asl was in action. whilst the cavalry were engaged, the village of Ramillies was likewise attacked, and forced after a vigorous resistance.
The battle lasted about two hours, and was pretty obstinate; butfo soon as our cavalry had gained ground enough to attack the enemy in flank, they began to give way ; at the same time all their infantry were put in diforder, so that the whole retreated in great cofisu-sion. The cavalry of their lest wing formed a little upon the high ground, between
ossuz
and Mount St Andrew, to favour their retreat : but after the infantry and cavalry of our right wing had filed off between the bottom of the village of Ramillies and ossuz, the whole army marched in feveral columns to attack the enemy anew ; but they gave way before we could come up with them, and retired in great confusion, some towards the defile of the Abbey De La Ramée and towards Dongelberge, others towards Judogne, and others again towards Hougarde. They were pursued asl night so closely that they were obliged to abandon all their artillery and baggage, part of which was found at Judog-ne and at Hougarde, with their chests of ammunition.
The enemy lost above 30,000 men, 60 cannon, 8 mortars, standards, colours, baggage, &c. ; we about 3000. The rest of the campaign was spent in the sie-ges of ostend, Menin, and Aeth. In fourteen days the Duke defeated and dispersed the best appointed ar~ my the Fçench ever had, and recovered all Spanish Brabant, the marquifate of the holy Roman empire. The army of the enemy consisted of 76 battalions and 142 squadrons, including the king’s houshold troops
(La 
Maifon du Roi);
and the army of the allies was 74 bat-talions and 123 squadrons. Considering the import-ance of the victory, the loss of the allies was very smasl, not above 1100 being killed, and 2600 wounded.
RAMLA, the modern name of Arimathea. See
Arimathea.
RAMMER, an instrument used sor driving down stones ©r piles into the ground; or for beating the earth, m order to render it more solid for a foundation.
Rammer os
a
Gun,
the
Gm-βiek
; a rod used in charging of a gun, to drive home the powder, as also the shot, and the wad which keeps the shot from rosling out.
RAMPANT, in heraldry, a term applied to a lion, leopard, or other beast that ffu,nds on its hind legs, and rears up his fore-feet in the posture of climbing, showing only half his face, as one eye, &c. It is diffe-rent from saliant, in which the beast seems springing forward as if making a sally.
RAMPART, in fortification, is an elevation of earth round a place capable of resisting the cannon of 
an
enemy ; and formed into bastions, curtins, &c.
RAMPHASTOS, the
Toucan,
in ornithology.
See Rhamphastos.
RAMSAY (Allan), the Scots pastoral poet, was a barber in Edinburgh in the early part of the present century. His taste in poetry, however, has justly raised him to a degree of fame that may in somc meafure be considered as a recompense for the frowns of fortune. His songs are in universal esteem ; as is also the only dramatic performance attributed to him, viz. 
Patte and R-)ger,
or
The Gentle Shepherd,
a Scots pa-storal. He died in 1743 ; and was father to the ingenious Mr Ramsay, a celebrated painter of the present age, and who has likewise distinguished himself by somc well-written tracts ©n various branches of polite literature, particularly the
Invelligator.
Ramsay (Andrew Michael), generally known bv the name of the
Chevalier Ramsay,
was a polite Scots writer, born of a good family at Ayr in 1686. His good parts and learning recommended him to be tutor t® the son of the earl of wemyss ; after which, concei-. ving a disgust at the religion in which he had been edu-cated, he in the same ill humour reviewed other Christian churches ; and, finding none to his liking, rested for a while in Deifm. while he was in this uncertain state of mind, he went to Leyden ; where, falling into the company of one Poiret a roystic divine, he received the infection of mysticifm : which prompted him to con-sult M. Fenelon, the celebrated archbishop of Cambrav, who had imbibed principles of the same nature ; and who gained him over to the Catholic religion in 1709. The subsequent course of his life received its direction from his friendship and connections with this prelate ; and being appointed, governor to the duke de Chateau Thierry, and the prince de Turenne, he was madc a knight of the order of St Lazarus, He was sent for to Rome by the chevalier de St George, to undertake the education of his children ; but he found so many intrigues and dissensions on his arrival there in 1724, that he obtained the Chevalier’s leave to return to Pa-ris. He died in 1743, 1 'n the °fsice θ f intendant to the duke of Bouillon, prince de Turenne. The .most ca-pital work of his writing is the
Travels of Cyrus,
which has been several times printed in English.
Ramsay (the Reverend James), so justly celebrated for his philanthropy, was, on the 25th of Ju-ly
1 733> born at Frafershurgh, a small town in the county of Aberdeen, North Britain. His defcent w, as honourable, being, through his father, from the Ramsays of Melrose in Banffshire, and through his mother, from the ogilvies of Purie in Angus. Hi⅜-parents were of characters the most respectable, but in circumstances by no means affluent. From his earliest years he difcovered a serious disposition, and a strong thirst for knowledge ; and aster passing through the course of a Scotch grammar school education, he was inclined to pursue the studies requisite to sit him for the profeffion of a clergyman ; an inclination with which the wishes of his mother, a woman of eminent piety, powerfully concurred. Several circumstances, however, conspired to divert him for a time from his favourite pursuit.
He was educated in the episcopal persuasion ; and ha-ving been unhappy enough to lose his father while yet very young, he found, upon his advancing towards the state of manhood, that the joint fortunes of himself and..
his mother coald not bear the expence os a regular edu-cation in either of the universities of oxford or Cam-bridge, which he doubtless thought absolutely neceffary to one who aspired to respectability in the church of England. Yielding therefore to necessity, he resolved to study surgery and pharmacy ; and was with this vicw bound apprentice to Dr Findlay, a physician (a) in Fra-sershurgh. But though obliged to relinquish for a time his favourite studies, he did not think ignorance excu-sable in a surgeon more than in a clergyman, or conceive that he could ever.become eminent in the profession in which circumstances had placed him, merely by skill in setting a bone or compounding a medicine. He deter-mined therefore, with the full approbation of his master, who very soon discovered his talents for literature, to make himself acquainted with at least the outlines of the liberal arts and fcicnces ; and with this view he repaired in 1750 to the King’s College and university of Aberdeen, where he obtained one of the
bursaries
or
exhibitions
which are there annually bestowed upon such can-didates for them as display the shost accurate knowledge of the Latin language. The small sum of five pounds, however (which none of these bursaries exceed), was still inadequate to the expence of residence in college ; but our young student was soon to obtain a more valu-âble exhibition, and to obtain it likewise by his own merit.
During the long vacation he returned to his master Dr Findlay, and was by him intrusted with a very despe-rate case in surgery, of which his management may be Laid to have laid the foundation of his future fortunes. A female fervant of one of the judges of the Court of Seffion, who, when the court was not fitting, resided in the neighbourhood of Frasershurgh, had been so dread-fully gored by a bull, that hardly any hopes werc enter-stained of her recovery; but Mr Ramsay, to whose care she was entirely lest, treated the wound with such skil-ful attention, that, contrary to general expectation, his patient recovered. This attracted the judge’s notice, who having informed himself of the young man’s cir-eumstances and character, recommended him so effec-tually to Sir Alexander Ramsay of Balmain, that he j>refented him with a burfary of 15 pounds a-year, which commenced at the next
fejfioη
or
term,
in the fame college.
He now profecuted his studies with comfort ; and thougsh he was detained in college a year longer than is usual, being obliged, upon his acceptance of a second bursary, to begin his course anew, he always considered this as a fortunate circumstance, because it gave him the celebrated Dr Reid three years for his preceptor. To that great and amiable philosopher he fo recom-mended himself by his talents, his industry, and his vir-tues, that he was honoured with his friendship to the day of his death. Nor was it only to his masters that his conduct recommended him ; Sir Alexander Ramsay, whom he visited during fome of the vacations, was so Well pleased with his conversation, that he promised him
another bursary, in his gift, of 251. a-year, to
com.
ιnence immediately on the expiration of that which he enjoyed. This promise hc performed in the beginning of the year 1755 ; and at the solicitation of Dr Findlay even paid the money per advance to enable the cxhibi-tioner to travel for the purpose of improving himself in his profession.
Thus provided, Mr Ramsay went to London, and stu-died surgery and pharmacy under the auspices of Dr Macauly ; in whose family he lived sor two years, caressed and esteemed both by him and by his lady. Afterwards, having passed the usual examination at Surgeon’s-hall, he served in his medical capacity for several years in the royal navy; but how long he was continued in the station of a mate, or when and by whom he was first appoint-ed furgeon, we have not been able to learn. We can say, however,* upon the best authority, that by his humane and diligent discharge of his duty in either station, he endeared himself to the seamen, and acquired the e-steem of his officers.
of his humanity there is indeed one memorable in-stance, which must not be omitted, whilst he acted as surgeon of the Arundel, then commanded by Captain (now vice-admiral Sir Charles) Middleton, a slave-ship on her passage from Africa to the west Indies fell
in 
with the fleet to which the Arundel belonged. An epidemical distemper, too common in such vessels, had fwept away not only a great number of the unfortunate negroes, but also many of the ship’s crew, and among others the surgeon. In this distressed situation the commander of the Guinea ship applied to the English Commodore for medical assistance ; but not a surgeon or surgeon’s mate in the whole fleet, except Mr Ramsay, would expose himself to the contagion of fo dangerous a distemper. Prompted, however, by his own innate benevolence, and fully authorized by his no less bene-volent commander, the surgeon of the Arundel, regard-less of personal danger, and trusting in that God to whom mercy is more acceptable than sacrifice, went on board the infected ship, visited all the patients, and re-mained long enough to leave behind him written direc∙ tions for their future treatment. If a cup of cold water given in charity be entitled to a reward, how much more such an action as this ? But the rewards of Christianity are not immediate. Mr Ramsay indeed escaped the contagion ; but on his return to his own ship, just as she had got on the deck, he fell and broke his thighbone ; by which he was confined to his apartment for ten months, and rendered in a small degree lame through the remainder of his life.
The fearless humanity which he displayed on this occasion gained him the 'friendship and esteem of Sir Charles Middleton, which no future action of his life had the smallest tendency to impair ; but the fracture of his thigh-bone and his subsequent lameness determin. ed him to quit the navy, and once more turn hie thoughts towards the church. Accordingly, while the Arundel lay at St Christopher’s, he opened his views to
(a)
In the remote towns of Scotland the same man generally acts in the triple capacity of physician, furgeon, and apothecary ; and we could mention doctors of physic of the first eminence, who practise' thus within forty i∑riles of Edinburgh,
feme of
the principal inhabitants
of that
island, by whpm he was so strongly recommended to th¢ bishop of Lon-don, that on his coming home with Sir Charles Mid-dleton, who warmly joined in the recommendation, he was admitted into orders ; after which he immediate-ly returned to St Christopher’s, where hc was present-¢d by the governor to two rectories, valued at 70ol. a-year.
As sooh as he took possession of his livings, in 1763, he married Mifs Rebecca Akers, thc daughter of a planter of the best family-connections in the island, and began to regulate his household on the pious plan incul-cated in his
Essay on the Treatment and Converfion os the African Slaves in the British Sugar Colonies.
He summoned all his own slaves daily to the prayers of the fa-mily, when he took an opportunity of pointing out to them their duty in the plainest terms, reproving those that had done amiss, and commending such as lrad shown any thing like virtue
5
but he confessed that his occa-ssons for reproof were more frequent than for commen-dation.
As
became his office and character, he incul-cated upon others what he practised himself, and knew to be equally the duty of all. " Οη his first fettlement 
BS
a minister in the west Indies, he made some public attempts to instruct slaves. PIe began to draw up some casy, plain discourses for their instruction. He invited them to attend on Sundays, at particular hours. He appointed hours at home to instruct such sensible slaves as would of themselves attend. He repeatedly exhorted their masters to encourage such in their attendance. He re-commended the French custom, of beginning and ending work by prayer. But inconceivable is the listless-ness with which he was heard, and bitter was the censure heaped on him in return. It was quickly suggest. 
ed,
and generally believed, that he wanted to interrupt the work of slaves, to give them time, forsooth, to say their prayers ; that he aimed at the making of them Christians, to render them incapable of being good slaves. In one word, he stood, in opinion, a rebel con
vict
against the interest and majesty of plantership. And 
as
the Jews say, that in every punishment, with which they have been proved, since the bondage of Egypt, there has been an ounce of the golden caff of Horeb ; so might he say, that in every instance of prejudice (and they were not a few) with which, till within a year or two of his departure from the country, he was exerci-fed, there was an ounce of his fruitless attempts to improve the minds of slaves,, In the bidding prayer, he had inferted a petition for the converfion of those per-sons. But it was deemed so disagreeable a memento, that several white people, on account os it, left off attending divine service. He was obliged to omit the prayer entirely, to try and bring them back. In short, neither were the slaves, at that time, desirous os being taught, «or were their masters inclined to encourage them.”
That he was hurt by this neglect cannot be question-ed, for he had a mind benevolent, warm, and irritable ; but he still retained many friends amongst the most wor-
thy
members of the community : and as he was confci-ous of having done nothing more than his duty, he con-foled himself with reflecting, that thofe are " bleffed whom men revile, and persecute, and speak all manner of evil against falsely, for the sake of the gospel.”
Although his serious studies were now theological, ⅛C considered himself as answerable to God, his country,
and
his own family, for a proper use of every branch of knowledge which he possessed. He therefore took the charge of sever al plantations around him in the capacity of a medical practitioner ; and attended them with unremitting diligence, and with great success. Thus he livedl till the year 1777, when relinquishing the practice of physic entirely, he paid a visit to the place of his na-tivity, which he had not feen since 1755. mother, whofe latter days he had made comfortable by a handsome annuity, had been dead for fome years ; but he re-warded all who had been attentive to her, or in early life ferviceable to himself ; and he continued the pension to a sister who had a numerous family, for which kv* hushand was unable to provide.
After remaining three weeks in Scotland, and near a year in England, during which time he was admitted into the confidence of Lord George Germaine, secre-tary of state for the American department, Mr Ramsay was appointed chaplain to Admiral Barrington, then going out to take a command in the west In-dies. Under this gallant officer, and afterwards under Lord Rodney, he was present at several engage-ments, where he displayed a fortitude and zeal for thc honour of his country which would not have disgraeed the oldest admiral. To the navy, indeed, he seems to have been strongly attached ; and he wrote, at an early period of his life, an
Fffαy on the Duty and Qualifications of a Sea-officer,
with such a knowledge of the fervice as would have done honour to the pen of the most ex-perienced commander, of the first edition of this essay the profits were by its benevolent author appropriated to the Magdalen and British lying-in hofpitals, as those of the fecond and third (which last was published about the period of which we now write) were to the maritime school, or, in the event of its failure, to the marine society.
Although caressed by both the admirals under whom he served, and having such influence with the latter as to be able to render essential fervices to the Jews and other perfons whom he thought harshly treated at the capture of, St Eustatius, Mr Ramsay once more quitted the sea-service, and retired to his pastoral charge in the Island of St Christopher’s. There, however, though the former animosities against him had entirely subsided, and though his friendship was now solicited by every perfon of consequence in the island, he remained but a little while. Sick of the life of a planter and of the pro-spect of slavery around him, he resigned' his livings, bade adieu to the island, and returned to England with his wife and family in the end of the year 1781. Immediately on his arrival, he was, through the interest of his steady friend Sir Charles Middleton, presented to the livings of Teston and Nettlestead in the county of Kent.
Here he was soon determined, by the advice of those whom he most respected, to publish an
fissiy,
which had been written many years before,
on the Treatment and Converfion os African Slaves in the Britijh Sugar Colonies.
The controveisy in which this publication invol-ved him, and the acrimony with which it was carried on, are so fresh in the memory of all our readers, that no man who thinks of the narrow limits within which our biographical articles must be confined, will blame us for not entering into a detail of the particulars.-— Torrents of obloquy were poured upon the benevolent author by writers who were unfair enough to conceal
their names ; and it must be confessed, that his replies abounded with sarcasms, which the most rational friends to the caufe which he supported would not have been sorry to see blotted from his pages. The provocation, however, which he received was great ; and Mr Ram-fay, though an amiable, virtuous, and pious man, had a warmth of temper, which, though not deserving of praise, will be censuredby none who reflect on the frailties of our common nature. That the particular calumnies propagated against him on this occasion were wholly gronndless, it is impoffible to doubt, if we admit him to have been possessed of common understanding. when some years ago a story was circulated, of Swift’s ha-ving, when prebendary of Kilroot, been convicted before a magistrate of an attempt to commit a rape on the body of one of his parishioners, it was thought a sufficient confutation of the calumny to put the retail-er of it in mind, that the dean of St Patrick’s, though detested by the most powerful faction in the kingdom, lampooned without dread, and with great severity, the dean of Ferns for the very crime of which, had thi3 anecdote been true, he must have been conscious that all Ireland knew himself to be guilty ! Such conduct cannot be reconciled to common sense. Had Swift been a ravisher, though he might have been penitent, and reasoned in general terms against giving way to such licentious passions, he would never have satyrised a
particular person
for the crime of which he himself stood convicted. In like manner, had Mr Ramsay been a tyrant to his own slaves, though he might have ar-gued against slavery in the abstract, on the broad basis of virtue and religion, he never could have arraigned for similar cruelty a number of individuals in the very island which wstnessed his own enormities.
But the melancholy part of the narrative is behind. The agitation given to his mind by these calumnies, and the fatigues he underwent in his endeavours to re-scqe from mifery the most helpless portion of the human race, contributed to shorten a iife in no common degree useful. He had been for some time afflicted with a pain in his stomach, for which he was prevailed upon, tho’ with great reluctance, to try the effects of air and exercise, by attempting a journey of 100 miles. But in London, being seized with a violent vomiting of blood, he was unable either to proceed or to be removed home ; and in the house of Sir Charles Middleton he ended his days, on the 20th of July 1789, amidst the groans of his family, and the tears of many friends.— Thus died a man, of whom it is not too much to fay, that " the blessing of many that were ready to perish came upon him for whatever be the fate of the slave-trade (see Slavery), it is certain that his writings have contributed much to meliorate the treatment of slaves- He left behind him a widow and three daughters : and his works, besides those to which we have al-luded, consist of a volume of
Seasermons,
preached on board his majesty’s ship the Prince of wales, which show him to have been a master of true pulpit-eloquence ; and a
Treatse on Signals,
which was certainly written, and we think printed, though we know not whether it was ever published.
RAMSDEN’s
Machine
sor Dividing
Mathema-
TiCAL
Instruments,
is a late invention, by which these divisions can be performed with exceeding great 
accuracy, such as would formerly have been deemed in
credible. On difcoveι⅛g the method of construct'ng this machine, its inventor, Mr Ramsdsn of Piccadilly, received 615 1. from the commissioners of longitude ; engaging himself to instruct a certain number of persons, not exceeding ten, in the method of making and using this machine from the 28th october
1775
to 28th october 1777 : also binding himself to divide all octants and fextants by the fame engine, at the rate of three shillings for each octant, and six shillings for each brass sextant, with Nonius’s divisions to half minutes, for as long time as the commiffioners should think proper to let the engine remain in his poffeffion» Οί this fum of 615 1. paid to Mr Ramsden, 3001. was given him as a reward for the improvement made by him in discovering the engine, and the remaining 315l. for his giving up the property of it to the commis-sioners. The following description of the engine, is that given upon oath by Mr Ramsden himself.
" This engine consists of a large wheel of bell-metaI, supported on a mahogany stand, having three legs, which are strongly connected together by braces, so as to make it perfectly steady. Οη each leg of the stand is placed a conical friction-pulley, whereon the dividing-wheel rests : to prevent the wheel from Aiding off the friction-pulleys, the bell-metal centre under it turns in a socket on the top of the stand.
" The circumference of the wheel is ratched or cut (by a method which will be described hereafter) into 2160 teeth, in which an endless screw acts. Six revolutions of the screw will move the wheel a space equal to one degree.
" Now a circle of brass being fixed on the screw ar-bor, having its circumference divided into 60 parts, each division will consequently answer to a motion of the wheel of 10 seconds, six of them will be equal to a minute, &c.
" Several different arbors of tempered steel are truly ground into the socket in the centre of the wheel. The upper parts of the arbors that stand above the plane are turned of various sizes, to sust the centres of different pieces of work to be divided.
" when any instrument is to be divided, the centre of it is very exactly fitted on one of these arbors ; and the instrument is fixed down to the plane of the dividing wheel, by means of screws, which fit into holes made in the radii of the wheel for that purpose.
“ The instrument being thus fitted on the plane of the wheel, the frame which carries the dividing-point is connected at one end by finger-screws with the frame which carries the endlefs screw ; while the other end embraces that part of the steel arbor, which stands above the instrument to be divided, by an angular notch in a piece of hardened steel ; by this means both ends of the frame are kept perfectly steady and free from any shake.
" The frame carrying the dividing-point or tracer, is made to slide on the frame which carries the endlefs screw to any distance from the centre of the wheel
as 
the radius of the instrument to be divided may require, and may be there fastened by tightening two clamps ; and the dividing-point or tracer being connected with the clamps by the double-jointed frame, admits a free and eafy motion towards or from the centre for cutting the divisions, without any lateral shake.
" From what has been said, it appears, that an in-
strument thus fitted on the dividing-wheel may be moved to any angle by the screw and divided circle on its arbor, and that this angle may be marked on the limb of the instrument with the greatest exactness by the dividing-point or tracer, which can only move in ■a direct line tending to the centre, and is altogether freed from thofe inconveniences that attend cutting.by means cf a straight edge. This method of drawing lines will alfo prevent any error that might arise irom an expansion or contraction of the metal during the time of dividing,
. " The screw-frame is fixed on the top of a conical pillar, wlιich turns freely round its axis, and also moves freely towards or from the centre of the wheel, so that the screw-frame may be entirely guided^ by the frame which connects it with the centre : by this means ∙ any exceπtricity of the wheel and the arbor would not produce any error in the dividing ; and, by a particular contrivance (which will be described hereafter), the fcrew when pressed against the teeth of the wheel always moves parallel to itfelf ; so that a line joining the centre of the arbor and the tracer continued, will always make equal angles with the screw.
" Figure I. represents a perspective view of the en-gine.
“ Fig. 2. is a plan, of which sig. 3. represents a sec-tion on the line ΠΛ »
" The large wheel A is 45 inches in diameter, and has ten radii, each being supported by edge-bars, as represented in fig. 3· Fhese bars and radii are con-nected by the circular ring B, 24 inches in diameter and 3 deep ; and, for greater strength, the whole is cast in one piecc in bell-metal.
“ As the whole weight of the wheel A rests on its ring B, the edge-bars are deepest where they join it ; and from thence their depth diminishes, both towards the centre and the circumference, as represented in fig. 3.
“ The surface of the wheel A was worked very even and flat, and its circumference turned true. The ring C, of fine brass, was fitted very exactly on the circumference of the wheel ; and vvas fastened thereon with screws, which, after being screwed as tight as poffible, were well rivetted. The face of a large chuck being turned very true and fiat in the lath, the flattened surface A of the wheel was fastened agashst it with hold-fasts ; and the two surfaces and circumference of the ring C, a hole through the centre and the plane part round (b) it, and the lower edge of the ring B, were turned at the same time.
“ D is a piece of hard bell-metal, having the hole, which receives the steel-arbor (d), made very straight and true. This bell-metal was turned very true on an arbor ; and the face, which rests on the wheel at (b), was turned very flat, so that the steel arbor (d} might stand perpendicular to the plane of the wheel : this bell-metal was fastened to the wheel by six steel screws (1).
" A brass socket Z is fastened on the centre of the mahogany stand, and receives the lower part of the bell-metal piece D, being made to touch the bell-metal in a narrow part near the mouth, to prevent any obliquity of the wheel from bending the arbor : good fitting is by no means necessary. here ; since any stiake in this socket will produce no bad effect, as will appear hereafter when we describe the cutting frame.
“ The wheel was then put on its stand, the lower edge of the ring B resting on the circumference of three conical friction-pulleys W, to facilitate its motion round its centre. The axis of one of these pulleys is in a line joining the centre of the wheel and the middle of the endlefs screw, and the other two placed so as to be at equal distances from each other.
" F is a block of wood strongly fastened to one of the legs of the stand; the piece (g) is screwed to the upper side of the block, and has half holes, in which the transverse axis (h) turns : the half holes are kept toge-ther by the screws (i).
" The lower extremity of the conical pillar P termi-nates in a cylindrical steel·pin (k), which passes through and turns in the transverse axis (h), and is confined by a cheek and screw.
" To the upper end of the conical pillar is fastened the frame G, in which the endlefs screw turns : the pivots of the screw are formed in the manner of two frustums of cones joined by a cylinder, as represented at X. Thefe pivots are confined between half poles, which press only on the conical parts, and do not touch the cylindric parts ί the half holes are kept together by screws (a), which may be tightened at any time, to prevent the screw from shaking in the frame.
“ Οη the fcrew-arbor is a small wheel of brass K, having its outside edge divided into 60 parts, and numbered at every 6th division with 1, 2, &c. to 10. I he motion of this wheel is shown by the index (y) on the screw-frame G.
" H represents a part of the stand, having a parallel flit in the direction towards the centre of the wheel, large enough to receive the upper part of the conical brass pillar P, which carries the screw and its frame : and as the resistance, when the wheel is moved by the endless screw, is against that side of the flit H which is towards the left hand, that side of the flit is faced with brass, and the pillar is pressed against it by a steel fpring on the opposite side
i
by this means the pillar is strongly supported laterally, and yet the screw may be easily preffed from or against the circumference of the wheel, and the pillar will turn freely on its axis to take any direction given it by the frame L.
“ At each corner of the piece I are screws (n) of tempered steel, having polished conical points : two of them turn in conical holes in the screw-frame near (o), and the points of the oth¢r two fcrews turn in holes in the piece Qj the screws (p) are of steel, which being tightened, prevent the conical pointed screws from unturning when the frame is moved.
“ L is a brass frame, which serves to connect the end-less screw, its frame, &c. with the centre of the wheel : each arm of this frame is terminated by a steel screw, that may be passed through any of the holes (q) in the piece Q, as the thicknefs of work to be divided on the wheel may require, and are fastened by the finger-nuts (r).
" At the other end of this frame is a flat piece of tempered steel (b), wherein is an angular notch : when the endless screw is pressed against the teeth on the circumference of the wheel, which may be done by turning the singer-screw S, to press against the spring (t),
this notch embraces and presses against the steel arbor (d). This end of the frame may be raised or depressed by moving the prismatic slide (u), which may be fixed at any height by the four steel-screws (v).
“ The bottom of this slide has a notch (k); whose pjane is parallel to the endless-screw; and by the point of the arbor (d) resting in this notch, this end of the frame is prevented from tilting. The screw S is pre-vented from unturning, by tightening the finger-nut (w).
" The teeth on the circumference of the wheel were cut by the following method :
" Having considered what number of teeth on the circumference would be most convenient, which in this engine is 2160, or 360 multiplied by 6, I made two screws of the same dimensions, of tempered steel, in the manner hereafter described, the interval between the threads being such as I knew by calculation would come within the limits of what might be turned off the circumference of the wheel : one of these screws, which was intended for ratching or cutting the teeth, was notched across the threads, so that the fcrew, when pressed against the edge of the wheel and turned round, cut in the manner of a saw. Then having a segment of a circle a little greater than 60 degrees, of about the same radius with the wheel, and the circumference made true, from a very fine centre, I defcribed an arch near the edge, and set off the chord of 60 degrees on this arch. This segment was put in the place of the wheel, the edge of it was ratched, and the number of revolutions and parts of the screw contained between the interval of the 60 degrees were counted. The radius was corrected in the proportion of 360 revolu-tions, which ought to have been in 60 degrees, to the number actually found ; and the radius, sh corrected, was taken in a pair of beam∙compaffes : while the wheel was on the lath, one foot of the compaffes was put in the centre, and with the other a circle was de-scribed on the ring ; then half the depth of the threads of the screw being taken in dividers, was set from this circle outwards, and another circle was described cutting this point ; a hollow was then turned on the edge of the wheel of the same curvature as that of the screw at the bottom of the threads : the bottom of this hollow was turned to the same radius or distance from the centre of the wheel, as the outward of the two circles before-mentioned,
" The wheel was now taken off the lath ; and the bell-metal piece
D
was fcrewed on as before directed, which after this ought not to be removed.
" From a very exact centre a circle was described on the ring
C,
about √⅛∙ of an inch within where the bottom of the teeth would come. This circle was di-vided with the greatest exactness I was capable of, sirst into five parts, and each of these into three. These parts were then bisected four times : (that is to say) supposing the whole circumference of the wheel t© con-tain 2160 teeth, this being divided into five parts, each would contain 432 teeth; which being divided into three parts, each of them would contain 144 ; and this space bisected four times would givç
72,
36,
18, and $5
ther¢* fore each of the iast divisions would contain nine teeth. But, as I was apprehensive some error might arise from quinquesection and triscction, in order to examine the accuracy of the divisions, I described another circle
on 
the ring
C,
τ ⅛ inch within the former, and divided it by continual bisections, as 2160, 1080, 540, 270, 135, 67r, and 331 ; and as the fixed wire (to be described presently) crossed both the circles, I could examine their agreement at every 135 revolutions; (after ratching, could examine it at every 33l) : but, not finding any sensible difference between the two sets of divisions, I, for ratching, made choice of the former ; and,
aβ 
the coincidence of the fixed wire with an intersection could be more exactly determined than with
a
dot
or 
division, I therefore made use of intersections in both circles before described.
" The arms of the frame
L
were connected by a thin piece of brass of ∣ of an inch broad, having a hole in the middle of √⅛ of an inch in diameter ; across this hole a silver wire was fixed exactly in a line to the cen-tre of the wheel ; the coincidence of this wire with thc intersections was examined by a lens x ⅛ inch focus, fixed in a tube which was attached to one of the arms 
L
(a). Now a handle or winch being fixed on the end of the screw, the division marked 10 on the circle K was set to its index, and, by means of a clamp and adjusting screw for that purpose, the intersection mark-ed i on the circle
C
was set exactly to coincide with the fixed wire ; the screw was then carefully pressed against the circumference of the wheel, by turning the finger-screw S ; then, removing the clamp, I turned the screw by its handle 9 revolutions, till the interfec-tion marked 240 came nearly to the wire ; then, un-turning the finger-screw S, I released the screw from the wheel, and turned the wheel back till the intersection marked 2 exactly coincided with the wire, and, by means of the clamp before-mentioned, the division 1 o on the circle being set to its index, the screw was pressed against the edge of the wheel by the finger-screw S ; the clamps were removed, and the screw turned nine revolutions till the intersection marked 1 nearly coincided with the fixed wire ; the screw was released from the wheel by unturning the finger-screw
S 
as before, the wheel was turned back till the intersection 3 coincided with the fixed wire; the division 10 on the circle being set to its index, the screw was pressed against the wheel as before, and the screw was turned 9 revolutions, till the intersection 2 nearly coincided with the fixed wire, and the screw was released ; and
I 
proceeded in this manner till the teeth were marked round the whole circumference of the wheel. This was repeated three times round, to make the impreffion of the screw deeper. I then ratched the wheel round continually in the same direction without ever disengaging the screw; and, in ratching the wheel about 300 times round, the teeth were finished.
" Now it is evident, if the circumference of the wheel was even one tooth or ten minutes greater than the screw would require, this error would in the first in-
(a) The intersections are marked for the faite of illustration, though properly invisible, they lying under the brass plate.    
6
stanee be reduced
to τ J5 ∙ part of a revolution, or two
seconds and a half ; and these errors or inequalities of the teeth were equally distributed round the wheel at the distance of nine teeth from each other. Now, as the fcrew in ratching had continually hold of several teeth at the same time, and, these constantly changing, the above-mentioned inequalities soon corrected them· selves, and the teeth were reduced to a perfect equality. The piece of brass which carries the wire was how taken away, and the cutting screw was also removed, and a plain one (hereafter described) put in its place : on one end of the screw is a fmall brass circle, having its edge divided into 60 equal parts, and numbered at every sixth division, as before-mentioned. Οη the other end of
the
screw is a ratchet-wheel
C,
having 60 teeth, covered by the hollowed circle (d), which carries two clicks that catch upon the opposite sides of the ratchet when the screw is to be moved forwards. The cylinder S turns on a strong steel aιbor F, which passes through and is firmly screwed to the piece Y : this piece, for greater firmness, is aftached to the screw-frame
G
by the braces (v) :
a
spiral groove or thread is cut on the outside of the cylinder S, which serves both for holding the firing, and also giving motion to the lever J on its centre by means of a steel tooth (n), that works between the threads of the spiral. I o the lever is attached a strong steel pin(m), on which a brass socket (r) turns : this focket passes through a flit in the piece (p), and may be tightened in any part of the flit by the finger-nut (f) : this piece serves to regu-late the number of revolutions of the screw for each tread of the treadle R.
" T is a brass box containing a spiral spring ; a strong gut is fastened and turned tnree or four times round the crrcumference of this box ; the gut then passes several times round the cylinder S, and from thence down to the treadle R. Now, when the treadle is pressed down, the string pulls the cylinder S round its axis, and the clicks catching hold of the teeth on 
the
ratchet carry the screw round with it, till, by the tooth (n) working in the spiral groove, the lever J is brought near the wheel (d), and the cylinder stopped by the screw-head (x) striking ©n the top of the lever J ; at the same time the spring is wound up by the other end of the gut passing round the box T. Now, when the foot is taken off the treadle, the spring unbending itself pulls back the cylinder, the clicks leaving the ratchet and screw at rest till the piece (t) strikes on the end of the piece (p) : the number of revolutions of the fcrew at each tread is limited by the number of revolutions the cylinder is allowed to turn back before the stop strikes on the piece (p).
“ When the endless screw was moved round its axis with a confiderable velocity, it would continue that motion a little after the cylinder S was stopped : to
■    prevent this, the angular leγer « was made ; that when the lever J comes near to stop the screw (x), it, by a small chamfer, presses down the piece χ of the angular lever ; this brings the other end ⅛" of the same lever forwards, and stops the endless screw by the steel pin μ striking upon the top os it : the foot of the lever is raised again by a small spring pressing on the biace (v).
“ D, two clamps, connected by the piece «, slide
■    one on each arm of the frame L, and may be fixed at
pleasure
by the
four finger-fςrcws r , which press against steel springs to avoid spoiljng the arms : the pieçe (q) is made to turn without shake between two conical pointed screws (f), which are prevented srom untura-ing by tightening the finger-nuts N.
“ The piece M is made to turn on the piece (q), byp^ the conical pointed screws (s) resting in the hollow cen-ters (e).
“ As there is frequent occasion to cut divisions on inclined planes, for that purpose the piece ?,
in
which the tracer is fixed, has a conical axis at [each end, which turn in half holes : when the tracer is set to any inclination, it may be fixed there by tightening the steel screws 6.
Description os the Engine by which the endless screw ss thÿ Dividing Engine was cut.
ti Fig. 9. represents this engine of its full dimen, fions feen from one fide.
“ Fig. 8. the upper fide of the same as seen from above.
“ A represents a triangular bar of steel, to which the triangular holes in the pieces B and
C
are accurately fitted, and may be fixed on any part of the bar by the screws D∙
" E
is a piece of steel whereon the screw is intended to be cut ; which, after being hardened and tempered, has its pivots turned in the form of two frustums of c9nes, as represented in the drawings of the dividing engine (fig. ç.). These pivots were exactly fitted to the half holes F and T, which were kept together by the screws Z.
" H represents a screw of untempered steel, having a pivot I, which turns in the hole K. At the other end of the screw is a hollow centre, which receives
the 
hardened conical point of the steel pin M. when this point is fufficiently pressed against the screw, to prevent its shaking, the steel pin may be fixed by tightening the screws
Y.
" N is a cylindric nut, moveable on the screw H
5
which, to prevent any shake, may be tightened
by 
the screws O. This nut is connected with the saddle-piece
P
by means of the intermediate universal joint 
W,
through which the arbor of the screw H passes.
A 
front view of this piece, with a section across the screw arbor, is represented at
X.
This joint is connected with the nut by means of two steel flips S, which turn on pins between the cheeks T on the nut
N.
Thc other ends of these flips S turn in like manner on pin<
(a)    . Οηε axis of this joint turns in a hole in the cock
(b)    , which is fixed to the saddle-piece ; and the other turns in a hole (d), made for that purpose in the same piece on which the cock (b) is fixed. By this means, when the screw is turned round, the saddle-piece will slide uniformly along the triangular bar A.
" K is a small triangular bar of well-tempered steel, which Aides in a groove of the fame form on the saddle-piece
P.
The point of this bar or cutter is formed to the shape of the thread intended to be cut on the endless screw. when the cutter is set to take proper hold of the intended fcrew, it may be fixed by tightening the fcrew (e), which press the two pieces of brass
G
upon it.
“ Having measured the circumference of the divi-
ding-wheel, I found it would
require
a screw
about one
thread
in a hundred coarser than the guide-fcrew H. The wheels on the guide-fcrew arbor H, and that on the steel E, on which the fcrew was to be cut, were proportioned to each other to produce that effect, by giving the wheel L 198 teeth, and the wheel 200. These wheels communicated with each other by means of the intermediate wheel R, which also served to give the threads on the two screws the same direction.
" The saddle-piece P is confined on the bar A by means of the pieces (g), and may be made to Aide with 
a
proper degree of tightness by the screws (n).”
For Ramsden’s equatorial or portable observatorv, see Optics, n0 102. and Astronomy, n0 504. See alfo a long account of an equatorial instrument made by Mr Ramsden by the direction of Sir George Shuck-burgh in the Philofophical Transactions for r 793, art. x. 
p.
67. In this instrument the circle of declinations is four feet in diameter, and may be observed nearly to a fccond. The glass is placed between six pillars, which form the axis of the machine, and turn round by two pivots placed on two blocks of stone. See asso Barometer.
RAMSEY, a town of Huntingdonshire, 68 miles north of London, and 12 north-east of Huntingdon. It is situated as it were in an island, being everywhere .encompaffed with fens, except on the west, where it is separated from the
terra firma
by a causey for two ■miles. The neighbouring meers of Ramsey and whitle-sey, which are formed by the river Nyne, abound with fowl and fish, efpecially eel and large pikes. It was once famous for a very rich abbey, part of the gatehoufe of which is still standing, and a neglected statue of Ail-win ; the epitaph of whose tomb, which is reckoned one of the oldest pieces of English sculpture extant, ftylεs him " kinsman of the famous King Edward, alderman of all England, and the miraculous founder of this abbey.” It was dedicated to St Duristan, and its abbots were mitred, and fat in parliament ; and so ■many kings of England were benefactors to it, that its yearly rents, says Camden, were 70001. The town was then called
Ramsey the Rich ;
but by the dissolution of the abbey it foon became poor, and even lost its market for many years, till about 185 years ago it recovered it. It is held on Saturday, and is reckoned one of the most plentiful and cheapest in England. In the year 1721 a great number of Roman coins was found here, supposed to have been hid by the monks on. some incursion of the Danes. There is a charity school in the town for poor girls. W. Long. o. 19. N. Lat. 52. 26.
Ramsey, an island of south wales, on the coast of Pembrokeshire, about two miles in length, and a mile and a half broad. Near it are several small ones, known by the name of the
bishop and his clerks.
It is four miles west of St David’s, and 17 north-west of Mil-ford haven. It belongs to the bishopric of St Da-vid’s, and was in the last age, says Camden, famous for the death of one Justinian, a most holy man, who retiring hither from Britanny, in that age rich in saints, and devoting himself entirely to God, lived a long while in solitude, and being at last murdered by his fervant was enrolled among the martyrs. W. Long. 5. 20. N. Lat. 51. 55.
Ramsey, in the Isle of Man, to the north, a most
noted and spaclous haven, in which the grcat¢st fleet
may 
ride at anchor with safety enough from all winds but the north east, and in that case they need not be embayed. This town standing upon a beach of loose fand, or shingle, is in danger, if not timely prevented, of being washed away by the fea.
RAMSGATE, a sea-port town of Kent, in the isle of Thanet, five miles from Margate, where a very fine pier has been lately built for the security of ships that come into the harbour, being seated near the Downs, between the north and fouth Foreland, 10 miles north-ea∙ft of Canterbury. The town is situated in the cove of a chalky cliff. It was formerly but an obfcure fish-ing village, but since the year 1688 has been improved and enlarged by a succefsful trade to Russia and the east country. But what renders it most worthy of notice, and attracts multitudes of strangers, is the new harbour, which is one of the most capacious in England, if not in Europe. It was begun in the year 1750, but delayed by various interruptions. It con-sists of two piers ; that to the east is built wholly of Purbeck stone, and extends itfelf into the ocean near 800 feet before it forms an angle ; its breadth on the top is 26 feet, including a strong parapet wall, which runs along the outside of it. The other to the west is constructed of wood as far as the low-water mark, but the rest is of stone. The angles, of which there are five in each pier, consist of 160 feet each, with octa-gons at the end of 60 feet diameter, leaving an en-trance of 200 feet into the harbour, the depth of which admits of a gradual increase of 18 to 36 feet. E. Long, 
i-
50. N. Lat. 51. 22.
RAMTRUT, a deity worshipped by the Ranazins of Hindostan, where he has a celebrated temple at Οποί·. He is represented as more resembling a mon-key than a man.
RAMUS, in general, denotes
a
branch of any thing, as of a tree, an artery, &c. Tn the anatomy of plants it means the sirst or lateral branches, which go off from the petiolum, or middle rib of a leaf. Tne subdivisions of thefe are called
surculi ;
and the final divisions into the most minute of ail, are by some called 
capiUamεηta ;
but both kinds are generally denominated 
surculus.
Ramus (Peter), was one of the most famous pro* fessors of the 16th century. He was born in Picardy in 1515. A thirst tor learning prompted him to go to Paris when very young, and he was admitted a servant in the college of Navarre. Spending the day in waiting on his masters, and the greatest part of the night in study, he made such surprising progress, that, when he took his master of arts degree, he offered to maintain a quite opposite doctrine to that of Aristotle. This raifed him many enemies ; and the two first books he published,
Inβitutiones Dialectic#,
and
Arifio-telic<e Aaimadverfiοnes,
occasioned great disturbances in the university of Paris : and the opposition against him was not a little heightened by his deserting the Romish religion, and professing that of the Reformed. Beiκg thus forced to retire from Paris, he visited the univtr-sities of Germany, and received great honours wshere-ever he came. He returned to France in 157r, and iost his life miserably in the horrid maffacre of St Bartholomew’s day. He was a great orator, a man°of ur.i-versal learning, and endowed with very fine moral quad-
ties. He published many books, which Teissier eou-merates. Ramus’s merit in his opposition to Aristotle, and his firmness in undermining his authority, is unque-stionably great. But it has been doubted, and with much reason, whether he was equally successful in his attempts after a new logical institute. we have the following general outline of his plan in Dr Enfield’s History of Philosophy. “ Considering dialectics as the art of deducing conclusions from premises, he endeavours to improve this art, by uniting it with that of rhetoric. 0f the several branches ot rhetoric, he considers invention and disposition as belonging equally to logic. Making Cicero his chief guide, he divides his treatise on dialectics into two parts, the first of which treats of the invention of arguments, the second of judgments. Arguments he derives not only from what the Aristotelians call middle terms, but from any kind of proposition, which, connected with another, may servc to prove any assertion. of these he enumerates various kinds. Judgments he divides into axioms, or self-evi-dent propositions, and
diant>'ea,
or deductions by means of a series of arguments. Both these he divides into various classes ; and illustrates the whole by examples from the ancient orators and poets.
" In the logic of Ramus, many things are borrowed from Aristotle, and only appear under new names ; and many others are derived from other Grecian sources,
particularly from the dialogues of Plato, and the logic of the Stoics. The author has the merit of turning the art of reasoning from the futile speculations of the fchools to forensic and common use ; Rut his plan is defective in confining the whole dialectic art to the single object σf disputation, and in omitting many things, which respect the general culture of the understanding and the investigation of truth. Notwithstanding the defects of his system, we cannot, however, subscribe to the severe censure which has been passed upon Ramus by Lord Bacon and others ; for much is, we think, due to him for having with so much firmness and perseverance asserted the natural freedom of the human understanding. The logic of Ramus obtained great authority in the schools of Germany, Great Britain, Holland, and France ; and long and violent contests arose between his followers and those of the Stagyrite, till his fame vanished before that of Descartes.”
RAN, in the old English writers, means open or public robbery, so manifest as not to be denied. Ran
dicitur aperta rapina qua negari non potefi.
Lamb. 125. Leg-Canut, cap. 58. Hence it is now commonly said of one who takes the goods of another injαrioufly and vio» lently, that he has taken or snatched all he could
rap
an⅛ 
ran.
RANA, or Ranulδ. See Ranula.
R
ANA,the frog, in zoology;
a
genus belongingto the order of amphibia reptilia. The body is naked, furnished with four feet, and without any tail. Therc are 17 specics. The most remarkable are,
i.
The temporaria, or common frog. This is an animal so well known, that it needs no defcription; but some of its properties are veιy singular.
Its fpring, or power of taking large leaps, is re-markably great, and it is the best swimmer of all four-footed animals. Nature hath finely adapted its parts for thofe ends, the fore members of 'the body being very lightly made, the hind legs and thighs very long, and furnished with very strong mufcles.
while in a tadpole state, it is entirely a water animal ; the work of generation is performed in that ele-χr>ent, as may be seen in every pond during spring, when the female remains oppressed by the male for a number of days.
The work of propagation is extremely singular, it be-ing certain that the frog has not a
penis intrans.
There appears a strong analogy in this case between a certain class of the vegetable kingdom and those animals ; for it is well known, that when the female frog depofits its spawn, the male instantaneously impregnates it with what we may call a
sarina f∑cundcms,
in the same manner as the palm-tree conveys fructification to the flowers of the female, which would otherwise be barren.
As soon as the frogs are released from their tadpole state, they immediately take to land ; and if the weather has been hot, and there fall any resreihing showers, you may fee the ground for a confiderable space perfectly blackened by myriads of these animalcules, seek-ing sor some secure lurking places. Some philoso-phers, not giving themselves time to examine into this phenomenon, imagined them to have been generated in the clouds, and showered on the earth ; but had they, like our Derham, but traced them to the next pool, they would have found a better folution of the difficulty. See
Preternatural RAiNs.
As frogs adhere closely to the backs of their own fpecies, so we know they will do the same by fish.— walton mentions a strange story of their destroying pike ; but that they will injure, if not entirely kill carp, is a fact ⅛difputable, srom the following rela-tion. Not many years ago, on fishing a pond belong-ing to Mr Pitt of Encomb, Dorsetshire, great numbers of the carp were found each with a frog mounted on it, the hind legs clinging to the back, and the fore legs fixed in the corner of each eye of the fish, which were thin and greatly wafted, teized by carrying so disagrce-able a load. 1 hese frogs Mr Pennant supposes to lιave been males disapppointed of a mate.
The croaking of frogs is well known ; and from that in fenny countries they are distinguished by ludicrous titles : thus they are styled
Dutch nightingales,
and
Bos-ton waites.
Yet there is a time
of
the year when they become mute, neither croaking nor opening their mouths for a whole month : this happens in the hot season, and that is in many places known to the country people by tbe name of the
paddock moon.
It is said, that during that period their mouths are so closed, that no force (without killing the animal) will be capable of opening them.
Thefe, as well as other reptiles, feed but a final! space of the year. The food of this genus is flies, in-sects, and fnails. Toads are said to feed also on bees, and to do great injury to those useful infects.
During winter, frogs and toads remain in a torpid state : the last of which will dig into the earth, and cover themselves with almost the same agility as the mole. See Physiology, n0 48 and note (b), and sh 52.
2.    The esculenta, or edible frog, differs from the former, in having a high protuberance in the middle of the back, forming a very sharp angle. Its colours are also more vivid, and its marks more distinct ; the ground colour being a pale or yellowish green, marked with rows of black spots from the head to the rump.—. This, and (Mr Pennant thinks) the former, are eaten. He has feen in the markets at Paris whole hampers full, which the venders were preparing for the tab!e, by fkinning and cutting off the fore-parts, the loins and legs only being kept ; but his strong dislike to thesc reptiles prevented a close exanshiatioa into the species,
3.    In the country of Pennsylvania, and fome other parts of North America, there is a very large species of frogs called the
bullfrog,
or
rana ocellatd.
Their irides arc of a dusky red, surrounded with a yellow ring. The auricles are covered with a thin circular skin, which forms a spot behind each eye. They have four toes on the fore-feet, and five palmated toes behind. Their co-lour is a dusky brown, mixed with yellowish green, and fpotted with black. The belly is yellowish, and faintly fpotted. These make a monstrous roaring noise like
a 
bull, only somewhat shore hoarse. Their fize is superior to that of any other of the genus, and they can spring forward three yards at a leap. By this means they will equal in fpecd a very good horse in its swistest couisse. Their places of abode are ponds, or bogs with stagnant water ; but they never frequent streams. when many
of them are together, they make such a horrid noise, that two people cannot understand each other’s speech. They croak all together, and then stop for a little and begin again. It feems as if they had a captain atno∏g them : for when he begins to croak, all the others iol-low ; and when he stops, they also become filent. when this captain gives the signal for stopping, you hear a note like
poop
coming from him. In the day-time they seldom make any great noise, unless the sky is covered ; but in the night-time thcy may be heard at the distance of a mile and an half, when they croak, they are commonly near the surface of the water, under the bushes, and have their heads out of the water. By going slowly, therefore, one may get up almost quite close to3 them before they go away. As soon as they are quite under water, they think themselves fate, though it be ever so shallow. Thesc creatures kill and eat young ducklings and goslings, and sometimes carry off chickens that come too near the water ; when beaten, they cry out almost like little children. As soon as the air begins to grow a little cool in autumn, they hide them-felves under the mud in the bottom of stagnant waters, and lie there torpid during the winter. As soon as the weather grows mild towards summer, they begin to get out of their holes and croak. They are supposed by the people ofvirginia to be the purifiers of waters, and are respected as the genii of the fountains. Some of them were brought to England alive scveral years ago.
4. The bufo, or toad, is the most deformed and hι-deous of all animals. The body is broad ; the back flat, and covered with a pimply dusky hide ; the belly large, swagging, and swelling out ; the legs short, and its pace laboured and crawling ; its retreat gloomy and filthy : in short, its general appearance is such as to strike one with disgust and horror. Yet it is said by thofe who have refolution to view it with attention, that its eyes are fine ; to this it seems that Shakespeare alludes, when he makes his Juliet remark,
Some fay the lark and loathed toad change eyes;
As if they would have been better bestowed on so charming a songster than on this raucous reptile.
Çut the hideous appearance of the toad is fuch as to make this one advantageous feature overlooked, and to have rendered it in all ages an object of horror, and the origin of most tremendous inventions. Ælian makes its venom' so potent, that basilisk-like it conveyed death by its vcry look and breath ; but Juvenal is content with making the Roman ladies who were weary of their hushands form a potion from its entrails, in order to get rid of the good man. This opinion begat others of a more dreadful nature ; for in after-times su-perstition gave it preternatural powers, and made it a principal ingredient in the incantations of nocturnal hags.
This animal was believed by some old writers to have a stone in its head fraught with great virtues medical and magical : it was distinguished by the name of the reptile, and called the
toadfione, lιfοηites, era· paudine, kr(j ttenfictn ;
but all its-fancied powers, vanish-ed on the discovery· of its.being nothing but the fossil-tooth of the sea-wolf¢, or. of some other flat-toothed
fish, not unfrequeΛt in our island as well as feveral other countries.    . .
But these fables have been long exploded. And as to the notion of its being a poifonous animal, it is pro· bable that its exceffive deformity, joined to the faculty it has of emitting a juice from its pimples, and a dusky liquid from its hind parts, is the foundation of the report.
That it has any noxious qualities there feem to have been no proofs in the fmallest degree fatisfactory, tho’ we have heard many strange relations on that point.—. 
Οη
the contrary, there have been many who have taken them in their naked hands, and held them long without receiving the least injury : it is alfo well known that quacks have eaten them, and have besides squeezed their juices into a glass and drank them with impunity, we may say also, that tliese reptiles are a common food to many animals ; to buzzards, owls, Norfolk plovers, ducks, and snakes, who would not touch them were they in any degree noxious.
Go far from having venomous qualitics, they have of late been confidered as if they had beneficent ones ; particularly in the cure of the most terrible of diseases, the
cancer,
by suction : (See
British Zoology,
vol. iii. Append, p. 389,
etfiq.)
But, from all circumstances, as Mr Pennant observes, they seem only to have ren« dered a horrible complaint more loathsome.
The most full information concerning the nature and qualities of this animal is contained in the following letters from Mr Arscott and Mr Pittfield to Dr Milles. " It would give me great pleasure (says Mr Arscott) to be able to inform you of any particulars worthy Mr Pennant’s notice, concerning the toad who lived so many years with us, and was so great a favourite. Tlie greatest curiosity in it was its becoming so remarkably tame. It had frequented some steps before the hall-door some years before my acquaintance commenced with it, and had been admired by my father for its size (which was of the largest I ever met with), who constantly paid it a visit every evening. I knew it mylelf above 30 years ; and by constantly feeding it, brought it to be so tame, that it always came to the candle, and looked up as if expecting to be taken up and brought upon the table, where I always fed it with infects of all forts ; it was fondest of flesh maggots, which I kept in bran ; it would follow them, and, when within a proper distance, would fix its eye, and remain motionlefs for near a quarter of a minute, as if preparing for the stroke, which was an inftantaneous throwing its tongue at a great distance upon the insect, which stuck to the tip by a glutinous matter : the motion is quicker than the eye can follow (a).
" 1
always imagined that the root of its tongue was placed in the forepart of its under jaw, and the tip to-wards its throat, by which the motion must be a half circle ; by which, when its tongue recovered its fituation, the insect at the tip would be brought to the place ot deglutition. I was confirmed in this by never observing any internal motion in its mouth, excepting one> swallow the instant its tongue returned. Possibly I might be mistaken ; for I never diffected one, but con-
(a)
This rapid capture of its prey might give occasion
to
the report of its fascinating powers, Linnæus says,
InfictΛ in fauces fafiiηο revocat.
tented
myself with opening its mouth, and slightly in-specting it.
" You may imagine, that a toad, generally detested, (although one of the most inoffensive of all animals), so much taken notice of and befriended, excited the curiosity of all comers to the house, who all desired to see it fed ; so that even ladies so far conquered the hor-rors instilled into them by nurses, as to desire to see it. This produced innumerable and improbable reports, making it as large as the crown of a hat, &c. &c.”
The following are answers from the same gentleman to fome queries proposed by Mr Pennant.
" Firfi,
I cannot say how long my father had been acquainted with the toad before I knew it ; but when I first was acquainted with it, he uscd to mention it as the old toad I’ve known so many years ; I can answer for 36 years.
" Secondly,
No toads that I ever saw appeared in the winter season. The old toad made its appearance as soon as the warm weather came, and I always con-cluded it retired to some dry bank to repose till the spring. AVhen we new-lay, d the steps, I had two holes made in every third step, with a hollow of more than a yard long for it, in which I imagine it slept, as it came from thence at its first appearance.
Thirdly,
It was seldom provoked: neither that toad, nor the multitudes I have seen tormented with great cruelty, ever showed the least desire of revenge, by spitting or emitting any juice from their pimples.— Sometimes, upon taking it up, it would let out a great quantity of clear water, which, as I have often feen it do the same upon the steps when quite quiet, was certainly its urine, and no more than a natural evacuation.
Fourthly,
A toad has no particular enmity for the spider ; he used to eat five or fix with his millepedes (which I take to be its chief food) that I generally provided for it before I found out that flesh maggots, by their continual motion, was the most tempting bait ;
but, when offered, it eat blowing flies and humble bees that come from the rat-tailed maggot in gutters, or in short any insect that moved. I imagine, if a bee was to be put before a toad, it would certainly eat it to its cost ; but as bees are seldom stirring at the same time that toads are, they can seldom come in their way, as they seldom appear after sun-rising or before sun-sct. In the heat of the day they will come to the mouth of their hole, I believe, for air. I once from my parlour window observed a large toad I had in the bank of a bowling-green, about 12 at noon, a very hot day, very busy and active upon the grafs ; so uncommon an appearance made me go out to see what it was, when I found an innumerable fwarm of winged ants had drop-ped round his hole, which temptation was as irresistible as a turtle would be to a luxurious alderman.
" Fifthly,
whether our toad ever propagated its fpecies, I knφw not ; rather think not, as it always ap-peared well, and not lessened in bulk, which it must have done, I should think, if it had discharged so large a quantity of spawn as toads generally do. Tlie femalcs that are to propagate in the spring, I imagine, instead of retiring to dry holes, go into the bottom of ponds, and lie torpid among the weeds : for to my great furprife, in the middle of the winter, having for amufe-ment put a long pole into my pond, and twisted it till it had gathered a large volume of weed, on taking it 
off
I found many toads ; and having cut some asunder with my knife, by accident, to get off the weed, found them full of spawn not thoroughly formed. I am not pofitive, but think there were a few males in March ; I know there are 30 males (b) to one female, 12 or 14 of whom I have seen clinging round a female : I have often disengaged her, and put her to a solitary male, to fee with what eagerness he would seize her. They impregnate the spawn as it is drawn (c) out in long strings, like
a
necklace, many yards long, not in
a 
large quantity of jelly, like frogs fpawn.
(b)
   Mr John Hunter has assured me, that during his residence at Belleisle, he dissected some hundreds of toads, yet never met with a single female among them.
(c)    I was incredulous as to the
obfietrical
offices of the male toad; but fince the end is so well accounted for, and the fact established by such good authority, belief must take place.
Mr Demours, in the Memoirs of the French Academy, as translated by Dr Templeman, vol. i. p. 371, has been very particular in refpect to the male toad as acting the part of an
accoucheur :
His account is curious, and claims a place here.
" In the evening of one of the long days in fummer, Mr Demours, being in the king’s garden, perceived two toads
coupled together
at the edge of an hole, which was formed in part by a great stone at the top.
“ Curiosity drew him to see what was the occasion of the motions he observed, wheβ1 two facts equally new surprised him. The
firfi
was the extreme difficulty the female had in laying her eggs, insomuch that she did not seem capable of being delivered of them without some assistance. The
fecond
was, that the male was mounted on the back of the female, and exerted all his strength with his hinder feet in puffing out the eggs, whilst his forefeet embraced her breast.
“ In order to apprehend the manner of his working in the delivery of the female, the reader must observe, that the paws of these animals, as well those of the fore-feet as of the hinder, are divided into several toes, which can perform the office of fingers.
" It muftt be remarked likewise, that the eggs of this species of toads are included each in a membranous coat that is very firm, in which: is contained the embryo ; and that these eggs, which are oblong and about two lines in length, being fastened one to another by a short but very strong cord, form a kind of chaplet, the beads of which are distant from each other about the half of their length, lt is by drawing this cord with his paw that the male pcrforms the function of a midwife, and acquits himself in it with a dexterity that one would not expect from fo Jumpish an animal.
" The presence of the observer did not a little discompose the male : sor some time he stopped short, and threw
« Sixthly,
Infects being thctr food, I
never
saw any toad show any liking or dislike to any plant (d).
" Seventhly,
1 hardly remember any perfops taking it up except my father and myielf ; 1 do not know whether it had any particular attachment to us.
Eighthly,
In respect to its end, I answer this last query. Had it not been for a tame raven, I make no doubt but it would have been now living ; who one day feeing it at the month of its hole, pulled it out, and although I rescued it, pulled out one eye, and hurt it so, that notwithstanding its living a twelvemonth it never enjoyed itself, and had a difficulty of taking its food, miffing the mark for want of its eye : before that accèdent it had all the appearance of perfect health.”
6.    The rubeta, or natter-jack, frequents dry and fan-dy places : it is found on Putney common, and also near Reveshy abbey, Lmcolnshire. It never leaps, neither does it crawl with the flow pace of a toad, but its motion is liker to running. Several are found commonly together, and like others of the genus they appear in the evenings. The upper part of the body is of a dirty yellow, clouded with brown, and covered with porous pimples,of unequal sizes : on the back is a yellow line. The upper fide of the body is of a paler hue, marked with black spots, which are rather rough. Οη the fore-feet are four divided toes ; on the hind five, a little webbed. The length of the body is two inches and a quarter; the breadth, one and a quarter: the length of the fore-legs, one inch one-sixth ; of the hind legs, two inches,
we
are indebted to SirJoseph Banks, for this account.
7.    The pipal, or Surinam toad, is more ugly than even the common one. The body is flat and broad ; the head small ; the jaws, like those of a mole, are extended, and evidently formed for rooting in the ground : tlιe skin of the neck forms a fort of wrinkled collar: the.colour of the head is of a dark chesnut, and the eyes are small : the back, which is vcry broad, is of
a 
hghtish grey, and feems covered over with a number of small eyes, which are round, and placed at nearly equal distances. These eyes are very different from what they seem : they are the animal’s eggs, covered with their shells, and placed therc for hatching. Thefe eggs are buried deep in the skin, and in the beginning of incubation but just appear j and are very visible when the young animal is about to burst from its confinement. They are of a reddish, ihining yellow colour ; and the spaces between them are full os small warts, resembling pearls.
This is their situation previous to their coming forth ; but nothing so much demands our admiration as the
manner of
their production. The egga, when formed
i∏ tsie ovary, are sent, by some internal canals, which anatomists have not hitherto described, to lie aηd come to maturity under the bony substance of the back : in this state they are impregnated by the male, whose seed finds its way by pores very singularly contrived, and pierces not only the skin but the periosteum : the
skin, 
however, is still apparently entire, and forms a very thick covering ever the whole brood ; but as they advance to maturity, at different intervals, one after another, the egg seems to start forward, and burgeons from the back, becomes more yellow, and at last breaks j when the young one puts forth its head : it still, however, keeps its situation until it has acquired a proper degree of strength, and then it leaves the shell, but still continues to keep upon the back of the parent. In this manner the pipal is seen travelling with her won-derous family on her back, in all the different stages of maturity. Some of the strange progeny, not yet come to sufficient perfection, appear quite torpid, and as yet without life in the egg : others seem just beginning tts rise through the skin ; here peeping forth from the shell, and there having entirely forsaken their prison ; some are spprting at large upon the parent’s back, and others defcending to the ground to try their own fortune below. The male pipal is every way larger than the fe-male, and has the skin less tightly drawn round the body. The whole body is covered with pullules, resembling pearls ; and the belly, which is of a bright yel-low, seems as if it were sewed up from the throat to the vent,. a feam being seen to run in that direction. This animal, like the rest of the frog kind, is most probably harmless.
8.    The water frog of Cateshy has large black eyes* yellow irides, and long limbs : the upper part of the head and body is of a dusky green, fpotted with black ; and from each eye to the nose is a white line ; and alfi> 
a
yellow line along the sides to the rump. They fre-quent rivulets and ditches, which they do not quit
for 
the dry land. It is said they will spring five or six yards at a leap.
9.    The rana arborea, or green tree frog of Cateshy, is of a slender shape and bright green colour, marked or» each side with a line of yellow : the eyes are black ; the irides yellow ; they have four toes before and five behind ; at the end of each toe there ia a round membrane, concave beneath, and not unlike the mouth of a leech. They lurk under the lower fides of leaves, even of the tallest trees, and adhere firmly, by means of the membranes at the ends of their toes, {ticking to the smoothest surface t a looking-glass was held before one,.
threw on the
curious impertinent
a fixed look that marked his disquietness and fear ; but he soon re⅛∙,ιr.ned to. his work with rnoie precipitation than before, aad a moment after he appeared undetermined whether he should. continue it or not. The female likewise discovered her uneasiness at the fight of the stranger, by motions that interrupted fometimes the male in his operation. At length, whether the silence and steady posture of the fpec-tator had dissipated their fear, or that the
case
was urgent, tlie raaleresumed his work with the same vigour, and succefsfully performed his function.”
(u) Thia question arose from an assertion of Linnaeus, that the toad delighted in filthy herbs.
Delectatur co-tula, actna, Jiach∖<ιle fcetide.
The unhappy deformity of the animal seems to be the only ground of this as vveli as another misreprefentation, of its conveying a poison with its pimples, its touch, and even its. breath»
Vtrru^ t¢ iactescentes vcnena!x infufi% tactui anhelitν,
at fouy yards
distance ; it reached it
at one ieap, and
stuck closely to it. At night these frogs make an in-, qessant chirping, and leap from fpray to spray in search of infects. This species is common to America and the warmer parts of Europe.
i o. The land frog of Catefby has much the appearance of a toad; above it is grey or brown, spottecs with dusky; below white, faintly fpotted; the irides are red; and the legs short. They frequent the high-lands, and are seen most frequently in wet weather and in the hottest time of the day : they leap, feed on infects, parti-cularly the fire-fly and ant. Sometimes the Americans bake and reduce this fpecies to powder, which, mixed with υrrice root, is taken as a cure for a tympany.
11. The cinereous frog has a gibbous, cinereous, and smooth back ; the belly is yellow and granulated : on each side, from the nose to the rump, there is a white line ; and there is the same on the ontside of the thighs and legs ; the toes are bullated at their ends. They inhabit Carolina.
RANAI, one of the Sandwich islands discovered by Captain Cooke, is about nine miles distant from Mowee and Morotoi, and is situated to the south-west of the passage between those two isles. The conntry towards the south is elevated and craggy ; but the other parts of the island had a better appearance, and feemed to be well inhabited. It abounds in roots, such as sweet potatoes,
taro,
and yams ; but produces very few plan-tains and bread-fruit trees. The fouth point of Ranai is in the latitude of 20o 46' north, and in the longitude of 2c30 8 east.
RANCID, denotes a fatty substance that is become rank or musty, or that has contracted an ill fmell by being kept clofe.
RANDIA, in botany : A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the pentandria clafs of plants ; and in the natural method ranking with thofe of which the order is doubtful. The calyx is monophyllous ; the corolla salver-shaped ; the berry unilocular, with a cap-sular rind. There are two species, viz. the mitis and aςuleata.
RAND0LPH (Thomas), an eminent English poet in the 17th century,was born in Northamptonshire 1605. He was educated at westminster and Cambridge, and very early distinguished for his excellent genius ; for at about nine or ten years of age he wrote the History of the Incarnation of our Saviour in, verse. His subsequent writings established his character, and gained him the esteem and friendship of some of the greatest men of that age, particularly of Ben Johnson, who adopted him •one of his sons in the muses. He died in 163c, and was honourably interred. He wrote, 1. .The Muses Looking-glafs, a
comedy. 2.
Amyntas, or
the Xmpossible 
Dowry, a pastoral, acted before the king and queen. 3. Aristippus, or the Jovial Philosopher. 4. The Con-ceited Pedlar. 5. The Jealous Lovers, a comedy. 6. Hey for Honesty, down with Knavery, a comedy ; and· several poems.
RANDOM shot, in gunnery, is a shot made when the muzzle of a gun is raised above the horizontal line, and is not designed to shoot directly or point-blank.
The utmost random os any piece is about ten times as far as the bullet will go point-blank. The bullet will go farthest when the piece is mounted to about 450 above the level range. See Gunnery and Pr,o-jectiles.
RANGE, in gunnery, the path of a bullet, or the line it describes from the mouth of the piece to the point where it lodges. If the piece lie in a line parallel to the horizon, it is called the
right
or
level range :
if it be mounted to 45 % it is said to have the 
utmofi range ;
all others between 00 and 45u are called the
intermediate ranges. -
RANGER, a fworn officer of a forest, appointed by the king’s letters patent ; whose business is to walk through his charge, to drive back the deer out of the purlieus, &c. and to present all trespasses within his. jurisdiction at the next forest-court.
RANK, the order or place affigned a person suitable to his quality or merit.
Rank, is a straight line made by the soldiers of
a
battalion or squadron, drawn up side by side ; this or-der was established for the marches, and for regulating the different bodies of troops and officers which com-pose an army.
RANK and Precedence,
in the army and navy, are as follow :
Engineers Rank.
Chief, as colonel ; director, aa lieutenant-colonel ; fub-director, as major ; engineer
in 
ordinary, as captain; engwιeer extraordinary, as captain-lieutenant; fub-engiπeer, as lieutenant ; practitioner-engineer, as ensign.
Navy Rank.
Admiral, or commander in chief of his najesty’s fleet, has the rank of a field-marshal ; admirals, with their flags on the main-top-mast head, rank with generals of hoisse and foot ; vice-admirals, with lieutenant-generals ; rear-admirals, as major-generals j commodores, with broad pendant3, as brigadier-gene-rals; captains of post-ships, after three years from the date ot their sirst commission, as colonels ; υtiιer captains, as commanding post-ships, as lieutenant-colonels 5. captains, not taking post, as majors ∙, lieutenants, as captains.
Doubting os the RANKS,
is the placing two ranks in one, frequently used in the manœuvres of a regiment.
Ranks and Files,
are the horizontal and vertical lines of soldiers when drawn up for service.
RANSOM, a sum of money paid for the redemption of a slave, or the liberty of a prisoner of war. In our law-books, ransom is also used for a fum paid for the pardon of some great offence, and to obtain the offender’s liberty.
RANULA, a tumor under a child’s tongue, which, like a ligature, hinders it from speaking or fucking.
RANUNCULUS, crowfoot : A genus of the polygamia order, belonging to the polyandria clafs of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under the 26th order,
Mult'ιfitiquα.
The calyx is pentaphyllous ; there are five petals, each with a melliferous pore on the inside of the heel ; the feeds naked.
Species.
There arc near 40 different species of this genus, six or eight of which claim general esteem as flowery plants for ornamenting the gardens, and a great number are common weeds in the fields, waters, and pasture ground, not having merit for garden culture. Οί the garden kinds, the principal fort is the Asiatic or Turkey and Persian ranunculus, which com-prifes many hundred varieties of large, double, most beautiful flowers of various colours : but feveral other species having varieties with fine double flowers, make a good appearance in a collection, though as those of each species consist only of one colour, some white, others yellow, they are inferior to the Asiatic ranun-culus, which is large, and diversified a thousand ways in rich colours, in different varieties. However, all the garden kinds in general effect a very agreeable diversity in affemblage in the flower compartments, &c. and they being all very hardy, succeed in any open beds and bor-ders, &c.
Culture.
The Asiatic species in all its varieties will succeed in any light, rich, garden earth ; but the flo-rists often prepare a particular compost for the fine varieties, consisting of good garden-mould or pasture-earth, fward and all, a fourth part of rotted cow-dung,
' and the like portion of sea-sand ; and with this they
prepare beds four feet wide and two deep : however, in default of fuch compost, ufe beds of any good light earth of your garden ; or, if neceffary, it may be made light and ιich with a portion of drift-sand and rotten dung, cow-dung is most commonly recommended ; but they will also thrive in beds of well-wrought kitchen-garden earth, and they often profper well in the com-mon flower-borders.
The seafon for planting the roots is both in autumn and spring ; the autumn plantings generally flower strongest and soonest by a month at least, and are succeeded by the spring-planting in May and June. Per-form the autumnal planting in october and early part of November, but fome plant towards the Iatter end of September in order to have a very early bloom ; but those planted in that month and beginning of Gctober often come up with rank leaves soon after, in winter, so as to require protection in hard frosts ; those, hς>wever, planted about the middle or latter end of october, and beginning of November, rarely shoot up strong till towards spring, and will not require so much care of cover-ing during winter ; and the spring-planting may be per-formed the end of January or beginning of February, or as soon as the weather is settled ; they will not require any trouble of covering, and will succeed the autumnal plants regularly in bloom, and will flower in good perfection. Thus by two or three different plant-ings you may obtain a fuccession of thefe beautiful flowers in constant bloom from April till the middle of June ; but the autumnal plants, for the general part, not only flower strongest, but the roots increase more in size, and furnish the best off-fets for propagation : it is, however, proper to plant both in spring and au-tumn.
Prepare for the choicer sorts four-feet beds of light earth, and rake the surface smooth; then plant the roots in rows lengthwise the beds, either by drilling them in two inches deep, and six inches distance in the row, and the rows six or eight afunder ; or you may ph nt them by bedding-in, or by dibble planting, the same depth and distance.
Those designed for the borders fiιould be planted ge-
nerally towards the fpring, in little clumps or patches, three, four, or five roots in each, putting them in either with a dibble or trowel, two or three inches deep, and three or four asunder in each patch, and the patches from about three to five or ten feet distance, placing them rather forward in the border.
Propagation.
All the varieties of the Asiatic ranunculus propagate abundantly by off-sets from the root, and new varieties are gained by seed.—
I.
By off-sets. The time for separating the off-sets is in summer when the flower is past, and the leaves and stalks are withered : then taking up all the ro'ots in dry weather, feparate the off-sets from each main root, and alter drying the whole gradually in some shady airy room, put them up in bags till the autumn and spring seasons of planting ; then plant them as before, placing all the off-sets in separate beds : many of them will blow the first year, but in the second they will all flower in good perfection.—2. By seed. Save a quantity of seed from the finest semi-double flowers, and sow it either in August, or in March, or April, though, to save trouble -of winter-covering, some prefer the spring : it should be lowed in light rich mould, either in pots or in an east border, drawing very shallow flat drills five or fix inches asunder, in which sow the feeds thinly, and cover them lightly with earth, giving frequent refreshments of water in dry weather, and in a month or six weeks the plants will rife with fmall leaves ; observing to continue the light waterings in dry weather, to preserve the foil xnoist during their fummer’s growth to increase the size of the roots ; and in June when the leaves decay, take up the roots and preserve them till the ieason for planting, then plant them in common beds, as before directed, and they will flower the spring following, when all the doubles of good properties should be marked, and the Angles thrown away.
The juice of many species of ranunculus is so acrid as to raise blisters on the skin, and yet the roots may be eaten with safety when boiled.
RAPACIOUS
animals,
are such as live upon
prey.
RAPE, in law, the carnal knowledge of a woman forcibly and against her will. This, by the Jewish law, was pu ni shed with death, in case the damsel was betrothed to another man : and, in cafe she was not betrothed, then a heavy fine of fifty shekels was to be paid to the damsel’s father, and she was to be the wife of the ravisher all the days of his life ; without that power of divorce, which was in general permitted by the Mosaic law.
The civil law punishes the crime of ravishment with death and confifcation of goods: under which it includes both the offence of forcible abduction, or taking away a woman from her friends ; and also the present offence of forcibly dishonouring her ; either of which, without the other, is in that law sufficient to constitute a capital crime. Also the stealing away a woman from her parents or guardians, and debauching her, is equasly penal by the emperor’s edict, whether she consent or is forced. And this, in order to take away from women every opportunity of offending in this way; whom the Ro-man laws suppose never to go astray without the seduction and arts of the other sex ; and therefore, by restraining and making so highly penal the solicitations of the
men,
they meant to fecure effectually the honour
of the women. But our English law does not enter* tain quite such sublime ideas of the honour of either sex, as to lay the blame of a mutual fault upon one of the tranfgreffors only ; and therefore makes it a necesk fary ingredient in the crime of rape, that it must be against the woman’s wisl.
Rape was punished by the Saxon laws, particularly those of king Athelstan, with death ; which was also agreeable to the old Gothic or Scandinavian constitution. But this was afterwards thought too hard : and in its stead another severe, but not capital, punishment was inflicted by william the Conqueror, viz. castration and loss os eyes ; which continued till after Bracton wrote, in the reign of Henry III. But in order to prevent malicious accusations, it was then the law, (and, it seems, still continues to be so in appeals of rape), that the woman should, immediately after, go to the next town, and there make discovery to some credible persons of the injury she has suffered ; and afterwards should acquaint the high constable of the hundred, the coroners, and the sheriff, with the outrage. This seems to correfpond in some degree with the laws of Scotland and Arragon, which require that complaint must be made within 24 hours : though afterwards by statute w’estm.
I.
c. 13. the time of limitation in England was extended to 40 days. At present there is no ∙ time of limitation fixed: for, as it is usuasly now punished by indictment at the fuit of the king, the maxim of law takes place, that " nullum tempus occurrit regi but the jury will rarely give credit to a stale complaint. During the former period also it was held for law, that the woman (by consent of the judge and her parents) might redeem the offender from the execution of his sentence, by accepting him for her hushand ; if he also ■ wa⅛ willing to agree to the exchange* but not otherwise.
In the 3 Edw. I. by the ftatuté westsh.
r. c. 13.
the punishment of rape was much mitigated : the of--fence itself, of ravishing a damsel within age, (that is, twelve years old) either with her consent or without, or of any other woman against her will, being reduced to a trefpass,· if not prosccuted by appeal within 40 days, and subjecting the offender onIy to two years imprison-ment, and a fine-at the king’s will.· But this lenity being productive of the most terrible consequences, it was, in ten years afterwards, 13 Edw. I. found ncceffa-ιy to make the offence of forcible rape felony by statute w^eftm. 2. c. 34. And by statute 18 Eliz. c. 7. it is made felony without benefit of clergy : as is also the abominable wickedness of carnasly knowing or abusing any woman-child under the age of ten years ; in which case the consent or non-confent is immaterial, as by reason of her tender years she is incapable of judgment and discretion. Sir Matthew Hale is indeed of opinion, that such profligate actions committed on an infant under the age of twelve years, the age oi female discretion by the common law, either with or without consent, amount to rape and felony·; as well sincc as before the statute of queen Elizabeth : but that law has in general been held only to extend to infants under ten ; though it fnould seem that damsels between ten and twelve are stiil under the protection of the statute wctlm. 1. the lav/ with respect to their seduction not having been al-tered by either of the subfequent statutes.
A
male infant, under the age. of fourteen years, is
presumed by law incapable to commit a rape, and therefore it seems cannot be found guilty of it. For though in other felonies " malitia supplet ætatem yet, as to this particular fpecies of felony, the law sup-poses an imbecillity of body as well as mind.
The civil law seems to suppose a prostitute or common harlot incapable of any injuries of this kind: not allowing any punishment for violating the chastity of her, who hath indeed no chastity at all, or at least hath no regard to it. But the law of England does not judge so hardly of offenders, as to cut off all op-portunity of retreat even from common strumpets, and to treat them as never capable of amendment. It therefore holds it to be felony to force even a concubine or harlot ; because the woman may have forsaken that unlawful course of life : for, as Bracton well observes, " licet merctriχ fuerit antea, certe tunc temporis non fuit, cum reclaιnando nequitiæ ejus con-sentire noluit.”
As to the material facts requisite to be given in evi-dencε and proved upon an indictment of rape, they are of such a nature, that, though necessary to be known and settled, for the conviction of the guiky and preservation of the innocent, and therefore are to be found in such criminal treatises as discourse of these matters in detail, yet they are highly improper to be publicly dif-cussed, except only in a court of justice. we shall therefore merely add upon this head a few remarks from Sir Matthew Hale, with regard to the competen-ey and credibility of witneffes ; which may,
salvo pudore, 
be considered.
And, first, the party ravished may give evidence upon oath, aud is in law a competent witness ; but the credi-bility of her testimony, and how far forth she is to be believed, must be left to the jury upon the circumstances of fact that concur in that testimony. For instance : if the witness be of good fame; if she presently discovered the offence, and made search for the offender; if the party accused fled for it ; thele and the like are concurring circumstances, which give greater probability to her evidence. But, on the other side, if she be of evil fame, and stand unsupported by others ; if she con-cealed£the injury for any considerable time after she had opportunity to complain ; if the place, where the fact was alleged to be committed, was where it was possible she might have been heard, and she made no outcry : these and the like circumstances carry a strong, but not conclusive, presumption that her testimony is false or feigned.
Moreover, if the rape be charged to be committed on an infant under 12 years of age, she may still be a competent witness, if she hath senfe and understanding to know the nature and obligations of an oath ; and, even if she hath not, it is thought by Sir Matthew Hale, that she ought to bc heard without oath, to give the court information ; though that alone will not be sufficient to convict the offender. And he is of this opinion, sirst, Because the nature of the offence being secret, there may be no other possiblc proof of the actual fact ; though afterwards there may be con-current circumstances to corroborate it, proved by other witneffes : and, fccondly, Because the law allows what the child told her mother, or other relations, to be given in evidence, since thc nature of the cafe admits frequently of
no better proof ; and
there 
is much more reafon for the court to hear the narration of the child herfelf, than to receive it at second-hand from those who swear they heard her fay so. And indeed it feems now to be fettled, that in thesij cases infants of any age are to be heard ; and, if they have any idea of an oath, to be also fworn ; it being found by experience, that infants of very tender years often give the clearest and truest testimony. But in any of these cases, whether the child be fworn or not, it is to be wished, in order to render her evidence credible, that there should be some concurrent testimony of time, place, and circumstances, in order to make out the fact ; and that the conviction should not be grounded singly on the unfupported accusation of
an 
infant under years of discretion. There may be therefore, in many cases of this nature, witneffes who are competent, that is, who may be admitted to be heard ; and yet, after being heard, may prove not to be credible, or such as the jury is bound to believe. For one excellence of the trial by jury is, that the jury are triers of the credit of the witneffes, as well as of thc truth of the fact.
" It is true (fays this learned judge), that rape is a most detestable crime, and therefore ought severely and impartially to be punished with death ; but it must be remembered, that it is an accusation easy to be made, hard to be proved, but harder to be defended by the party accufed, though innocent.” He then relates two very extraordinary cafes of malicious prosecution for this crime, that had happened within his own ob- -servation ; and concludes thus : " I mention thefe instances, that we may be the more cautious upon trials of offences of this nature, wherein the court and jury may with so much eafe be imposed upon, without great care and vigilance ; the heinoufness of the offence many times transporting the judge and jury with fo much indignation, that they are over-hastily carried to the conviction of the persons accnsed thereof, by the confident testimony of sometimes false and malicious witneffes.”
RAPHAEL (D’Urbino), the greatest, most sublime, and most excellent painter that has appeared, since the revival of the fine arts, was the son of an indifferent painter named
Sαnzio,
and was born at Urbi-no on Good Friday 1482. The popes Julius II. and Leo X. who employed him, loaded him with wealth and honour ; and it is said that cardinal De St Bibiana had such a value for him, that he offered him his niece in marriage. His genius is admired in all his pictures ; his contours are free, his ordonnances magnificent, his designs correct, his figures elegant, his expreffiυns lively, his attitudes natural, his heads graceful ; in fine, every thing is beautiful, grand, sublime, just, and adorn-ed with graces. These various perfections he derived, not only from his excellent abilities, but from his study of antiquity and anatomy ; and from the friendship he contracted with Ariosto, who contributed not a little to the improvement of his taste. His pictures are principally to be found in Italy and Paris. That of the Transfiguration, preserved at Rome in the church of St Peter Monterio, passes for his mailer-piece.' He had a handsome person, was well proportioned, and had great sweetness of temper ; was polite,
affable, and mo-
deft. He, however, lived in the utmost splendor'; most of the eminent masters of his time were ambitious of working under him 5 and he never went out without a crowd of artists and others, who followed him purely through respect. He was not only the best painter in the world, but perhaps the best architect too ; on which account Leo X. charged him with building St Peter’s church at Rome : but he was too much addicted to pleasure, which occasioned his death at 37 years ■of age. He left a great number of difciples ; among •whom were Julio Romano and John Francis Pennιζ who were his heirs. Many able engravers, as Raimondi, George Mantuan, and BIoemart, engι aved after Ra-phael. See Painting, p. 595 and 598.
RAPHAIM, or Rephaim, (Moses), a name figni-fyιng
Giants, 23
they really were, and an actual people too, fituated in Basan or Batanea. beyond Jordan, se-ρarated from the Zanzummim by the river Jabbok. Also a valley near Jerusalem ; Joshua x.
RAPHANUS, radish ; a genus of the siliquosa order, belonging to the tetradynamia class of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under the 39th order,
Siliquofie.
The calyx is close ; the siliqua torose, or swelling out in knots, subarticulated, and round. There are two melliferous glandules between the shorter stamina and the pistil, and two between the longer stamina and the calyx.
There is only one species, viz. the sativus, or common garden radish ; of which there are several varieties. They are annual plants, which being sowed in the spring, attain perfection in two or three months, and shoot up scon after into stalk for flower and seed, which, ripening in autumn, the whole plant, root and top, perishes ; so that a fresh supply must be raised annually from feed in the spring, performing the fowin<rs at several different times, from about Christmas until May, in order to continue a regular fuccession of young tender radishes throughout the seafon : allowing only a fortnight or three weeks interval between the sow-msss > stw θne crop will not continue good longer than that space of time, before they will either run to feed, or become tough, sticky, and too hot to eat.
RAPHANIDOSIS, a punishment inflicted at A-thens upon adulterers. The manner of it was this ; The hair was plucked off from the privities of the offender, hot ashes laid upon the place, and a radish or mullet thrust up his fundament, as has been mentioned under Adultery. To this Juvenal alludes,
Sat.
x. ver. 317.
Ssuofdam rnœchos et rnugiUs indr at.
Persons who had been thus punished were callcd fj*∙p<χ⅛<, r qqιe
wor j 
raphanidofis
is derived from p
<×-φa,κi
a radish.
RAPHIDIA, in zoology ∙ a genus of infects, of the neuroptera order ; the character s of which are these; The head is of a horny substance, and depressed or flattened : the mouth is armed with two teeth, and furnished with four palpi : the stemmata are three in number : the wings are deflected : the antennæ are filiform, as long as the thorax ; the anterior part of which is lengthened out, and of a cylindrical form : the tail of the female is terminated by an appendix, resembling a flexible crooked bristle.—There are three species. The most remarkable is the ophiopsis ; which for its shape is one of the most singular that can be seen f. It has an oblong Lead, shaped like
a
heart,
with its point joined to the thorax, and the broad part before. It is smooth, black, flattened, continually shakmg, with short antennæ, yellowish maxilîæ, and tour palpi. Towards the middle of the upper part of the head, between the eyes, are the three stemmata, placed in a triangle. The thor⅛x, to which this head is rahened, is narrow, long, and cylindrical. The ab-domen, broader, is black like the rest of the body, with the scgments margined yellow. The feet are of a yellowish cast. The wings, which are fastigiated, are white, diaphanous, veined, and as it were covered with a very fine net-work of black. This insect, in the figure of its head, resembles a snake. It is found but seldom, and in woods only. Its larva, chrysalis, and habitation, are absolutely unknown.
RAPIER, formerly signified a long old-fashioned sword, such as those worn by the common soldiers : but it now denotes a smalTsword, as contradistinguished from a back-sword.
RAI IN (Rene), a Jesust and eminent French writer, w as born at Tours m 1621. He taught polite ιterature in the society os the Jesusts with ' great ap-plauie, and was justly esteemed one of the best Latin poets and greatest wits of his time. He dicd at Pa-∏s in
1687. He
wrote, 1. A great number of Latin Pθems, which have rendered him famous throughout all Europe ; among which are his
Hortorum libri 9fiatuor,
which is reckoned his master-piece.
2.
Reflections on Eloquence, Poetry, History, and Philo-τ√ y ∖, 3- c °m Parι ∕°ns between virgil and Homer, Demosthenes and Cicero, Plato and Aristotle, Thucydides and Titus Livius. 4. The History of Janse-
Γl α
J'∙
several .w °rks . θn re ⅛ious subjects. The best edition of his Latin poems is that of Paris in 1 72 3> ιn 3 vols 12mo.
Rapin
⅛ Thoyras
(Paul de), a celebrated historian, was the fon of James de Rapin lord of Thoyras, and was born at Castres in 1661. He was educated at fiist under a tutor in his father’s house ; and afterwards lent to Puylaurens, and thence to Saumur. In 1607
⅛Λetu ,r i! Λt 4 h ⅛ f ⅞he i, with a dei ⅛n to a ppj y hιm -ltli to the study of the law, and was admitted an advocate : but some time after, reflecting that fiis being, a 1 rotestant would prevent his advancement at the bar, he resolved to quit the profeffion of the law, and apply himself to that of the sword ; but his father w°m<l not consent to st. The revocation of the edict of Nantes in 1685, and the death of his father, which happened two months after, made him resolve to come to England ; but as he had no hopes of any fettlement here, his stay was but short. He therefore soon after went to Holland, and lifted himself in the company of French volunteers at Utrecht, commanded by M. Kapιn his cousin-german. He attended the Prince of orange into England in 1688 : and the following year the Lord Kingston made him an ensign in his regiment with which he went into Inland, where he gained the esteem of his officers at the siege of Carrickfergus, and had soon a lieutenant’s commission. He was pre. fent at the battle of the Boyne, and was shot thro’the shoulder at the siege of Limerick. He was soon after captain of the company in which he had been ensign ∙ but, in 1693, resigned his company to one of his brothers,
in
order to be tutor to the earl of Portland’,
o’clock in the afternoon, the thermometer stood at τ 14®
in the shade, and in the evening at 820 ; though at sunrise it had been no higher than 61. Notwithstand-ing this appearance of extreme heat, however, the sen-sation was by no means intolerable ; they could hunt at mid-day, and felt the evenings rather cold. The sod is a fat, loose, black earth, which our author says is the same from 13° to 1 6° of north latitude-; at least till we come to the deserts of Atbara, where the tropical rains cease. This conntry divides that of the Shan-galla into two parts, nearly equal. These people in-habit a belt of land about 60 miles broad, all along the northern frontier of Abyssinia, excepting two large gaps or spaces which have been left open for the sake of commerce, and which are inhabited by strangers, to-keep the Shangalla in awe. The latter trade in gold, which they pick up in the streams as it is washed down from the mountains ; for there are no mines in their country, neither is there any gold in Abyssinia, excepting wliat is imported from this or some other country’. The Shangalla are the natural enemies of the inhabitants of Ras-el-Feel, and much blood has been shed in the various incursions they have made upon one ano-ther ; thougsh of late those of Ras-el-Feel, by the assist-ance of the emperors, have been enabled to keep the Shangalla at bay.
RAS-Sem, a city of Tripoli in Barbary, concerning which a number of fables were told by the Tripoline ambassador, all of which were believed in England and other parts of Europe in the beginning of this century. (See
PKTRinED-City).
Mr Bruce informs us, that it is situated about five days journey south from Bengazi;-but has no water excepting one fountain, which has a disagreeable taste, and seems to be impregnated with -alum. Hence it has obtained the name of
Ras-Sem, 
or the fountain of poison. The only remains of antiquity in this place consist of the ruins of a tower or fortification, which, in the opinion of Mr Bruce, is as late as the time of the vandals ; but he says he cannot imagine what ufe they made of the water, and they had no other within two days journey of the place.— Here our traveller saw many of the animals called 
jerboa,
a kind of mice ; which, he fays, seem to partake as much of the nature os a bπd as of a qua-druped.
RASAY, one of the Hebrides Islands, is about 1
3
miles long and 2 broad. It contains y00 inhabitants, has plenty of lime-stone, free-stone ∙, and feeds great numbers of black cattle ; but has neither deers, hares, nor rabbits. The only appearance of a harbour in Rafay is at Clachan Bay, where Mr Macleod the proprietor of the island resides. Rasay presents a bold shore, w, hιch rises to the height of mountains ; and here the natives have, with incredible labour, formed many little corn fields and patato grounds. These heights decrease at the south end, where there are some farms and a good-looking country. Mr Macleod is sole proprietor of this» island, and of Rona and Fladda at the north end of 1tft  which are only proper for grazing.
The house of Rasay is pleasantly situated near the south-west end of the island, which is the most level part of it. It has an extensive and excellent garden, and is surrounded with forest trees of considerable magnitude ; another proof that trees will grow upon the edge
os
the sea-, though it
must be allowed
that the
son. In 1699, he married Marianne Testard ∙, but this marriage neither abated his care of his pupil, nor prevented his accompanying him in his travels. . Having sinished this employment, lie returned to his farm y, which he had settled at the Hague ; and here he continued some years. But as he found his family increafe, he resolved to retire to some cheap country ; and accordingly removed, in 1 707, to wesel, where he wrote his History of England, and lome other pieces. Thouoh he was of a strong constitution, yet seventeen years application (for so long was he in compofing the history just mentioned) entirely ruined his health. He died in 1725. He wrote in French, 1. A Differtation on the AVhigs and Tories. 2. His History of England, printed at the Hague in 1726 and 1727, in 9 vols 4to, and reprinted·at Trevoux m 1728, in 10 vols 4 to. This last edition is more complete than that ot the Hague. It has been translated into Enghsh, and improved with Notes, by the Reverend Mr Tshdal, in 2 vols folio. This performance, though the work of a foreigner, is defervedly esteemed as the. fullest and most impartial collection of Enghsh political transactions extant. The readers of wit and vivacity, however, may be apt to complain of him for being fometimeβ rather tedious and dull.
RAPINE, in law, the taking away another s goods
&c. by violence.    ∙    , j    1
RAPPERSWIL, a town of Swisserland, on tlie
confines of the canton of Zurich, and of the territory of Gaster, with an old castle. It is strong by situa-tion, being seated on a neck of land which advances into the lake of Zurich, and over which there is a bridge 8ς0 paces long. It is subject to the cantons ot Zurich and Berne. È Long. 8. 57 . N∙ Lat 47∙ ∞-RAPPOLSTEIN, a town of France in Upper
Al
sace, which, before the Revolution, had the title of a barony. All the musicians of Alsace likewise depended upon this baron, and were obliged to pay him a certain tribute, without which they could not play upon their instruments. E. Long. 7 . 28. N. Lat. 48. 15.
RAPTURE, an ecstasy or transport of mmd. bee
P?
χ
TA S Y ∙
RARE, in phyfic, stands opposed to dense ; and denotes a body that is very porous, whose parts are at a great distance srom one another, and which is lup-posed to contain but little matter under a large bulk. See the following article.
RAREFACTION, in physics, the act whereby a body is rendered rare ; that is, brought to possess more room, or appear under a larger bulk, without accel-fion of any new matter.-This is very frequently the effect of fire, as has long been umversally allowed. In many cases, however, philosophers have attributed it to the action of a repulsive principle. However, irom the many discoveries concerning the nature and pιo-perties of the electric fluid and fire, there is the greatest reason to believe, that this repulsive principle is no other than elementary fire. See Repulsion.
RAS-el-Feel, one of the frontier provinces ot A-¼ffinia, of which the late celebrated traveller Mr Bruce was made governor while in that country.
It
is but of small extent, and in its most prosperous state contained only 39 villages. The climate is extremely hot, in Mr Bruce’s opinion one of the hottest in the world. 
He informs us, that on the first day of March, at three
channel here is narrow. Immediately behind the house of Rafay are the ruins of an ancient chapel, now used as the family burying-place.
_ Dr Johnson, in his
'1
'our, expresses the highest fatisfaction at the reception he met with when in Rasay from Mr Macleod.
RASCIANS, a poor oppreffed people who dwelt - on both sides oi the Danube, and who, about the year 
1 594->
being weary of the Turkish thraldom, first took 13 of their vessels upon that river ; and then drawing together a body of fifteen thousand men between Buda and Belgrade, twice defeated the pasha of Temeswar with a body of fourteen thousand Turks. They afterwards took Baczkerek, four miles from Belgrade, and the castle of ottadt ; then laying siege to that of Beche, on the Theyssa, the old pasha of Temeswar marched to relieve it with eleven tbousand men ; but the Rafcians encountering tlιem, slew near ten thousand, and took 18 pieces of canon. The consequence of this victory was the reduction of wersetza and Lutz. Then, fending to the archduke for aid and gunners, they offered to put themselves and their country under the emperor’s protection.
RASOR-BILL.
SeeAtcA, n°4∙
RΛsoK-Fifh.
See Solen.
RASTALL (John), a printer and mifcellaneous writer, was born in London, probably about the end of the 15tl1 century, and educated at oxford. Returning from the university, he fettled in the metropolis, and commenced printer, “ then esteemed (says wood) a profession fit tor any fcholar or ingenious man.” He married the filter of Sir Thomas More, with whom, we are told, he was very intimate, and whofe writings he strenuously defended. From the title-page of one of his books, he appears to have lived in Cheapside, at the sign of the mermaid. He died in the year 1536 ; aud lest two sons, william and John : the sirst of whom became a judge in queen Mary’s reign, and the latter a juskce of peace. This John Rastall, the fubject of the present article, was a zealous Papist ; but Bale says, that he changed his religion before his death. He wrote, i.
Ratura naturata.
Pits calls it a copious 
(prolixa)
and ingenious comedy, describing Europe, A-lιa, and Africa j with cuts. ΛVhat fort ot a comedy this was, is not easy to conceive. Probably it is a cos-mographical description, written in dialogue, and therefore styled a
comedy.
2. The pastyme os the people ; the cronycles of diverse realmys, and most efpecially of ⅛he realm of England, brevely compiled and emprinted in Csheapesyde, at the sign of the mearmaid, next Pυl-lysgate,
cum privιIe gi0 ,
fol. 3.
Ecclefia Johanη is Ra f. iatl,
1542. ∖Vas one of the prohibited books in the reign of Henry VIII. 4.
Lsgum Anglicanarum vοca∙ Fula explicate;.
French and Latin. Lond. 1567, 8vo. And fome other works.
RASTADT, a town of Germany, in the circle of Suabia and marquifate of Baden, with a handfome castle.
It is remarkable for a treaty concluded here between the French and lmperialists in 1714; and is seated on the river Merg, near the Rhine. E. Long. o. 14. N. Lat. 48. 52.
RASTENBURG, a fine city in Prussia, on the Gu-her, surrounded with a wall, and fince 1629 also with a rampart.
RAT, in zoology. See Mus.
The following receipt is said to have been found ef-• fectual for the destruction of rats. Take of the feeds of stavefacre or loufewort, powdered, more or less as the occasion requires, one part ; of oat-meal, three parts ; mix them well, and make them up into a paste with honey. Lay pieces of st in the holes, and on the places where mice and rats frequent ; and it will effectually kill or rid the place of those kind of vermin by their eating thereof.
Some time ago, the society for encouraging arts pro-pofed a premium of 50l. for a preparation capable of alluring or fascinating rats so that they might be taken ahve. In consequence of this, a great number of new’ traps, &c. were invented ; and the following methods of alluring the rats to a certain place were published.
Θne of those most easily and efficaciously practised is the trailing some pieces of their most favourite food, which should be of the kind that has the strongest scent, such as toasted cheese or broiled red herrings, from thc holes or entrances of the closet to their recesses in every part of the house or contiguous building. At the extremities and in different parts of the courfe of this trailed track, small quantities os meal, or any other kind, of their food, should be laid, to bring the greater number into the tracks, and to encourage them to pursue it to the place where they are intended to be taken : at that place, when time admits os it, a more plentiful repail is laid for them, and the trailing repeated for two or three nights.
Besides this trailing and way-baiting, fome of the most expert of the rat-catchers have a shorter and per-haps more effectual method of bringing them together; which is the calling them, by making such a whiffling node as resembles their own call ; and by this means, with the assistance of the way-baits, they call them out of their holes, and lead them to the repast prepared for them at the place designed for taking them. But this is much more difficult to be practised than the art of trailing ; for the learning the exact notes or cries of any kind os beasts or birds, fo as to deceive them, is a peculiar talent which is seldom attained : though fome perfons have been known who could call tog-ether a great number of cats ; and there was a man in London who.could bring nightingales, when they were within hearing, about him, and even allure them to perch on his hand, lo as to be taken.
In practising either of those methods, of trailing or calling, great caution must be uled by the operator to supprefs and prevent the fcent of his feet and body from being perceived ; which is done by overpowering that scent by others of a stronger nature. In order to this, the feet are to be covered with cloths rubbed over with afafiaetida, or other strong-smelling fubstances ; and even oil of rhodium is fometimes used for this purpose, but sparingly, on account
of
fits dearness, .though it has a very alluring as well as disguiling effect. If this caution of avoiding the scent of the operator’s feet, near the tιack, and in the place where the rats are proposed to be collected, be not properly observed, it will very much obstruct the success of the attempt to take them ; for they are very shy of coming where the scent of human feet lies very fresh, as it intimates to their sagaci-υus instinct the presence of human creatures, whom they
naturally dread. To the above-mentioned means os aI-luring by trailing, way-baiting, and calling, is added another of a very material efficacy, which is, the use of oil of rhodium, which, like the marum Syriacum in thc case of cats, has a very extraordinary fascinating power on these animals. This oil is extremely dear, and therefore sparingly used. It is exalted in a small quantity in the place, and at the entrance of it, where the rats are intended to be taken ; particularly at the time when tlicy are to be last brought together, in order to their destruction ; and it is used alfi> by fτnearing it on the surface of some of the implements used in taking by the method below described ; and the effect it has in taking off their caution and dread, by the delight they appear 
to
have in it, is very extraordinary.
It is usual, likewife, for tlie operator to disguise his figure as well as scent, which is done by putting on a fort of gown or cloak, of one colour, that hides the natural form, and makes him appear like a post or fome such inanimate thing ; which habit must likewise be scented as above, to overpower the smell of his person and besides this, he is to avoid all motion till he has se-cured his point of having all the rats in his power.
when the rats are thus enticed and collected, where time is afforded, and the whole in any house and outbuildings are intended to be cleared away, they are suffered to regale on what they most like, which is ready prepared for them, and then to go away quietly for two or three nights ; by which means those that are not allured the first night are brought afterwards, either by their fellows, or the effects of the trailing, &c. and will not fail to come duly again, if they are not disturbed or molested. But many of the rat-catchers make short -er work, and content themselves with what can be brought together in one night or two ; but this is never effectual, unless· where the building is small and en-tire, and the rats but few in number..
The means of taking them, when they are brought together, are various. Some entice them into a very large bag, the mouth of which- is sufficiently capacious to cover nearly the whole floor of the place where they are collected ; which is done by fmearing fome veffel, placed in the middle of the bag, with oil of rhodium, and laying in the bag baits of food. This bag, which before lay stat on the ground with the mouth spread open, is to be fuddenly closed when, the rats are all in.. Others drive or fright them, by stight noises or motions, into a bag of a long form, the mouth of which, after all the rats, are come in, is drawn up to the opening of the place by whieh they entered, all other ways of retreat being seeured. others, again, intoxicate or poison them, by mixing with the repast prepared for them the cocu-Ius Indicus, or the nux vomica. They direct four oun-ces of the coculus Indieus, with twelve ounces of oatmeal, and two ounces of treacle or honey, made into a moist paste with strong-beer : but if the nux vomica be used, a much less proportion will serve than, is here given of the coculus. Any similar composition of these drugs, with that kind of food the rats are most fond of, and which has a strong flavour, to hide that of tlie drugs, will equally well answer the end. If indeed the coculus Indicus be well p⅛wdered, and infused in strong-beer for some time, at least half the quantity here directed will serve as well as the quantity before-men-
tioned. when the rats appear to be
thoroughly
in
toxicated with the coculus, or sick with the nux vomica, they may be taken with the hand, and put into a bag or cage, the door of the place being first drawn to, lest those who have strength and sense remaining escape.
RAT-Island,
a small detached part of the island of Lundy, off the north coast of Devon. ’ Though noted in Donn’s map of the county, it is not worth mention here, but as giving opportunity to subjoin a farther notice of Lundy, which island was purchased a few years since by Mr Cleveland Μ.
P.
for about 1200 guineas# who has a small villa on it : not more than 400 acres are cultivated : it is let altogether for 70h a-year. The foil is good, though no trees will grow on the island.' It has fine springs of water : the houses are seven : the inhabitants, men, women, and children, do not exceed 24. The bird called
murr,
whose eggs are very large-and fine, the Lundy parrot, and rabbits, are the chief produce ; these abound, and are taken for the feathers,-eggs, and skins, principally. They have now (1794) 70 bullocks and 400 sheep, but the latter do not thrive.' They pay no taxes : fishing skiffs often call with necessaries : the situation is very pleasant, and the rocks: around, which are large, and partly granite, are wild,, romantic, and novel. It had probably more inhabitants once, as human bones have been ploughed up. It has no place of worship, nor public-house; but strangers are always welcome. Eight cannon lie on the battlements on the top of a very steep precipice, under which· is a curious cavern. Lord Gower, Mr Benfon, and Sir J. B. warren,
K.
B. have been former proprietors. See> 
Lundy.
RAT-Tαifs,
or
Arrefis.
See
Farriery,
§ xxxvii.
RATAFIA, a fine fpirituous liquor, prepared from, the kernels, &c. of several kinds of fruits, particularly of cherries and apricots.
Ratafia of cherries is prepared by bruising the cher-ries, and putting them into a vessel wherein brandy has been long kept ; then adding to them the kernels of cherries, with strawberries, sugar, cinnamon, white j .1 )∙ per, nutmeg, cloves; and to 20 pound of cherries 10 quarts of brandy. The vessel is left open ten or twelve days, and then stopped close for two months before it be tapped. Ratafia of apricots is prepared two ways, viz. either by boiling the apricots in white-wine, adding to the liquor an equal quantity of brandy, with fugar, cinnamon, mace, and the kernels of apricots ; infusing the whole for eight or ten days ; then straining the liquor, and putting it up for use : or else by infusing the apricots, cut in pieces, in brandy, for a,day or two, passing it through a straining bag, and then putting in the usual ingredients.
RATCH, or
rash,
in clock-work, a fort of wheel having twelve fangs, which serve to lift up the detents every hour, and make the clock strike. See
Clock.
RATCHETS, in a watch, are the small teeth at the bottom of the fusy, or barrel, which stops it in winding u P∙
RATE, a standard or proportion, by which either the quantity or value of a thing is adjusted.
RATES, in the navy, the orders or classes into which. the ships of war are divided, according to their force and magnitude..
The regulation, which limits the rates of men of war to the smallest number poffible, feems to have been dic
tated by confiderations of political economy,
or
of
that
of
i the fimplicity of the service in
the
royal dock-yards. The British fleet is accordingly distributed into fix rates, exclusive of the inferior vessels that usually attend on naval armaments ; as sloops of war, armed ships, bomb-ketches, fire-ships and cutters, or schooners commanded by lieutenants.
Ships of the first rate mount roo cannon, having 42⅛ pounders on the lower deck, 24-pounders on the middle deck, 12-pounders on the upper deck, and 6-pounders on the quarter-deck and fore-eastle. They are manned with 850 men, including their officers, seamen, marines, and servants.
In general, the ships of every rate, besides the cap-tain, have the master, the boatswain, the gunner, the chaplain, the purser, the surgeon, aud the carpenter ; all of whom, except the chaplain, have their mates or assistants, in which are comprehended the sail-maker, the master at arms, the armourer, the captain’s clerk, the gunsmsth, &c.
The number os other officers are always in propor-tion to the rate of the ship. Thus a first rate has six lieutenants, six master’s mates, twenty-four midshipmen, and five surgeon’s mates, who are considered as gentlemen : besides the following petty officers ; quarter-mas-ters and their mates, fourteen ; boatswain’s mates and yeomen, eight ; gunner’s mates and affistants, six ; quar-ter-gunners, twenty-five ^ carpenter’s mates, two, besides fourteen assistants with one ileward,,and steward’s mate to the purser.
If the dimenfions of all ships of the same rate were equal, it would be the simplest and most perspicuous method to collect them into one point of view in a table: but as there is no invariable rule for the general dimen-sions. we must content ourselves with but a few re-marks on ships of each rate, fo as to give a general idea of the difference· between them.
The victory, one of the last built of our first rates, is 222 feet 6 inches in length, from the head te the stern ; the length of her keel, 151 feet 3 inches; that of her gun-deck, or lower deck, 186 feet ; her ex-treme breadth is 51 feet 10 inches; her- depth in the hold, 21 feet 6 inches ; her burden, 2162 tons; and her poop reaches 6 feet before the mizen-mast.
Ships of the second rate cany 90 guns upon three decks, of which those on the lower battery are 32-pounders ; those on the middle, 18-pounders ; on the upper deck, 12-pounders; and those on the quarterdeck, 6-pounders, which usually amount to four or fiχi  Their complement of men is .750, in which there are six lieutenants, four master’s mates, 24 midshipmen, and four surgeon’s mates, 14 quarter-masters andtheir matcs⅜ eight boatswain’s mates and yeomen, six gunner’s mates and yeomen, with 22 quarter-gunners, two carpenter’s mates,* with 10 assistants, and one steward and steward½ mate.
Ships of the third rate carry from 64 to So cannon, which are 31, 18, and 9 pounders. The 80-gun shipe however begin to grow out of repute, and to give way to those of· 74, 70, &c. which have only two whole battcries ; whereas the former have three, with 28 guns planted on each, the cannon of their upper deck being the same as those on the quarter-deck and fore-castle of the latter, which are 9-pounders. The complement in a 74 is 650, and in a 64, 500 men ; having, in peace, 
four lieutenants, but in war, five j and-when an admiral
is aboard, six. They have three master’s mates,
id
midshipmen, three furgeon’s mates, 10 quarter-masters and their mates, six boatswain’s mates and yeomen, four gunner’s mates and yeomen, with ι3 quarter-gunners, one carpenter’s mate, with eight assistants, and one stew-ard and steward’s mate under the purser.
Ships of the fourth rate mount from 60 to 50 guns,j upon two decks, and the quarter-deck. The lower tier is composed of 24-pounders, the upper tier of 12-pounders, and the cannon on the quarter-deck and forc-castle are 6-pounders. The complement of a 50 gun ship is 350 men, in which there are three lieute-nants, two master’s mates, 10 midshipmen, two surgeon’s mates, eight quarter-masters and their mates, four boatswain’s mates and yeomen, one gunner's mate and onc yeoman, with 12 quarter-gunners, one carpen-ter’s mate and six assistants, and a steward and steward’s mate.
All vessels of war, under the fourth rate, are ufual-ly comprehended under the general name of
frigates,
and never appear in the line of battle. They are divided into the 5th and 6th rates ; the former mounting from 40 to 32 guns, and the latter from 28 to 20. The largest of the fifth rate have two decks of cannon, the lower battery being of 18-pounders, and that of the upper deck of 9-pounders ; but those of 36 and 32 guns have one complete deck of guns, mounting 12-pounders, besides the quarter-deck and fore-castle, which, carry 6-pounders. Tlie complement of a ship of 44 guns is 280 men ; and that of
a
frigate of 36 guns, 240 men. The first has three, and the fecond two, lieutenants ; and both have two master’s mates, six midshipmen, two surgeon’s mates,
six
quarter-masters and their mates, two boatswain’s mates and one yeoman, one gunner’s mate and one yeoman, with 10 or 11 quarter-gunners, and one purser’s steward.
Frigates of the 6th rate carry 9-pounders, those of 28 guns having 3-pounders on their quarter-deck,-with' 200 men for their complement ; and thofe of 24, 160 men : the former has two lieutenants,- the latter, one ; and both have two master’s mates, four - midshipmen, one surgeon's mate, four quarter-masters and their mates, one boatswain’s ∙ mate and one yeoman, one gunner’s mate and one yeoman, -with
fix
or seven quarter-gunners, and one purser’s fteward⅛ -
The sloopsi of war carry from 18
to &
cannon, the largest of which have six-pounders y and the smallest, . viz. thole of 8 or 10 guns, four-pounders. Their offi cers are generally the fame as in the 6th rates, with little variation ; and their-complements of men are from 120 to 60, in proportion' to their force or magnitude. 
N. B.
Bomb-vessels are on the same establishment as sloops ; but sire-ships and .'hospital-ships -are on that of fifth rates. '    ,
Nothing more evidently manifests the great improvement of the marine art, and the degree of perfection to which it has arrived in Britain, than the facility of managing our first rates ; which were formerly esteemed incapable of government, un'ess in the most favourable weather of the
summer.
Ships of the second rate, and those of the third, whieh have three deeks⅛ carry their fails remarkably well, and labour very little at fea. They are excellent in a general action, or in cannonading a fortress. Those of the third rate, which have two tiers, are fit for the i
line of battle, to lead the convoys and squadrons of ships of war in action, and in general to fuit the different ex-igencies of the naval service.
The fourth-rates may be employed on the fame occasions as the third-rates, and may be alfo destined a-mongst the foreign colonies, or on expeditions of great distance; since these vessels are usually excellent for keeping and sustaining the sea.
vessels of the fifth rate are too weak to suffer the •shock of a line of battle ; but they may be destined to lead the convoys of merchant ships, to protect the commerce in the colonies, to cruize in different stations, to accompany squadrons, or be sent express with necessary intelligence and.orders. The same may be observed of the sixth rates.
The frigates, which mount from 28 to 38
guns
upon one deck, with the quarter-deck, are extremely proper for cruizing against privateers, or for short expeditions, being "light, long, and usually excellent sailors.
RATEE.N, or Ratten, in commerce, a thick woollen stuff, quilled, woven on a loom with four treddles, like serges and other stuifs that have the whale or quilling. There are some rateens dressed and prepared like cloths.; others left simply in the hair, and others where the hair or knap is srized. Rateens aie chiefly manufactured in France, Holland, and Italy, and are mostly used in linings. The frize is a fort of coarfe 1 ateen, and the drugget is a rateen half linen half woollen.
RATIFICATION, an act approving of and confirming something done by another iu our name.
RÂTIO, in arithmetic and geometry, is that relation of homogeneous things which determines the , quantity of one from the quantity of another, without the intervention of a third.
Two numbers, lines, or quantities, A and B, being proposed, their relation one to another may be considered under one of tbese two heads : 1. How much A ex-ceeds B, or B exceeds A ? And this is found by taking A from B, or B from A, and is called
arithmetic rea-f,,n ,
or
ratio.
2. Ογ how many times, and parts of a time, A contains B, or B contains A ? And this is called
geometric reason
or
ratio
; (or, as Euclid defines it, it is the
mutual habitude,
or
respect,
of two magnitudes of the same kind, according to quantity ; that is, as to how often the one contains, or is contained in, the other) ; and is found by dividing A by B, or B by A. And here note, that that quantity which is referred to another quantity is called the
antecedent of tho ratio ; 
and that to which the other is referred is called the
con
fie
queηt of the ratio.i
as, in the ratio of A. to B, A is ’the antecedent, and B the ctnsequent. Therefore any quantity, as antecedent, divided by any quantity as a consequent, gives the ratio of that antecedent to the consequent.
'Γhus the ratio os A to B is ~, shut the ratio of B
Jo
to A is —; and, in numbers, the ratio of 12 to 4 is A
—=3, or triple ; but the ratio of 4 to 12 is --- — -»
or fubtriple.
And here
note,
that thc quantifies thus compared
must
be
of thc fame kind ; that is, such as by nmltiρli-cation may be made to exceed one the other, or as thesc quantities are said to have a ratio between them, which, being multiplied, may be made to exceed one another. Thus a line, how shoit foever, may be multiplied, that is, produced fo long as to exceed any given right line ; and consequently these may be compared together, and the ratio expressed : but as a line can never, by any multiplication whatever, be made to have shreadth, that is, to be made equal to a fuperficies, how small foever ; these can therefore never be compared together, and consequently have no ratio or respect one to another, according to quantity ; that is, as to how often the one contains, or is contained in, the other. See Quantity, RATI0C1NAT10N, the act of reafoning. See Reason ing.
RA ΓΙΟΝ, or Ratian, in the army, a portion of ammunition, bread, drink, and forage, distributed to each soldier in the army, for his daily fubsistence, &c. The horse have rations of hay and oats when they cannot go out to forage. The rations of bread are regulated by weight. The ordinary ration of a foot soldier is a pound and a half of bread per day. The officers have several rations according to their quality and the number of attendants they are obliged to keep.— when the ration is augmented on occasions of rejoicing, it is called a
double ration.
The ship’s crews have alfo their ratiofts or allowances of bisket, pulie, and water, proportioned according to their stock.
RATIONALE, a folution or account of the principles of fome opinion, action, hypbthesis, phenomenon, or the like.
RATIBOR, a town of Germany, in Silesia, and capital of a duchy of the same name, with a castle. It has been twice taken by the Swedes, and is seated on the river oder, in a country fertile in corn and fruits, 15 miles north-east of Troppaw, and 142 east of Prague. E. Long. 22. 24. N. Lat. 50. 14.
RATISB0N, an ancient, large, rich, handfome, and strong city of Germany, in Bavaria, free and imperial, with a bishop’s fee, whose bishop is a prince of the empire, lt is called by the Germans Regenshurg, from the river Regens, which runs under a line stone bridge, and throws itself into the Danube below the city ; and the rivers Luber and Nab mix with it above the city. The French call it Ratisbon, in imitation of the Latins ; it hath formerly been subject to the kings of Bavai ia, who made it the place of their residence ; but it was declared free by the emperor Frederick 1. which does not however hinder the dukes of Bavaria from •dividing the toll with the citizens, according to an agreement between them. Th¢fe princes have alfo the criminal juriidiction, for which the magistrates of the city pay them homage, lt is the first city of the bench of Suabia, and contains at prefent within its walls five different free states of the empire ; namely, the bishop, the abbot of St Emmeran, the abbesses of the Low and High Munster, and the city. The inhabitants of Ratifoon have the privilege not to be cited before other tribunals, unless for actions above 400 florins. The senate is composed of 17 members, and there is a council of 10, which is charged with the government of the state. The citizens have a right to elect a chief, who judges of the affairs of police. The catholics have the exercife of their religion in the cathedral church, and others, and
the Lutherans in three churches, which they have built. The magistrates and officers of thc city are all Protestants ; and it is to be remarked, that although there are about 2 2 Catholic churches, yet there are very few Catholic citizens, the magistracy not allowing the freedom of the town to be given to Catholics living there. As this city is large,.elegant, and full of magnificent houses,-it has been chosen many years for the place of holding the diet, upon account of the conveniency, to many neighbouring princes and states, of ιf ending their provi-sions by land and water,■ without great expence. The town-house, in the hall of which the Diet meets, is extremely magnificent. In the year 1740, however, when there was a war in Germany, the Diet met at Frankfort on the Main, till after the death of the emperor Charles VII. Provisions are very plentiful at Ratishon in time of peace. The inhabitants have a good deal of trade, the river on which it stands being navigable, and communicating with a great part of Germany. lt is 55 miles south-east of Nuremberg, 62 north of Munich, and 1 95 west of vienna. E. Long. 1∙2. 5. N. Lat. 48. 59.
RATLlNES, or, as the sailors call them
ratlins,
those lines which make the ladder steps to go up the shrouds and puttocks, hence called the
ratlins os the shrouds.
RATOLFZEL, a strong town of Germany, in Suabia, near the west end of the lake Constance. It is seated on that part of it called
Bodeηfie,
and belongs to the house of Austria, who took it from the duke of wirtemburg, after the battle of Nordlingen. It is 12 miles west of the city of Confiance. It is defended by the impregnable caille of Hohen Dwel, on an inacces-sible hill in the middle of a plain, the rock of which is flint, fo that a few men may hold it out against an army.
RATTLESNAKE. See Crotalus..
RATTLESNAKE Roof.
See PθLYGALA.
RATZEBURG, or Ra tzemburg, an ancient town of Germany, in the circle of Lower Saxony, and in the duchy of Lawenburgh, with a bishop’s fee and a castle. The town depends on the duchy of Lawenburg, and the cathedral church on that of Ratzburg. lt is feated on an eminence, and almost surrounded with a lake 25 miles in length and three in breadth. The Duke of Lawenburg seized and fortified it in 1689, and the king of Denmark took it in 1693 ; but it was dismantled, and restored in 1 700 to the Duke, who re-fortified it. This town has been frequently pillaged, particularly in 1552, by Francis duke of Saxe Lawenburg, becaufe the canons retufed to elect his son Magnus their bishop. It lies nine miles south of Lubec. This place is noted fi>r its excellent beer. E. Long. 10. 58. N. Lat. 
J3∙ 47∙
RAVA, a town os Great Poland, and capital of a palatinate of the same name, with a fortified castle, where they keep state prifoners. The houses arc built of wood,, and there is a Jesuits college. It is seated in a morass covered with water, which proceeds from the ri-ver Rava, with which it is surrounded. It is 45 miles f⅝>uth of Blosko, and 50 fouth-west of λVarfaw. The palatinate is bounded on the north by that of Blosko, on the east by that of Mazovia, on the south by that of Sandomer, and on the west by that of Lencieza.
RAVEL1N, in-fortification, was anciently a flat
bastion placed in the middle .of a curtain ; but now a detached work composed only of two faces, which make a saliant angle without any flanks, and raised before the counterscarp of the place. 8ee Fortification.
RAVEN, in ornithology. See Corvus.
Sea Raven,
or
corvo marino
of Kongo in Africa, in
ichthyology, is about six feet long, and big in proportion ; but the most singular circumstance appertaining to this creature is the stone found in its head, to which the natives afcribe fome medicinal virtues, and the delicate taste of its hard roe, which is still much admired, when dried in the sun, and becomes »;s hard as a stone.
RAVENGLAS, a town of Cumberland in Eng-Iand, situated between the rivers Irt and Efl<, which, with the sea, encompass three parts of it. It is a well built place, and has a good road for shipping, which brings it some trade. E. Long. o. 5-. N. Lat. 54. 20.
RAVENNA (anc. geog.), a noble city of Gallia Cis-padana; a colony of Thessalians, on the Adriatic, in waft-es or a boggy situation, which proved a natural security to it. The houses were all of wood, the communication by bridges and boats, and the town kept fweet and clean by the tides carrying away the mud and foil, (Strabo). Anciently it had a port at the mouth of the Bedesis ; Augustus added a new port, capacious to hold a fleet, for the security of the Adriatic, between which and the city lay the via Cæfaris. In the lower age it was the seat of the ostrogoths for 72 years ; but being recovered by Narses, Justinian’s general, it becamei the residence of the exarchs, magistrates sent by the emperor from Constantinople, for 175 years, when it was taken by the Longobards. It is still called
Ravenna,
capital of Romania. The seat of the western or Roman Empire was by Honorius translated to Ravenna about the year 404, and hence the country in which it stood was called
Romania,
in the pope’s territory. It had a very flourishing trade till the sea withdrew two miles from it, which has been a great detriment. The fortifica-tions are of little importance, and the citadel is gone to ruin. It is now most remarkable for the excellent wine produced in its neighbourhood. The mausoleum of Theodoric is still to be seen, remarkable for being covered by a single stone 28 feet in diameter and 15 thick. It was at Ravenna that the duke of Nemours fell, after having gained a most decifive victory over thee, confederate army, in 1511. See France, n" 129, and Modern Universal History, vol. xx. p. 324. &c.
RAVENSBURG, a county of Germany, in wdl-phalia, bounded on the north by the bishoprics of osnaburg and Minden, on the east by Lemgow, on the south by the bishopric of Paderborn, and on the west by that of Munster. It belongs to the king of. Pruffia, and has its name from the castle of Ravenf-burg.
Ravensburg, a free and imperial town of Germany, in Algow, in the circle of Suabia. It is well built, and the public structures are handsome. The inhabitants are partly Protestants and partly Papists.
It is seated on the river C∆enfs, in E. Long. 9. 46. N. Lat. 47. 44.
RAVET, an infect shaped like a may-bug, or cock chaffel, (see Scarabæus), with which the island of Guadalouρe is much pestered. It has a stinking smell, preys upon paper, books, and furniture, and whatever
they do not gnaw is discojoured by their Oi dure. These nasty infects, which are very numerous, and appear chiefly by night, would be intolerable, were it not for a large spider, some of them as long as a man’s fist, which intangles them in it>web, and otherwise furprifes them. Οη .which account the'inhabitants of the island are very careful of these spiders.
RAVILLIAC (Francis), the infamous assassin of .Henry IV. of France, was a native of Angoulesme, and at the time of his execution was about one or two and thirty years of age. See France, n0 146, and Henry IV. of France. Ravilliac was the son of pa-rents who lived upon alms. His father was that sovt of inferior retainer to .the law, to which the vulgar give the name of a
pettifogger,
and his fon had been bred up in the same way. Ravilliac had set up a claim to an estate, but the cause went against him : this disappointment affected his mind deeply : he afterwards taught a fchool, and, as himself said, received chari-table gifts, though but of a very small value, from the parents of those whom he taught ; and yet his distress was so great, that he had much ado to live, when he was seized for the king’s murder, he was very loosely guarded ; all were permitted to speak with him who pleased ; arid it was thought very remarkable that a Jesuit should say to him, " Friend, take care, whatever you do, that you don’t charge honest people.” He was removed next day from the house of Efpernûn to the Conciergerie, the proper prison of the parliament of. Paris. ΛVhen he was first interrogated, he answered with great boldness, " That he had done it, and would do it, if it were to do again.” when he was told that the king, though dangerously wounded, was living, and might recover, he said that he had struck him home, and that he was sure he was dead. In his subsequent examinations he owned that he had long had an intention to kill the king, because he suf-fered two religions in his kingdom ; and that he endeavoured to obtain an audience of him, that he might admonish him. He also said that he understood the king’s great armament to be against the pope, and that, in his opinion, to make war against the pope, was to make war against God.
WC
have no distinct account of the three last examinations ; but he is said to have perfisted,
in the most solemn asseverations, that he had no accomplices, and that nobody had persuaded him to the fact. He appeared surprised at nothing so much as at the universal abhorrence of the people, which, it seems, he did not expect. They were forced to guard him strictly from his fellow-prisoners, who would otherwise have murdered him. The butchers of Paris desired to have him put into their hands, affirming that they would flay him alive, and that he should still live 12 days, when he was put to the torture, he broke out into horrid execrations, and always insisted that he did the fact from his own motive, and that he could accuse nobody. Οη the day of his execution, after he had made the
amende honourable
before the church of Notre Dame, he was carried to the Greve; and, being brought upon a scaffold, was tied to a wooden engine in the shape of a St Andrew’s crofs. The knife with which he did the murder being fastened in his right hand, it was first burnt in a flow fire ; then the sseshy parts of his body were torn with red-hot pincers, and melted lead, oil, pitch, and rosin, poured into the wounds,
and through
a
clay funnel into his bowels by
the navel.
The people refused to pray for hirn ; and when, according to the sentence pronounced upon him, he came to be dragged to pieces by four horfes, one of those that were brought appearing to be but weak, one of the spectators offered his own, with which the criminal was much moved : he is said to have then made a con-fession, which was so written by thc greffier Voifιn, that not so much as one word of it could ever be read. He was very earnest for absolution, which his confessor refufed, unless he would reveal his accomplices ; " Give it me conditionally (said he) ; upon condition that
I 
have told the truth,” which they did. His body was so robust, that it resisted the force of the horses ; and the executioner was at length obliged to cut him into quarters, which the people dragged through the streets. The house in which he was born was demolished, and a column of infamy erected ; his father and mother were banished from Angoulesme, and ordered to quit the kingdom upon pain 6f being hanged, if they returned, without any form of process ; his brothers, sisters, uncles, and other relations, were commanded to lay aside the name of Ravilliac, and to affume some other. Such was the fate of this execrable monster, who, ac-cording to his own account, sussered himself to be im-pelled to such a fact by the seditious fermons and books of the Jefuits, whom Henry, rather out of fear than love, had recalled and caressed, and to whom he had bequeathed his heart.
Neither the dying words of Ravilliac, nor so much of his process as was published, were credited by his cotemporaries. Regalt the historian says, that there were two different opinions concerning this assaffina-tion ; one, that it was conducted by some grandees, who sacrificed that monarch to their old resentments; the other, that it was done by the emissaries of the Spaniards. Letters from Brussels, Antwerp, Mechlin, and other places, were received before the 15th of May, with a report of the king’s death. Though nothing occurs in the examinations of Ravilliac that were first published, in reference to hi3 journeys to Naples and other places; yet as these are set down as certain truths by good authors, so there are probable grounds to believe that they were not fictitious. It appears from Sir Ralph win wood’s Memorials, that Ravilliac had been not long before at Brussels. Amongst other cir-cumstances that created a very great doubt, whether the assassin spoke truth, were the things found in his pocket at the time he was feized ; amongst which was a chaplet, the figure of a heart made in cotton, in the centre of which he said there was a bit of the true cross, but when cut there was none, which he affirmed was given him by a canon at Angoulesme, a piece o£ paper with the arms of France painted upon it, ano-ther full of characters, and a third containing verses for the meditation of a criminal going to execution. The provost of Pluviers, or Petiviers, in Beauce, about
fix 
miles from Paris, had said openly on the day that Henry IV. was murdered, " This day the king is either slain or dangerously wounded.” After the king’s death wr as known, he was seized and sent prisoner to Paris ; ‘ but, before he was examined, he was found hanged in the firings of his drawers. His body was, notwith-standing, hung up by the heels on the common gibbet on the 19th of June, what increased the suspicions
grounded on this man’s end, was his having two sons Jesuits, and his being a dependent on the family of Monsieur d’Entragues,
RAUN,. upon the river Miza, a town of fome strength, remarkable for a bloody skirmish between the Prussians and Auslrians, in August 1744.. The king of Pruffia, intending to get possession of Beraun, sent thither six battalions, with eight cannon, and 800 huf∙ sars ; but General Festititz being there with a great party of his corps, and M. Luchesi with tooo horfe, they not only repulsed the Prussians, but attacked them in their turn, and, after a warm difpute, obliged them to retire with considerable loss.
RAURICUM (anc. geog.), a town of the Raurici, situated over against Abnoba, a mountain from which the Danube takes its rise. A Roman colony led by L. Manutius Plancus the scholar and friend of Cicero : called
Colonia Rauriacα
(Pliny),
Ratrica
(Inscription), 
Auguβa Raiιricorum.
The town was destroyed in Julian’s time. It is now commonly called
Augsl,
a village greatly decayed from what it formerly was. It is situated on the Rhine, distant about two hours to the east Of Basil. The country is now the canton of Basil.
RAY (John), a celebrated botanist, was the son of Mr Roger Ray a blacksmith, and was born at Black Notly in Essex in 1628. He received the sirst rudiments of learning at the grammar-school at Braintree ; and in 1644 was admitted into Catharine hall in Cambridge, from whence he afterwards removed to Trinity college in that university. He took the degree of master of arts, and became at length a senior fellow of the college ; but his intense application to his studies having injured his health, he was obliged at his leisure hours to exercise himself by riding or walking in the fields, which led him to the study of plants. He noted from Johnson, Parkinson, and the
Phytologia Britannica,
the places where curious plants grew ; and in 1658 rode from Cambridge to the city of Chester, from whence he went into North wales, visiting many places, and among others the famous hill of Snowdon ; returning by Shrewshury and Gloucester. In 1660 he published his
Catalogus Plantarum circa Cantabrigiam naf-centium,
and the same ycar w’as ordained deacon and priest. In 1661 he accompanied Francis willoughby, Esq; and others in search of plants and other natural curiosities, in the north of England and Scotland ; and the next year made a western tour from Chester, and through wales, to Cornwall, Devonshire, Dorfetshire, Hampshire, wiltshire, and other counties. He afterwards travelled with Mr willoughby and other gen-tlemen through Holland, Germany, Italy, France, &c. took several tours in England, and was admitted fellow of the Royal Society. In 1672, his intimate and beloved friend Mr willoughby died in the 37th year of his age, at Middleton Hall, his seat in Yorkshire ;
" to the infinite and unspeakable loss and grief (says Mr Ray) of myself, his friends, and all good men.” There having been the closest and sincerest friendship between Mr willoughby and Mr Ray, who were men of fimilar natures and tastes, from the time of their being fellow collegians, Mr willoughby not only confided in Mr Ray, in his lifetime, but also at his death : for he made him one of the executors of his will, and -charged him with the education of his fons Francis and
Thomas, leaving him also for life 60 Ï. per
annum.
I he eldest of these young gentlemen not being four years of age, Mr Ray, as a faithful trustee, betook himself to the instruction of them ; and for their use composed his
Nomenclator Claficus,
which was pub'ish-ed this very year, 1672. Francis the eldest dying before he was of age, the younger became Lord Middle-ton. Not many months after the death of Mr willoughby, Mr Ray lost another of his best friends, bi-shop wilkins ; whom he visited in London the 8th of November 1672, and found near expiring by a total suppreffion of urine for eight days. As it is natural for the mind, when it is hurt in one part, to seek relief from another ; so Mr Ray, having lost some os his best friends, and being in a manner left destitute, conceived thoughts of marriage ; and accordingly, in June 1 673, did actually marry a gentlewoman of about 20 years of age, the daughter of Mr o∏kley of Launton in oxfordshire. Towards the end of this year, came forth his " observations Topographical, Moral, &c.” made in foreign countries; to which was addcd his 
Catalogue Stirpium in exteris regiοnibus obfervatarum :
and about the same time, his
Collection os unusual or local IsηgIfh wor ^ds,
which he had gathered up in his travels through the counties of England. After having pub-hshed many books on fubjects foreign to his profeffion, he at length resolved to publish in the character of a divine, as well as in that of a natural philosopher : in which view he published his excellent demonstration of the being and attributes of God, entitled
The Wifdom ot God mansefled tn the Works os the Creation,
8vo, 1697. The rudiments of this work were read in some college lectures ; and another collection of the fame kind he enlarged and published under the title of
Three Pyficο-theοlogical Discourses, concerning the Chaos, Deluge, and Diffolution of the World,
8vo, 1692. He died in 1705. He was modest, affable, and communicative ; and was
distinguished by his probity, charity, fobriety, and piety. He wrote a great number of works ; the principal of which, besides those already mentioned, are, 1.
Catalogue Plantarum AηgIηε.
2.
Dictionariotum Trilinguefe-cundum locos communes.
3.
H'ιfloria Plantarum, Species, hactenus éditas, aliafque ιnfuper rnultas noviter inventas et defcriptas complectens,
3 vols. 4.
Methodus Plantarum nova, cum Tabulis,
8vo, and several other works on plants. 6.
Synopfis Methodica Animalium quadrupe-dum et Serpentini generis,
8vo⅛ 6.
Synopfis Methodica A-vium et Pifcium. η. Hifiοria Infectorum, opus pofihumurn. 
8.
Methodus Infectarum.
9. Philofophical Letters, &c.
Ray, in optics, a beam of light emitted srom a ra-diant or luminous body. See Light and optics.
Infiected Rays,
those rays of light which, on their near approach to the edges of bodies, in paffing by them, are bent out of their course, being turned either from the body or towards it. This property of the rays of light is generally termed
diffraction
by foreigners, and Dr Hooke fometimes called it
defection.
Refiected Rays,
those rays of light which, after falling upon the body, do not go beyond the surface of it, but are thrown back again.
Refracted Rays,
those rays of light which, after fall-ing upon any medium, enter its surface, being bent eh ther towards or from a perpendicular to the point
on 
which they fell.
Pencil pf
Rays,
a number of
rays
issuing from a point of an object, and diverging in the form of a cone.
RAZOR, a well-known instrument, used by fur-gcons, barbers, &c. for (having off the hair from va-rious parts of the body.—As shaving to many people is a most painful operation, cutlers in different cotιn-tries have long applied their skill to remove that inconvenience. Some have invented soaps of a peculiar kind to make the operation more easy, and some have invented straps. with respect to razors, some artists have succeeded rather by accident than from any fixed principle ; and therefore we have found great inequality in the goodnefs of razors made by the same artist.
A correspondent assures us, that he has for 40 years past been at much pains to find out razors made by the best makers both in England and Scotland, and was fortunate enough, about 22 years ago, to discover a kind made by a Scotchman of the name of
Logan,
which he called magnetical razors, because they were directed to be touched with an artificial magnet before ufing. These, our friend assures us, are most excellent razors, and he has used them for upwards of 20 years. He fays likewise that they continue in good order, without requiring to be ground ; but that the great draw-back on their being generally used, is the price, which is higher than most people are able or disposed to give ' for that jnstrument. ‘ ûur correspondent, who resides in the vicinity of London, alio informs us, that lately the famous surgeon’s instrument-maker, Mr Savigny in Pall Mall, after numberless experiments, in the course of above 20 years, has at length brought razors to a degree of perfection never yet equalled ; and with such certainty, that the purchaser is in no danger of a disappointment, though the price is very moderate. By these, we are told, the operation of stiaving is performed with greater ease, more perfectly, and more ex-
peditiousiy, than with any other.
RE, in grammar, an inseparable particle added to the beginning of words to double or otherwise modify their meaning ; as in re-action, re-move, τe-export, &c.
RE-ACTION, in phyfiology, the refistance made by all bodies to the action or impulse of others that endeavour to change its state whether of motion or rest, &c.
READING, the art of delivering written language with propriety, force, and elegance.
" we must not judge so unfavourably of eloquence or good reading (says the illustrious Fenelon), as to reckon it only a frivolous art, that a declaimer uses to impose upon the weak imagination of the multitude, and to serve his own ends. It is a very serious art, defigned to instruct people ; to suppress their passions and reform their manners ; to support the laws, direct public councils, and to make men good and happy.”
Reason and experience demonstrate, that
delivery in reading ought to be less animated thaq in interefledspeaking. 
In every exercise of the faculty of speech, and those expressions of countenance and gesture with which it is generally attended^ wε may be confidered to be always in one of the two following fituations : First, delivering our
bosom fentiτnents
on circumstances which relate to ourselves or others, or, secondly,
repeating
something 
that was spoken on a certain occasion for the amuse-
ment or information of an auditor. Now,
if we observe
the deliveries natural to these two situations, we ssiall find, that the first may be accompanied with every degree of expression which can manifest itself in us, from the lowest of sympathy to the most violent and energe-tic of the superior passions ; while the latter, from the speaker’s chief buiiness being to repeat what he heard 
with accuracy,
discovers only a faint imitation of those signs of the emotions which we suppose agitated him from whom the words were first borrowed.—The use and necessity of this difference of manner is evident ; . and if we are attentive to these natural figns of ex-pression, we sliall find them conforming with the great-est nicety to the slightest and most minute movements of the breast.
This repetition of another’s words might be supposed. to pass through the mouth os a second or third person ; and in these cases, since they were not ear and eye wit-nesses of him who first spoke them, their manner os de-livery would want the advantage necessarily arifing from an immediate idea of the original one ; hence, on this account, this would be a still lefs lively representation than that of the firft
repeater.
But as, from a daily observation of every variety of speeeh and its associated figns of emo-tion, mankind foon become pretty well acquainted with them, and this in different degrees, according to their discernment, senfibility, &c. experience (hows us that these latter
repeaters
(as we call them) might conceive and use a manner of delivery which, though lefs
charafie-rijlic
perhaps, would on the whole be no way inferior to the
fiist,
as to the
common
natural expression proper for their fituation. It appears, therefore, that repeaters
of every degree
may be esteemed upon a level as to anima-tion, and that our twofold distinction above contains accurately enough the whole variety of ordinary delivery ;—we say
ordinary,
because
There is another very peculiar kind of delivery sometimes used in the person of a
repeater,
of which it will in this place be necessary to take some notice, what we mean here is
mimicry;
an accomplissiment whieh, when perfectly and properly displayed, never fails of yielding a high degree of pleasure. But fince this pleasure chiefly ’results from the principle of
imitation 
respecting
manner,
and not from the purport of the 
matter
communicated ; fince, comparatively speaking, it is only attainable by few persons, and practised only on particular occafions;—on these accounts it must fie refused a place among the modes of useful delivery taught us by
general
nature, and esteemed a qualifica-tion purely anomalous.
These distinctions with regard to a speaker’s situation of mind premised, let .us fee to which of them an
author
and his
reader
may most properly
be
referred, and how they are circumstanced. with regaιd to one another.
The matter of all books is, either what the author says in his
own
person, or an acknowledged recital of the words of
others :
hence an author may be esteemed both an
original
fpeaker and a
repeater,
according as what he writes is ©f the first or fecond kind. Now a reader must be suppofed either actually to personate the author, or one whose office is barely to communicate what he has said to an auditor. But in the first of these suppositions heβ would, in the delivery of what is the au-thor’s
own, evidently commence,
mimic;
which being, as
above observed, a character not acknowledged by gene-ral nature in this department, ought to be rejected as generally improper. The other supposition therefore must. be accounted right ; and then, as to the
whole 
matter of the book, the reader is found to be exactly in the situation of a
repeater,
save that he takes what he ■ delivers from the page before him instead of his memory. It follows then, in proof of our initial proposition, that, if we are directed by nature and propriety, the manner of our delivery in reading ought to be inferior in warmth and energy to what we fhould use, were the language before us the fpontaneous effusions of our own hearts in the circumftances of those out of whose mouths it is supposed to proceed.
Evident as the purport of this reasoning is, it has not so much as been glanced at by the writers on the subject we are now entered upon, or any of its kindred ones ; which has occasioned a manifest want os accuracy in several of their rules and observations. Among the rest, this precept has been long reverberated from author to author as a perfect standard for propriety in reading. " Deliver yourfelves in the same manner you would do, were the matter your own original sentiments uttered directly srom the heart.” As all kinds of delivery must have many things in common, the rule will in many articles be undoubtedly right ; but, from what has been said above, it must be as certainly faulty in respect to several others ; as it is certain nature never confounds by like signs two things so very different, as 
a
copy
and an
original,
an emanation darted immediately from the sun, and its weaker appearance in the lunar reflection.
The precepts we have to offer for improving the above-mentioned rule, ihall be delivered under the heads of
accent, eτnphafis, modulation, exprefiιon, pauses,
&c.
'1.
Accent.
In attending to the affections of the Voice when we speak, it is easy to observe, that, independent of any other consideration, one part of it differs from another, in
βrefs, energy,
or
force
of utterance. In words we sind one syllable differing from another with respect to this mode ; and in sentences one or more words as frequently vary from the rest in a similar manner. This stress with regard to
syllables
is called 
accent,
and contributes greatly to the variety and harmony of language. Respecting
words,
it is termed
emphasis ;
and its chief office is to assist the sense, force, or perspicuity of the sentence—of which more under tbe iιext head.
" Accent (as defcr⅛ed in the Lectures on Elocu-tion) is made by us two ways; either by dwelling longer upon one syllable than tbe rest, or by giving it a Γmarter percussion of the voice in utterance. Df the first of thefe we have instances in the words
glory, father, holy ;
of the last in
bat’tie, hadit, bor'row.
So that accent with ‘us is not referred to tune, but to time ; to quantity, not quality ; to the more equable or precipitate motion of the voice, not to the variation of the notes or inflexions.”
In
theatric declamation,
in order to give it more pomp and solemnity, it is ufual to dwell longer than common upon the unaccented syllables ; and the author now quoted has endeavoured to prove (p. 51. 54.) the practice faulty, and to ssiow (p. 55.) that " though it (i. e.
true
folemnity) may
demand a flower utterance
than usual, yet (it) requires that the same
proportion
in point of quantity be observed in the syllables, as there is in mufical notes when the same tune is played in quicker or flower time.” But that this deviation from ordinary speech is not a fault, as our author afferts ; nay, that on the contrary it is a real beauty when kept under proper regulation, the following observations it 13 hoped will sussiciently prove.
(I.) It is a truth of the most obvious nature, that those things which on their application to their proper senses have a power of raffing in us certain ideas and emotions, are ever
differently
modified in their constituent parts when different effects are produced in the mind : and also (II.) that, within proper bounds, were we to suppose these conftituent parts to be proportionally in-creased or diminissied as to
quantity,
this effect would still be the same as to
quality.—
For instance : The different ideas of strength, swiftness, &c. which are raised in us by the same species of animals, is owing to the different form of their corresponding parts; the different effects of music on the passions, t® the different airs and movements of the melody ; and the different expressions of human speech, to a difference in tone, fpeed, &c. of the voice. And these peculiar effects would still remain the same, were we to suppofe the animals above alluded to, to be
greater
or
lefjer,
within their proper bounds ; the movement of the music
quicker
or
flower, 
provided it did not palpably interfere with that of fome other species ; and the pitch of the voice
higher
or
lower, 
if not carried out of the limits in which it is observed on fimilar occafions naturally to move. Farther (III.) fince, respecting the emotions more efpecially, there are no rules to determine
à priori
what effect any particular attribute or modification of an object will have upon a percipient, our knowledge of this kind mnst evidently be gained from experience. Lastly, (IV.) In every art imitating nature we are pleased to fee the characteristic members of the pattern
heightened
a 
little farther than perhaps it ever was carried in any real example, provided it be not bordering upon some ludicrous and disagreeable provinces of excess.
Now for the application of these premiffes.—To keep pace and be consistent with the z⅛∙∏ι(y of the tragic muse, the delivery of her language ssiould neceffarily be dignified ; and this it is plain from observation (I.) cannot be accomplished otherwise than by something diffe-rent in the manner os it from that of ordinary fpeech ; fince
dignity
is effentially different from
familiarity.
But how must we discover this different manner ? By attending to nature : and in this case ssie tells us, that befides ufing a
βower
delivery, and greater
diβinfinejs
of the words (which every thing merely
grave
requires, and gravity is a
concomitant
of dignity, though not its
effence), 
we muft dwell a little
longer
upon the
unaccented
syllables than we do in common. As to what our author observes io the above quotation, of
dignity’s
only requiring a
βower
utterance than ordinary, while the proportion of the syllables as to quantity continues the fame; it is apprehended the remark (II.) respecting 
quicknefs
and
Jlownefs
of movement, will show it to be not altogether true. For since the delivery is not altered in
form,
its expression muft be ftill of the fame kind, and perhaps what may be rightly suggested by 
the term
gravely familiar.
But something farther may be yet said in defence of this
artificial
delivery, as our author calls it. Is not the movement of any thing, of whatever species, when dignified or solemn, in general of an
equable
and
deliberate
nature (as in the minuet, the military step, &c.) ? And in theatrical declamation, is not the propensity to introduce this
equab!enefs
so strong, that it is almost
ιm-poflible
to avoid it wholly, were we ever so determined to do it ? If thele two queries be answered in the affirmative (as we are persuaded they will), while the sirst supports our argument for the
propriety
of the manner of delivery in question, the second discovers a kind of ne-
cefiity
for it. And that this manner may be carried a little
farther
in quantity on the
fiage
than is usual in 
real life,
the principle (IV.) of heightening nature will justify, provided faslrion (which has ever fomething to do in these articles) give it a fonction ; for the
precife 
quantity of several heightenings may be varied by this great legislator almost at will.
II.
Emphafis.
As
emphafis
is not a thing annexed to particular words, as
accent
is to syllables, but owes its rise chiefly to the
meaning
of a paffage, and must therefore vary its feat according as that meaning varies, it will be neceffary to explain
a
little farther the general idea given of it above.    ♦
Οί mart’s sirst disobedience,’ and the fruit Of that forbidden tree, whose mortal taste Brought death into the world, and all our woe, &c. Sing heav’nly muse, &c.
Supposing, in reference to the above well-known lines, that originally other beings, besides men, had dis-obeyed the commands of the Almighty, and that the circumstance were well known to us, there would fall an
emph ιfis
upon the word
man's
in the sirst line, and hence it would be read thus ;
of
man's
sirst disobedience, and the fruit, &e.
But if it were a notorious truth, that mankind had transgreffed in a peculiar manner more than once, the 
emphafis
would fall on
firfi,
and the line be read,
Οί man’s
firfi
disobedience, &c.
Again, admitting death (as was really the case). to
have been an unheard-of and dreadful punishment brought upon man in consequence of his transgression 5 on that supposition the third line would be read,
Brought
death
into the world, &c.
But if we were to suppose mankind knew there was such an evil as death in other regions, though the place they inhabited had been free from it till their transgression ; the line would run thus,
Brought death into the
world,
&c.
Now from a proper delivery of the above lines, with regard to any one of the suppositions we have chosen, out of several others that might in the same manner havc been imagined, it will appear that the
emphafis
they illustrate is effected by a manifest
delay
in the pronunciation, and a tone something
fuller
and
louder
than is used in ordinary ; and that its office is solely to determine the meaning of a sentence with reference to something foid before, presuppofed by the author as general knowledge, or in order to remove an, ambiguity where a paffage is capable of having more senses given it than one.
But, supposing in the above example, that none of the senses there pointed out were precisely the true one, and that the meaning of the lines were no other than what is obviousiy suggested by their simple construction; in that cafe it may be asked, if in reading them there ssiould be no word dignified with the emphatical accom-panyments above described ?—The answer is, Not one with an emphasis of the
Jame
kind as that we have just been illustrating ; yet it is nevertheless true, that on hearing these lines well read, we ssiall sind some words, distinguissied from the rest by a manner of delivery bordering a little upon it (a). And thefe words will in general be such as seem the most important in the sentence, or on other accounts to merit this distinction. But as at best it only
enforces, graces,
or
enlivens,
and not
fixes
the meaning of any paffage, and even caprice and fofliion ( b) have often a hand in determining its place and magnitude, it cannot properly be reckoned an 
ejfential
of delivery. However, it is ot too much moment to be neglected by those who would wish to be good readers ; and, for the fake of distinction, we may not
(a)
   The following lines will illustrate both these kinds of streffes: For, to convey their right meaning, the word any is evidently to be pronounced louder and fuller than those with the accents over them.
Get wealth and place, if possible with grace ;
If not, by any means get wealth and place. Pope.
This couplet is accented in the manner we sind it in the
EJfay on Elocution
by
Mafion.
And if, according to the judgment of this author, the words thus distinguished are to have an emphatical strefs, it must be of the inferior kind above-mentioned, and which a little farther on we call
emphafis of force ;
while the word any in a different type alone poffeffes the other fort ©f energy, and which is there contradistinguished by the term
emphafis. ojfinfi-
(b)
   Among a number of people who have had proper opportunities of learning to read in the best manner it is now taught, it would be difficult to sind two, who, in a given instance, would ufe the
emphafis os force
alikeft  either as to place or quantity. Nay some scarce use any at all : and others will not scruple to carry it
much
beyond any thing we have a precedent for in common discourse ; and even now and then throw it upon words so. very trifling in themselves, that it is evident they do it with no other view, than for the fake of the
variety
it gives to the modulation.—This practice, like the introduction of discords into music, may without doubt be indulged now and then ; but were it too frequent, the capital intent of these energies would manifestly either be destroyed or rendered dubious.
not unaptly denominate both the kinds of energies in question, by the terms
emphafis of fense,
and
tmphafis of forte(c}.
Now from the above account of tbese two species of emphasis it will appear, " that in reading, as in speak-ing, tlie sirst of them must be determined entirely by the
sense
of the paffage, and always made
alike :
But as to the other,
tafle
alone seems to have a right of fixing its situation and quantity.”—Farther : Since the more effential of these two energies is solely the work of
na-tore
(as appears by its being
coηfiaηtly
found in the common conversation of people of all kinds ot capacities and degrees of knowledge), and the moft ignorant perfon never fails of ufing it
rightly
in the effusions of his own heart, it happens very luckily, and ought always to be remembered, that provided we understand what we read, and give way io the dictates of our own feeling, the
emphafis of senfe
can fearce ever avoid falling spontaneously upon its proper place.
Here it will be neceffary to say something by way of reply to a question which will naturally occur to the mind of every one. As the rule for the
emphafis
of
sense 
requires we should understand what we read before it can be properly used, it is incumbent upon us never to attempt to read what we have not previously studied for that purpose ? In anfwer to this, it must be obser-ved, that though such a step will not be without its advantages ; yet, as srom the fairnefs of printed types, the well-known pauses of punctuation, and a long ac-quaintance with the phraseology and construction of our language, &c. experience tells us it is
pojfible
to comprehend the fense at the first reading, a previous perusal of what is to be read does not seem
neceffary
to
all, 
though, if they would wissi to appear to advantage, it may be
expedient
to
many ;
and it is this circumstance
which makes us venture upon extemporary reading,
and
give it a place among our arousements.—Similar re-marks might be made with regard to
modulation, expresfion,
&c. did not what is here observed naturally anticipate them.
III.
Modulation
(d). Every person must have observed, that, in speaking,. the voice is snbject to an alteration of found, which in some meafure resembles the movement of a tune. These founds, however, are evidently nothing like so much varied as those that are strictly mufical ; and we have attempted to sliow in the preceding chapter, that, befides this, they have an effential difference in themfelves. Nevertheless, from the general fimilitude of these two articles, they posiels feveral terms in common; and the particular we have now to examine is in both of them called
modulation. 
This affection of the voice, being totally
arbitrary,
is differently characterized in different parts of the world; and, through the power of custom,,every place is in-cliπed to think their own the only one natural and agreeable, and the rest affected with some barbarous twang or ungainly variation ( e ). It maybe observed, however, that though there is a general uniform cast or faslrion of modulation peculiar to every country, yet it by no means follows, that there is or can be any thing fixed in its application to particular paffages ; and therefore we find different people will, in any given instance, ufe modulations fomething different, and nevertheless be each of them equally agreeable.
But, quitting thefe general remarks, we shall (as our purpose requires it) confider the properties of modula -tion a little more minutely.
First, then, we may observe, that, in speaking, there is a particular found (or
key-note,
as it is often called) in which the modulation for the most part runs, and to
(c)    The first of thefe terms answers to the
fimple emphafis
described in the
Lectures on Elocution,
and the second 
nearly
to what is there called
complex.
The difference lies in this. Under
complex emphafis
the author seems (for he is far from being clear in this article) to include the
tones
fimply confidered of all the eft>otions of the mind ; as well the
tender
and
languid,
as the
forcible
and
exulting,
our term is intended to be confined to such modes
of 
expression alone as are marked with an apparent
firefis
or
increase
of the voice.
(d)
   The author of the
Introduction to the Art os Reading,
not allowing that there is any variation of tone, as to
high
and
low,
in the delivery of a complete period or sentence, places modulation solely in the diverfification of the key-note and the variety of syllables, as to
long
or
shorl, swist
or
flow, Jtivng
or
weak,
and
loud
or
Joft.
As we are of a different opinion, our idea of modulation is confined purely to
harmonious inflexions os voice.
Thefe qualities of words, it is true, add greatly both to the force and beauty of delivery ; yet, since some of them are fixed and not arbitrary (as
long
and
short),
and the others (of
swist
and
fiοw,firong
and
weak, loud
and
sst), 
may be considered as modes of expression which do not affect the modulation as to
tone,
it will agree belt with our plan to esteem these properties as refpectively belonging to the establislied laws of
pronunciation
and the
imitative
branch of expression mentioned in the end of the ensuing head.
(e)
   From what accounts we have remaining of the modulation of the ancients, it appears to have been highly ornamented, and apparently something not unlike our modern
recitative ;
particularly that of their theatric declamation was music in its strictest sense, and accompanied with instruments. In the course of time and the progress of refinement, this modulation became gradually more and more simple, till it has now lost the genius of music, and is entirely regulated by taste. At home here, every one has heard the
fing-fong
cant, as it is called, of
Ti ti dum dum, ti ti dum ti dum de,
Ti dum ti dum, ti dum ti dum dum de ;
which, though difgustful now to all but mere rqstics on account of its being out of sashion, was very probably the favourite modulation in which heroic verses were recited by our ancestors. So fluctuating are the taste and practices of mankind ! But whether the power of language over the passions has received any advantage from the change just mentioned, will appear at least very
doubtful,
when w, e recollect the stories of its former triumphs-, and the inherent charms of musical founds.
which its occasional inflexions, either above or below, may in some refpect9 be conceived to have a reference, like that which common music has to its key-note. Yet there is this difference between the two kinds of modulation, that whereas the sirst always concludes in the key-note, the other frequently concludes a tittle below it (f). This key-note, in fpeaking, is generally the found given at the outset of every complete sentence or period; and it may be observed on some occa-sions to vary its pitch through the limits of a musical interval of a considerable magnitude. The tones, that fall a little lower than the key at the close of a sentence or period, are called
cadenies.
These cadences, if we are accurate in our distinctions, will, with respect to their offices, be found of two kinds ; though they meet so frequently together, that st may be best to conceive them only as answerihg a double purpose. Οηε of these offices is to assist the fense, and the other to decorate the modulation. An account of the first may be seen in the section on
Pauses ;
and the latter will be found "to show itself pretty frequently in every thing grave and plaintive, or in poetic description and other highly ornamented language, where the mind is by its influ-ence brought to feel a placid kind of dignity and satissaction. Thefe two cadences, therefore, may be conveniently distinguished by applying to them respective-ly the epithets
fignficaηt
and
ornamental.
we have already observed, that reading should in some things differ from speaking ; and the particular under consideration seems to be one rvhich ought to va-ry a little in these arts. For,
Modulation in reading serves a'twofold purpose. At the same time that it gives pleasure to the ear on the principles of harmony, it contributes through that medium to preferve the attention. And since written lan-guage (when not purely dramatical) is in general more elegant in its construction, and musical in its periods, than the oral one ; and since many interesting particulars are wanting in reading, which are present in speak-ing, that contribute greatly to fix the regard os the hearer ; it seems reasonable, in order to do justice to the language, and in part to supply the incitements os attention just alluded to, that in the former of these two articles a modulation should be used something more harmonious and artificial than in the latter. Agreeably to this reasoniug, it is believed, we shall find every reader, on a narrow examination, adopt more or less a mo-dulation thus ornamented : though, aster all, it must be acknowledged there arc better grounds to believe, that the practice has been hitherto directed intuitively by nature, than that it was discovered by the inductions of reason. we shall conclude this head with a rule for mo-.dulation in reading. “ In every thing dramatic, colloquial, or of simple narrative, let your modulation be the same as in speaking ; but when the subject is flowery, solemn, or dignified, add something to its harmony,
diversify the Jcey-note, and increasc the frequency
of
cadences in proportion to the merit of the compofi tion.”
It will readily be seen, that the precepts here drawn from a comparison between speaking and reading, would be very inadequate, were they left destitute ol the assistance of
tafie,
and the opportunity of
frequently hearing and imitating mafierly readers.
And indeed, to these two great auxiliaries we might very properly have referred the whole matter at once, as capable of giving sufficient directions, had we not remembered that our plan required us to found several of our rules as much on the principles of a philofophical analysis, as on those more familiar ones which will be found of greater efficacy in real practice.
IV.
Expresfion.
i. There is no composition in music, however perfect as to key and melody, but, in order to do justice to the fubject and ideas of the author, will require, in the performing, something more than an exact adherence to
tune
and
time.
This something is of a nature, too, which perhaps can never be ade-quately pointed out by any thing graphic, and results entirely from the taste and feeling of the performer. It is that which chiefly gives music its power over the passions, and characterises its notes with what we mean by the words
sweet, harsh, dull, lively, plaintive, joyous,
&c. for it is evident every found, considered ab-stractedly, without any regard to the movement, or high and low, may be thus modified. Tn practical music, this commanding particular is called
Exprejfioη ;
and as we sind certain tones analogous to it frequently coa-lescing with the modulation of the voice, which indi-eate our paffions and affections (thereby more particu-larly pointing out the meaning of what we say), the term is usually applied in the fame fense to speaking and reading.
These tones are not altogether peculiar to man.— Every animal, that is not dumb, has a power of making several of them. And from their being able, un-affisted by words, to manifest and raife their kindred emotions, they constitute a kind of language of them-selves. In this language of the heart man is eminently conversant ; for we not only understand it in one another, but also in many of the inferior creatures subject-ed by providence to our fervice.
The expreffion here illustrated is one of the most essential articles in good reading, since it not only gives a sinishing to the sense, but, on the principles of sympa-thy and antipathy, has also a peculiar efficacy in interesting the heart. It is likewise an article of most difficult attainment ; as it appears from what follows, that a masterly reader ought not only to be able to incorporate it with the modulation properly as to
quality, 
but in any degree as to
quantity.
Every thing written being a proper imitation of speech, expressive reading must occafionally partake of
(f)
As musical founds have always an harmonica! reference to a key or fundamental note, and to which the mind is still secretly attending, no piece of music would appear perfect, that did not cloie in it, and so naturally put an end to expectation. But as the tones used in speech are not musical, and therefore cannot refer harmonically to any other found, there can be no neceffity that this terminating found (and which we immediately below term the
cadence)
should either be used at all, or follow any particular law as to form,
&c.
farther than what
imposcd by taste and custom.
alI
its
tones. But from what was faid above, of the
difference between reading and speaking, it follows, that these signs of the emotions ihould be less ftrongly characterised in the former article than in the latter. Again, as several of tliese tones of expression are in themselves agreeable to the mind, and raise in us agree-able emotions (as those of
pity, benevolence,
or whatever indicates
happiness,
and
goodnefs
of heart), and others disagreeable (as those of a
boiflerous, malevolent,
and
depraved
nature, &c.) it farther appears, since reading is an art
improving
and not
imitating
nature, that, in what-ever degree we abate the expressions of the tones above alluded to in the sirst case, it would be eligible to make a greater abatement in the latter. But as to the quantities and proportional magnitudes of these abate-ments, they, like many other particulars of the same nature, must be left solely to the taste and judgment of the reader.
To add one more remark, which may be of service on more accounts than in suggesting another reason for the doctrine above. Let it be remembered, that tho’ in order to acquit himself agreeably in this article of expression, it will be neceffary every reader ihould
feel 
his subject as well as
underjland
it ; yet, that he may preserve a proper ease and mafterliness of delivery, it is also neceffary he ssiould guard againft discovering too much emotion and perturbation.
From this reasoning we deduce the following rule, for the tones which indicate the passions and emotions*
" In reading, let all your tones of expression be bor-rowed from those of common speech, but something more faintly characterised. Let those tones which signify any disagreeable passion of the mind, be still more faint than those which indicate their contrary ; and pre-serve yourself so far from being affected with the fub-ject, as to be able to proceed through it with that peculiar kind of ease and masterlinefs, which has its charms in this as well as every other art.”
we ssiall conclude this section with the following ob-servation, which relates to speaking as well as reading, when words fall in our way, whose " founds seem an echo to the sense,” as
squirr, buzz, hum, rattle, hfs,jar, 
&c. we ought not to pronounce them in such a manner as to heighten the imitation, except in light and ludicrous subjects. For inftance, they ssiould not in any other case be founded
squir.r.r—buzz.z.z—hum.m.m— r.r.rattle,
&c. Οη the contrary, when the imitation lies in the
movement,
or
flow andflrufiure of a whole passage
(which frequently happens in poetry), the delivery may always be allowed to give a heightening to it with the greatest propriety ; as in the following instances, out of a number more which every experienced reader will .quickly recollect.
In these deep folitudes and awful cells,
Where heav’ nly-penfive Contemplation dwells, .
And ever-mufing Melancholy reigns-—
Pope's Eloisa to Abelard.
with eafy courfe
The veffels glide, unless their speed be stopp’d
J¾,
dead calms, that ost Ue on these smooth seas.
Dyer’s Fleece.
Softly sweet in Lydian measure,
Soon he sooth’d her soul to pleasure.
Dryden’s Ode on St Cecilia’s day.
Still gathering force it smokes, and, urg’d amain, whirls, leaps, and
thunders down impetuous to the plain.
Pope’s Iliad,
B. 13. For who to dumb forgetfulness a prey,
This pleasing anxious being ere refign'd,
Left the warm precincts of the cheerful day,
Nor cast
one longing ling’ring look behind ?
Grey’s Elegy.
2. Besides the particular tones and modifications of voice above described, which always accompany and express our inward agitations, nature has in these cases endowed us with another language, which, instead of the ear, addreffes itself to the eye, thereby giving the communications of the heart a double advantage over thofe of the understanding, and
us
a double chance to preserve fo inestirnable a blessing. This language is what arises from the different, almost involuntary movements and configurations of the face and body in our emotions and passions, and which, like that' of tones, every one is formed to understand by a kind of intuition.
when men are in any violent agitation of mind, this co-operating
expresfion
(as it is called) of face and
gesture
is very strongly marked, and totally free from the mixture of any thing which has a regard to gracefulnefs, or what appearance they may make in the eyes of others. But in ordinary conversation, and where the emotions are not fo warm, fassiionable people are perpe-tually infinuatshg, into their countenance and action, whatever they imagine will add to the ease and elegance of their deportment, or impress on the spectator an idea of their amiableness and breeding. Now, though the above-mentioned natural organical figns of the emotions should accompany every thing fpoken, yet from what was observed in the introductory part of this article (like the tones we have just-treated upon), they should in reading he much less strongly expreffed, and those fuffer the greatest diminution that are in themfeives the most ungainly. And as it was in the last section re-commended tβ the reader to preserve himself as far from being affected in all passionate subjects as to be able to keep a temperate command over the various affections os the voice, &c. fo under the sanction
of
this subor-dinate feeling he may accompany his delivery more frequently with any easy action or change of face, which will contribute to set off his manner, and make it agree-able on the principles of art.
As these calm decorations os action (as we may call them) are not altogether natural, but have their rife srom a kind of inttitution, they must be modelled by the practices of the polite. And though mankind differ from one another scarce more in any particular than in that of talents for adopting the graceful actions of the body, and hence nothing determinate can be said of their nature and frequency, yet even those, most happily calculated to acquit themfelves well in their use, might profit by confidering that it is better greatly to abridge the display, than to over-do it ever fo little; For the peculiar modesty of deportment with which the inhabitants of this kingdom are endowed, makes us in common endeavour to suppress many figns of an agitated mind ; and in such cases the bodily ones in par-tic ular are very sparingly used. we have alfo a natural 
and rooted
dislike to any kind of affectation ; and to no
spectes, that we can recollect, a greater, than to that which is seen
in a
perfon who pretends to mimicry and courtly gesture, without poffeffing the advantages and talents they require ; and of which not many people, comparatively fpeaking, have any remarkable ssiare.
The inference of this is too obvious to need drawing out, aud we would particularly recommend it to tlie consideration of thofe readers who think the common occuπ∙mces of a newspaper, &c. cannot be properly delivered without a good deal of elbow-room
Although it is impossible to come to particulars in any directions of this kind, yet there is one article of our present snbject on which a serviceable remark may be made. Iu ordinary difcourse, when we are parti-cularly pressing and earnest in what we say, the eye is naturally thrown upon those to whom we address our-selves : And in reading, a turn of this organ now and then upon the hearers, when any thing-very remark-able or interesting falls in the way, has a good effect in gaining it a proper attention, &c. But this ssiould not be too frequently used ; for iffo, befides its having a tendency to confound the natural importance of different paffages, it may not be altogether agreeable to some to have their own reflections broken in upon by a signal, which might be interpreted to hint at their wanting regulation.
o∏e observation more, and then we ssiall attempt to recapitulate the substance of this section in the form of a precept. Though it is, when strictly examined, inconfistent, both in speaking and reading, to imitate with action what we are describing, yet as in any thing 
comic
such a practice may suggest ideas that will
accord
with thofe os the subject, it may there be now and then indulged in either of these articles.
“ In a manner similar to that directed with regard to tones, moderate your bodily expressions of the signs of the emotions. And in order to fupply, as it were, this deficiency, introduce into your carriage such an easy gracefulnefs, as may be confistent with your acquirements in thefe particulars, and the neceffary dread which ssiould ever be present of falling into any kind of affectation or grimace.”
V.
Paufes.
Speech consisting of a succession os di-stinct words, must naturally be liable (both from a kind of accident, and a difficulty there may be in be-g’fining certain founds or portions of phrases immediately on the ending of certain others) to feveral fmalΓ intermissions of voice ; of which, as they can have no meaning, nothing farther need here be said. There are, however, some pauses, which the sense neceffarily de-mands ; and to these the substance of this section is di-τected.
The panics are in part to distinguissi the members of sentences from one another, the terminations of complete periods, and to afford an opportunity for taking breath. Besides this, they have a very graceful effect in the modulation, on the fame account they are so effential in music.—In both articles, like blank fpaces in pictures, they set off and render more conspicuous what-foever they disjoin or terminate.
were language made up of nothing but ssiort collo-quial sentences, these paufes, though they might do no harm, and would generally be graceful, would however be superseded as to use by the completeness and
nar-rownefs,
as we may say, of the meaning. But in more diffuse language, compofed of several detached sentences, and which require fome degree of attention in order to take in the senfe, the intermissions of voice under consideration are of the greatest service, by sig-nifying to the mind the progrefs and completion of the whole paffage. Now, though in extensive and differently formed periods there may be members whose completeness of fense might be conceived of various degrees, aud hence might seem to require
a
set of pauses equally numerous ; yet, since the sense does not altogether depend upon these intermissions, and their ratios to one another, if capable of being properly defined, could 'not be accurately observed, grammarians have ventured to conceive the whole class of pauses as reducible to the four or five kinds now in ufe, and whose marks and ratios are well known (g) ; prefu-∙ ming that under the eye of taste ; and with the assist-ance of a particular to be next mentioned, they would not fail in all cafes to suggest intermissions of voice suitable to the senfe. But in many of these extenfive and complex periods, rounded with a kind of redundancy of matter, where the full sense is long suspended, and the final words are not very important, there would be fome hazard of a misapprehenfion of the termina-tion, had we not more evident and infallible notice of it than that which is given by the paufe. This notice is the
cadence,
referred to in the section on
Modulation ;
which, as is there observed, befides the orna-mental variety it affords, appears from these remarks to be a very neceffary and serviceable article in perspi-cuous delivery.
As this cadence naturally accompanies the end of every entire senfe, circumftanced as above-mentioned, it may sometimes fall hefo∙re the
semicolon,
but morè generally before the
colon,
as well as the period : For these marks are often found to terminate a complete sense ; and in these cafes, the relation what follows has to what went before, is lignified to the mind by the relative ssiortnefs of the stop, and the form of introducing the additional matter. Nor can any bad conse-
(g)
Supposing the
comma
(,) one
time,
the
semicolon
(;) will be two ; the
colon
(:) three, and the
period (.) 
>2S also the marks of
interrogation
(?) and
admiration
(!) four of these times. The blank line ( — or —), and the
breaks
between
paragraphs,
intimate still greater times ; and by the same analogy may be reckoned a double and quadruple period refpectively. Now and then these blank lines are placed immediately
after
the ordinary points, and then they are conceived only as separating sor the ¢y? the different.natures of the matter ;—as
.a 
question from an answer,—precept from example,—premises from inferences, &c. in which case their import is evident. Bπt of late some authors have not fcrupled to confound these distinctions ; and to make a blank serve for all the pauses universally, or the mark of an indefinite rest, the quantity of which is left to the determination of the reader’s taste. A practice, it. is imagined, too destructive of the intended precision of thefe typical notices to be much longer adopted.
qttence arise from thus founding distinctions
on
ratios of time, which it may be said are too nice to be often rightly hit upon : for if a confusion should happen between that of the
colon
and
period,
there is perhaps fo trifling a difference between the nature of the paffages they succeed, as to make a small inaccuracy of no con-sequence. And as to the rests of the semicolon and period, it will not be easy to mistake about them, as their, ratio is that of two to one. Add to this the power which the matter and introduction of-the sub-sequent paffages have to rectify any flight errδr here made, and we shall be fully satissied, that the pauses as usually explained, with the cadence above defcribed, and a proper knowledge of the language, will convey fufficient information to the understanding of the con-structive nature of the paffages after which they are found.
It may be observed, that in natural fpeech, accord-ing to the warmth and agitation of the speaker, the rests are often short and injudiciously proportioned, and hence that eveιy thing thus delivered cannot be so grace-ful as it might have been from a proper attention to their magnitude and effects.
Pauses then, though chiefly subjected to the sense, are, as was remarked at the outset, serviceable in beautifying the modulation, &c.—And since books are often inaccurately printed as to points, and peo-ple’s tastes differ fome little about their place and va-Iue, it appears, that, " although in reading great attention should be paid to the stops, yet a greater ihould be given to the sense, and their corespondent times occafionally lengthened beyond what is usual in common speech which observation contains all that we shall pretend to lay down by way of rule for the management of pauses in the delivery of written lan
guage.
As there are two or three species of writing, which have something singular in them, and with regard to the manner in which they should be read, a few
particular
remarks seem neceffarily required, we shall con-clude this article with laying them before the reader :
1.    
of
Plays,
and such like
conversation-pièces. 
Writings of this kind maybe considered as intended for two different purposes ; one to unfold subject matter for the exercife of theatric powers ; and the other to convey amusement, merely as fable replete with pleasing incidents and characteristic maimers. Hence there appears to be great latitude for the display of a
consflent
delivery of these performances : for while, on one hand, a good reader of very inferior talents for mimicry may be heard with a tolerable degree of pleasure ; on the other, if any person is qualified to give a higher degree of life and force to the dialogue and characters by delivering them as an actor, he must be fully at liberty to start from the confinement of a chair to a posture and area more suit-ed to his abilities ; and, if he be not deceived in himself,
his hearers will be considerable gainers by the change._
The next article is,
2.    
Sermons
or other
orations,
which in like man-tier may be conceived intended for a double purpose. First, as matter for the display of oratorical powers ; aιwl, secondly, as persuasive discourses, &c. which may be read like any other book. Therefore it appears (for reasons similar to those above) that according as clergymen are poffeffed of the talents
of elocution,
they may consistently either rehearse their fermons, in
the 
manner of an extemporary harangue, or deliver them in the more humble capacity of one -who is content to entertain and instruct his hearers with reading to them his own or some other person’s written discourse.
Ί hat either of these manners of delivery (or a mixture of them), in either of the cafes above-mentioned, is agreeable, we find on a careful exa. sination. For this will show us how frequently they run into one another; and that we are so far from thinking such transitions wrong, that, without a particular attention that way, we fcarce ever perceive them at all.
3.
Poetry
is the next and last object of our prefent remarks. This is a very peculiar kind of writing, and as much different from the language of ordinary difcourse as the movements of the dance are from common w..i k-ing. 1 o ornament and improve whatever is subfervient to the pleasures and amufements of life, is the delight of human nature, we are alfo pleased with a kind o£ 
excefi.
in any thing which has a power to amuse the fart-cy, inspire us with enthusiasm, or awaken the soul to
3 
consciousness of its own importance and dignity. Hence one pleasure, at leaft, takes its rise, that we feel in con-templating the performances of every art ; and hence the language", of poetry, consisting of a measured ryth-mus, harmonious cadences, and an elevated picturesqn¢ diction, has been studied by the ingenious, and found to have a powerful influence over the human breast
in 
every age and region. There is such an affinity between this language and music, that they were in the earlier ages never separated; and though modern refinement has in a great measure destroyed this union, yet it
is 
with fome degree of difficulty in rehearfing thefe divine compofitions we can forget tlie finging of the muse.
From these confiderations (and some kindred ones mentioned in sect. iii.) in repeating verses, they are ge-nerally accompanied with a modulation rather more or-namented and mufical than is used in any other kind of writing. And accordingly, as there seems to bc the greatest propriety in the practice, the rule for this par-ticular in the section just referred to, will allow any lati∙> tude in it that can gain the sanction of taste and pleasure.
Rhymes
in the lighter and more soothing provinces of poetry are found to have
a
good effect ; and hence (for reasons like those just suggested) it is certainly absurd to endeavour to {mother them by a feeble pro* nuπciation, and running one line precipitately into another, as is often affected to be done by many of our
mo
dern readers and speakers. By this method they not on» ly deftroy one source of pleasure intended by the com-poser (which though not great is nevertheless genuine), but even often supply its place with what is really disa-greeable, by making the rhymes, as they are interruptedly perceived, appear accidental blemishes of a different style, arifing from an unmeaning recurrence of fimilar founds, with regard then to reading verses terminated with rhyme, the common rule, which directs to prδ-nounce the final words
full,
and to distinguish them by a flight pause even where there is none required by the fen le, seems the most rational, and consequently most worthy, of being followed. See
Declamation, Na&-
RAτi0N,and
oratory.
Reading,
a town of Berkshire in England, plea·* santly seated on the river Kenneth, near the confluence with the Thames, it had onc≤ a siae rich monastery,
of which
there are large ruins remaining» It had alfo a’ castle built by king Henry I. but it was afterwards le-velled with the ground. It is a corporation, enjoys se-veral privileges, and fends two members to parliament. The two navigable rivers render it a fit place for trade. 
W.
Long. ί. ο. N. Lat. 5,1. 25.
READINGS, or
Various Readings,
in criticism, are the different manner os reading the texts of authors in ancient manuscripts, where a diversity has arisen from the corruption of time,, or the ignorance of cς>pyifts. 
À
great part of the business of critics lies in settling the' readings by confronting the various readings of the several manuscripts, and considering the agreement of the words and fenfç.
Readings
are also used sor a fort of commentary or glçfs on. a law, text, passage, or the like, to show the fçnfe an author takes it in, and the application he con-¢eives to be made of it,
RE-AGQRAVATION, in tbe Romish ecclesiasti-pal law, the last monitory, published after three admo-nitions, and be⅞re the last excommunication. Before they proceed to fulminate the last excommunication, they pfiblish an aggravation, and a re-aggravation. Fevret obferves, that in France the minister is not allowed to pome to re-aggravation, without the permission of the bishop or official, as well as that of the lay judgei See 
J⅛POM MUNI CATION.
REAL (Cæfar vichard de St), a polite French writer, son of a counsellor to the senate of Chamberry in Savoy. He came young to France, distinguished himself at Paris by several ingenious productions, and resided there a long time without title or dignity, intent upoq literary pursuits. He died at Chamberry in i(392, advanced in years, though not in circumstances. ⅜ie was a man of great parts and penetration, a lover of the sciences, and particularly fond of history. A •complete edition of his works was printed at Paris, iii 
3
vols 4ιo, 1745, and another in 6 vols 12mo.
Real Presence.
See Tran substantiation.
REALGAR. See Chemistry, n0 1279. e REALISTS, a sect of school-philosophers formed
jya opposition to the nominalists. Under the Realists are included the Scotists, Thomists, and all except-.jhg the followers of ocham. Their distingnishing te-îièt is, that universals are realities, and have an actual existence out of an idea or imagination; of, as they express it in the. schools, a
parte Hi ;
whereas the rbminalists contend, that they exist only in the mind, and are only ideas, or manners of conceiving things.— Dr odo, or Cudard, a native of orleans, afterwards abbot of St Martin dé Tournay, was the chief of the sect of the realists. He wrote three books of dialec-+ tics, wn’ere, on the principles of'Boethius and the an-.cients, he maintained that the object of that art is j things, not words ; whence the sect took its rise and ,pame.
REALITY, in the schools, a diminutive of
res,
. '" thing,” f rst used by the Scotists, to dénote a thing which may exist of itself ; or which has a full and abso-h.te being of itself, and is not consid’ered as a part of
any other.
REALM, a country which gives its head or.gover-πor. the denomination of
a king.
RE-ANIM ATI ON means the reviving or restoring ' to life thofe wlio are apparently dead. Sudden death is
dreaded
hy every human
being, and it rs one
'βf
those
evils against which the Church of England prays in her Litany. Accidents, however, cannot always bfe
pre* 
vented ; but, after they have happened, it is often poffi-ble to prevent their effects. This by the establishment 
of
what with great propriety has been called the
Humane Society,
has been abundantly proved : for, in thc course of 12 years immediately after their institution, they were the means of saving the lives of 850 per» sons, who otherwife would in all human probability have been lost to the community. Since that period, they have saved many more ; and various perfons, even in the most distant parts of the kingdom, by following their directions, have done the fame-' To preserve one human being from premature death, we must consider 
as
of the utmost consequence both as citizens and? Christians ; how much more, the preservation of thou-sands. It appears from the writings of Doctors Mead, window, Bruhier, Fothergill,. Haller, Lecat, Tiffot, van Engelen, Gummer, and others, that they had prepared the way for institutions similar to the Humane Society : for in their works they have elucidated the principles on which they go, and furnished directions for the practice they favour.' See Death,
Premature INTEKMKNT,
and Drowning.
REAR, a term frequently used in composition,. to denote something behind, or backwards, in respect
of 
another ; in opposition to
van.
Rear os an Λrmv,
signssies, in general, the hinder-most part of an army, battalion, regiment, or squadron 5 also the ground behind either.
∖JBF.AR-Guard,
is that body of an array which marches ■after the main-body ; for the march of an army is always composed of an advance-guard, a main-body,· and a rear-guard ; the sirst and last commanded by a general. The old grand-guards of the Gamp always form the rear-guard of the army, and are to see that every thing come Lfe to the new camp.
Rear Half-files,
are the three hshdmost ranks of
the
battalion, when it is drawn up six deep
REAR-Line,
of an army encamped, is always 1200 feet at least from the centre line ; both of which run parallel to the front line, as also to the reserve.
R EAR-Rank,
is the last rank of a battalion, when drawn up, and gener lly 16 or 18 feet from tlie centre-line when drawn in open order.
REAS0N, a f ιculty or power of the mind, where-by it distinguishes good from evil, truth from falfehood. See Metaphysics.
REASONING, ratiocination, the exercife of that faculty of the mind called
reafbn ;
or it is an act or operation of the mind, deducing some unknown pro-pυfιtion from other previous ones that are evident and known. See Logic, Part III.
REAUMUR (Rene Antoine Ferchault, Sieur de),
a
person distinguished for his laborious τefearches into natural knowledge, was born at Rochelle in 1683, of
a 
family belonging to the law. After having sinished his early studies in the place of his birth, he began a course ' of philosophy at Poitiers, and of civil law at Bourges ; but soon relinquished the latter, to apply himself, according tαlιis taste, to mathematics, physics, and∙natu-ral history. Being come to Paris, he was received into thé Academy of Sciences in 1708. From that hour he wàs wholly employed
in.natural history, to
which his.in-
clination particularly led him, and his inquiries were not confined to any one part of it. His memoirs, his ob-servations, his discoveries on the formation of shells, spiders, muscles, the marine-flea, the berry which affords tbe purple colour, and on the cause of the n,umbnefs of the torpedo, excited the curiosity of the public, and early procured our author the character of an able, curious, and entertaining naturalist:. Filled with zeal for the welfare and advantage of soeiety, and the progress and perfection of arts, he endeavoured in all his τe-searches to promote the public good. We were indebt-ed to him for the difcovery of the Turquois mines in Languedoc. Fie also found out a substance, which is. used to give falfe stones a colour, which is obtained from a certain sish called in the French
dble
or
Ablete * 
on account of its whiteness, and which is the
Bleak
or 
Blay
of our writers fi. His experiments on the art of turning iron into steel obtained him a pension of 12,oco livres ; and this reward was be continued to the Academy to support the expence which might accrue in this art.
He continued his inquiries on the art of making tin andporcelain£, and endeavoured to render our thermome-ters more useful than those of former times : he composed a curious history of rivers where gold dust is found in F rance ; and gave so simple and easy a detail of the art of gathering this dust, that persons have been employed for that purpofe.
He alss made curious and important obfervations on tbe nature of flints, on the banks of fossil shells, from whence is obtained in Touraine an excellent manure for land ; as likewise on birds and their preiervation·, on their method of budding nests ; on infects ; and a great num-ber of other subjects, not less curious than useful.
He imagined at sirst, that a certain varnish would keep eggs fresh ; but the waste of time and money, &c. showed him the.inconveniences of such a process. He afterwards adopted the method practised for time imme-morial in Greece and the islands of the Archipelago, which is to steep or immerse eggs in oil, or melted tat ; by this means, not being expofed to the air or to frost, they are well preserved, and contract no bad smell. An-other experiment still more important, made by our au-thor, was to introduce into France the art of hatching fowl and birds, as practised in Egypt, without covering the eggs. Active, sedulous, and attentive, he was ear-ly in his study, often at six in the morning. Exact in his experiments and obfervations, he let no circumftance efcape him. His writings must be of great use to future philosophers. In society, he was distinguished through life for his modest and agreeable behaviour. His probity, benevolence, goodnefs os heart, and other ami-able qualities, as well natural as acquired, endeared him to his countrymen. He di d in the 76th year of his age, on the 18th of october 1757, and left this world -filled with sentiments of piety. His death was the consequence of a fall, which happened at the castle of Barnardiere on the Maine, where he went to pafs his vacation. He bequeathed to the Academy of Sciences his manuscripts ajjd all his natural productions. His works are, 1. A very great number of memoirs and «bservations on different parts of natural history ; they are printed in the collections of the Academy of Sciences. ≤. A large work printed feparately in 6 vols in 4to, in-titled, A Natural History of Infects. This important
work contain? a defcription of vast numbers of câterpil-lers, moths⅛ gall infects, flies with two and four wings, lady-birds, and those ephεmeron flies which live only in that form a few hou∣∙s ; and lastly, of thofe singular and wonderful infects, which are called
polypes,
which being cut .into several pieces, each piece lives, grows, and be-comes an infect, and affords to our eyes a great number of prodigies*. The works of M. de Reaumur are exact, cui ious, interesting, and very ingenious. They are written with much candour, clearncss, and elegance ; but it must be ackowledged his manner is somewhat too dif-fuse. But we must not deceive the rçader; he often raises our expectations, and does' not give us all the sa-tisfaction we prdmise ourfelves from his writings. .Hιa method of raising poultry, in particular, rather disappoints us. He spared neither care, time, nor expence, to render it practicable : he flattered himself and his countrymen with the greatest hopes ; but notwithstasid-ing his assiduons industry, and vast charges, it proved abortive. The late M∙ l’Advocat recommended him tq obtain better information from Egypt on the suhject i j arid if possible to procure a person versed in the art to instruct him in it ; but his death prevented the completion of the scheme. If the native of Egypt had arrived, showed M. de. Reaumur a better method than his own, and practised it with success, as iu. his country, the community would have been benefited ; on the other hand, he would have seen, had it failed, that the climate of France was not proper for fuch experiments. M∙ Maillet, consul at Cairo, to whom Monsieur the re-gent had written to obtain the art, offered to send over a native of Egypt, if the government would pay the expence of his voyage, and allow him a penfion of 1500 livres. M. Maillet rightly judged, whey he preferred this method of proceeding. M. de Reaumur was not ignorant of the defign ; but he flattered himself, that his efforts would be successful without further aid, and thought he should acquire some honour. He certainly had great talents, industry, sagacity, and every other requisite which are necessary in such attempts ; but it is morally impossible that a fingle man, in a different, cli, mate, can attain such knowledge in an art as those who Live in a more favourable country, and have had the experience os. many ages to profit by : however M. dc Reaumur may have been unsuccesssul, posterity is in-debted to him sor his repeated trials. He has removed some difficulties in the road, and those that travel st may discover what he only saw at a distance.
REAUMURIA, in botany : A genus os the pen-tagynia order, belonging to the pentandria class of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under th¢
13th order,
Succulent#.
The calyx is hexaphyllous, and there are five petals ; the capsule is unilocular, quinque-valved, and polyspermous.
REBATE, or
Rebatement,
in commerce,
a
term much used at Amsterdam sor an abatement in the price os sevcral commodities, when the buyer, instead os ta-king time, advances ready money.
Rebatement,
in heraldry, a diminution or abate-ment, of the bearings in a coat of arms. See
Abatement.
REBELLION,
Rebellio,
among the Romans, was where those who had been formerly overcome in bat-tle, and yielded to their fubjection, made a second rς-sistance ; but with us it is generally used sor the taking
up
of arms traiterously againft the king, whether by na-tural subjects, or others when once subdued ; and the word
rebel
is sometimes applied to him who wilfully breaks a law ; alfo to a villein disobeying his lord.
There is a difference between enemies and rebels. Enemies are those who are out of the king’s allegiance: therefore fubjects of the king, either in open war, or rebellion, are not the king’s enemies, but traitors. And David Prince of λVales, who levied war againft Edw. I. because he was within the allegiance of the king, had sentence pronounced againft him as a traitor and rebel. Private persons may arm themselves to suppress rebels, enemies, &c.
REBELLIOUS
assembly,
is a gathering toge-fber ox twelve persons or more, intending or going a-bout to practise or put in use unlawfully, of their own authority, any thing to change the law or statutes of the realm ; or to destroy the inclosures of any ground, cr banks of any siih-pond, pool, or conduit, to the in-tent the same shall lie waste and void ; or to destroy the deer in any park, or any warren of conies, dove-houses, or fish in ponds ; or any house, barns, mills, or bays ; or to burn stacks of corn ; or abate rents, or prices of victuals, &c.
REBUS,an enigmatical representation of some name, &c. by using figures or pictures instead of words, or parts of words. Camden mentions an instance of this absurd kind of wit in a gallant who expreffed his love to a woman named
Rose Hill,
by painting in the bor-der of his gown a rose, a hill, an eye, a loaf, and a well ; which, in the ftyle of the rebus, reads, "
Rose Hill I iove well.’*
This kind of wit was long practised by the great, who took the pains to sind devices for their names. It was, however, happily ridiculed by Ben Johnson, in the humorous description of Abel Drug-ger’s device in the Alchemist ; by the Spectator, in the device of Jack of Newberry ; at which time the rebus, being raised to sign-posts, was grown out of fashion at court.
Rebus
is also used by the chemical writers fometimes to signify four milk, and sometimes for what they call the ultimate matter of which all bodies are composed.
Rebus,
in heraldry, a coat of arms which bears an allusion. to the name of the person ; as three castles, for Caftleton ; three cups, for Butler ; three conies, for Conisby; a kind of bearings which are of great antiquity.
REBUTTER (from the Fr.
lonter,
i. e.
repellere,
to put back or bar), is the answer of defendant to plain-tiff’s
surrejoinder ;
and plaintiff’s answer to the rebutter is called a
surrebutler :
but it is very rare the parties go so far in pleading.
Rebutter is alfo where a man by deed or fine grants ⅜o warranty any land or hereditament to another ; and the person making the warranty, or his heir, sues him to whom the warranty is made, or his heir or assignee, for the same thing ; if he who is so sued plead the deed or fine with warranty, and pray judgment, if the plain-tiff ihall be received to demand the thing which he ought to warrant to the party against the warranty in the deed, &c. this is called a
rebutter^
And if I grant to a tenant to hold without impeachment of waste, and after-wards implead him for waste done, he may debar me of 
this action by
shewing my grant, which
is a rebutter,,
RECAPITULATION,
is
a summary, or a con-
cis¢ and transient enumeration of the principal things insisted on in the preceding discourse, whereby the force of the whole is collected into one view. See
Oratory, 
n0 37 and 127,
RECEIPT, or
Receit,
in commerce, an acquit-tance,~or discharge, in writing, intimating that the par-ty has received a certain sum of money, either in full for the whole debt, or in part, or on account.
RECEIVER, in pneumatics, a glass veffel for containing the thing on which an experiment in the air-pump is to be made.
Receiver,
receptor
or
receptator,
in law, is commonly underftood in a bad sense, and used for such as know-ingly receive stolen goods from thieves, and conceal them. This crime is felony, and the punishment is transporta-tion for 14 years.
RECENS
10
was an account taken by the censors, every lustrum, of all the Roman people. It was a ge-neral survey, at which the equites, as well as the rest of the people, were to appear. New names were now put upon the censor’s list, and old ones cancelled. The 
recenjιo,
in short, was a more solemn and accurate fort of
probatio,
and answered the purpose of a review, by showing who were sit for military fervice»
RECEPTACULUM, in botany, one of the seven parts of fructification, defined by Linnaeus to be the base which connects or supports the other parts.
RecePîacvlum Chyli,
or
Pecquet’s Reservatory,
the reservoir or receptacle for the chyle, fituated in the left fide of the upper vertebra of the loins, under the aorta and the veffels of the left kidney.
RECHABITES, a kind of religious order among the ancient Jews, inftituted by Jonadab the fon of Re-chab, comprehending only his own family and posteri-ty. Their founder prescribed them three things : firft, not to drink any wine; fecondly, not to build any houses, but to dwell in tents ; and thirdly, not to sow any corn, or plant vines.
The Rechabites observed these rules with great strict-ness, as appears from Jer. xxxv.
6,
&c. whence St. Jerome, in his 13th epistle to Paulinus, calls them
mona-chi, monks.
Jonadab, their founder, lived under Jehoash,. king of Judah, contemporary with Jehu king of Israel; his father Rechab, from whom his posterity were denominated, defcended from Raguel or Jethro, father-in-law to Mofes, who was a Kenite, or of the race of Ken r whence Kenite and Rechabite are used as synonymous in Scripture.
RECHEAT, in hunting, a leffon which the hunts-man plays on the horn, when the hounds have loft their game, to call them back from pursuing a counter scent.
RECIPE, in medicine, a prescription, or remedy,
to
be taken by a patient : so called because always begin-ning with the word
recipe,
i. e.
take ;
which is generally denoted by the abbreviature &.
RECIPROCAL, in general, something that is mu-tual,
or
which is returned equally on both sides, or that affects both parties alike.
Reciprocal
Terms,
among logicians, are those which have the same signisication ; and consequently are con-· vertible, or may be used for each other.
Reciprocal» in mathematics, is applied to quanti.
ties which multiplied together produce unity.
Thus
-    and
x, y
and -, are reciprocal quantities. Likewise
χ    y
—    is said to be the reciprocal of
χi
which is again the re-
&
eiproca^ of —.
Reciprocal
Figures,
in geometry, those which have the antecedents and consequents of the same ratio in both figures.    _    .    .
Reciprocal
Proportion,
is when in four numbers the fourth is lefs than the second by so much as the third is greater than the sirst, and
vice versa.
See
Proportion 
and
Arithmetic,
chap. vi. Great use is made of this reciprocal proportion by Sir Isaac Newton and others, in demonstrating the laws of motion.
RECITAL, in law, means the rehearsal or making mention in a deed or writing of something which has been done before.
RECITATIVO, or
Recitative, πi
music, a kind of singing, that differs but little srom ordinary pronunciation ; such as that in which the feveral parts of the liturgy are rehearsed in cathedrals ; or that wherein the actors commonly deliver themselves on the theatre at the opera, when they are to express some action or passion ; to relate some event ; or reveal some design.
RECKENHAUSEN, a strong town of Cologne, in Germany, in the middle territory of that name. The abbess of its nunnery’ has power of punishing [offenders with death, and ssie alone is obliged to the vow of chaf-tity. .
RECKONING, or
a
Ship’s
Reckoning,
in navιga-tion, is that account whereby at any time it may be known where the ship is, and on what course or courses ssie is to steer, in order to gain her port ; and that ac-count taken from the log-board is called the
dead reckoning.
See
Navigation.
RECLAIMING, or
Reclaming,
in our ancient customs, a lord’s pursuing, prosecuting, and recalling, his vaffal, who had gone to live in another place without his permission.
Reclaiming is also used sor the demanding of a person, or thing, to be delivered up to the prince or state to which it properly belongs ; when, by any irregular means, it is Gome into another’s poffession.
Reclaiming,
in falconry, is taming ahawk, &c.and making her gentle and familiar.
A partridge is said to reclaim, when ssie calls her •young ones together, upon their scattering too much 
from her.
RECLINATION of a plane in dialling. See
Dialling.
RECLUSE, among the Papists, a person ssiut up in a small cell o£ an hermitage, or monastery, and cut 
eff,
not only srom all conversation with the world, but even with the house. This is a kind of voluntary im-prisonment, from a motive either of devotion or penance.
The word ia also applied to incontinent wives, whom their hushands procure to be thus kept in ptrpetual imprisonment in some religious house.
Recluses were anciently very numerous, They took an oath never to stir out of their retreat : and having entered it, the bishop set bis seal upon the door ; and the recluse was to have every thing ncceffary for the 
fupport of life conveyed to him through a window»
If
he was a priest,
he
was allowed a fmaπ oratory, with a window, which looked into the church, through which he might make his offerings at the mass, hear the sing-i∙ng, and answer those who spoke to him ; but this win-dow had curtains before it, so that he could not be seen. He was allowed a little garden, adjoining to his cell, in which he might plant a few herbs, and breathe a little freih air. Ifhe had disciples, their cells were contigu-ous to his, with only a window of communication, thro,  which they conveyed neceffaries to him, and received his inftructions. If a recluse fell sick, his door might be opened for persons to come in and assist him, but he himself was not to stir out.
RECOGNITION, in law, an acknowledgment ; a word particularly used in our law-books for the sirst chapter of the statute l Jac. I. by which the parliament acknowledged, that, after the death of queen Elisabeth, the crown had rightfully defcended to king James.
RECOGNIZANCE, in law, is an obligation of record, which a man enters into before some court os record or magistrate duly authoriscd, with condition to do some particular act ; as to appear at the assizes, to keep the peace, to pay a debt, or the like. It is in most respects like another bond : the difference being chiefly this, that the bond is the creation of a fresh debt or obligation
de novo,
the recognizance is an acknowledgment of a former debt upon record ; the form whereof is, " that A. B. doth acknowledge to owe to our lord the king, to the plaintiff, to C. D. or the like, the sum of ten pounds,” with condition to be void on performance of the thing ftipulated : in which case the king, the plaintiff, C. D. &c. is called the cognizee,
is cui cognofcitur ;
as he that enters into the recognizance is called the cognizor,
is qui cognojcit.
This being certified to, or taken by the officer of some court, is wit-neffed only by the record of that court, and not by the party’s seal : so that it is not in strict propriety a deed, though the effects of it are greater than a common obligation ; being allowed a priority in point of payment, and binding the lands of the cogniaor from the time of enrolment on record.
RECOIL, or
Rebound,
the starting backward of a fire-arm after an explosion. Mersennus tells us, that a cannon 12 feet in length, weighing 6400 lb. gives a ball of 24 lb. an uniform velocity of 640 feet
per
se-cond. Putting, therefore, W = 6400,
w
== 14, V =≈ 640, and
v —
the velocity with which the cannon recoils; we shall have (because the momentums of the cannon·
wV
and ball are equal) W
v
= w
V ; and so
v — -^r —
2 tX ^
∙- = 3,4.
ί that is, it would recoil at the rate of 6400 τ
2fiδ
feet
per
second, if free to move.
RECOLLECTION, a mode of thinking, hy which ideas fought after by the mind are found and brought to view.
RECONNOITRE, in military affairs, implies
to
view and examine the statc of things, in order to make a report thereof.
Parties ordered to reconnoitre· are to observe the country and the enemy ; to remark the routes, conve∙> niences, and inconveniences of the sirst ; the position, march, or forces of the second. In either case, they 
ihould have an expert geographer? capable cf taking
plans readily :
he
should be the best mounted of the whole, in case the enemy happen to scatter the cscorte, that he may save his works and ideas. See war.
R.ECORD, an authentic testimony in writing, con-tained in rolls of parchment, and preserved in a court of record. See Court.
Trial by Record,
a spectes of trial which is ufed only in one particular instance: and that is where a matter of record is pleaded in. any action, as a fine, a judgment, or the like ; and the opposite party pleads, 
nul tied record,
that thefe fis no fuch matter of record existing.. Upon this, issue is tendered and joined in the following form, " and this he prays may be inquired 
of
by the record, and the other doth the like and hereupon the party pleading the record has a day given him to bring it in, and proclamation is made in court for him to " bring forth the record by him in pleading alleged, or else he shall be condemned and, on his failure, his antagonist shall have judgment to recover. The trial, therefore, of this issue, is merely by the record : for, as Sir Edward Coke observes, a record or enrolment is a monument of so high· a nature, and im-porteth in itself snch absolute verity, that if st be pleaded that there is no fuch record, it shall not receive any trial by witness, jury, or otherwise, but only by itself. Thus titles of nobility, as whether earl or not earl, ba-ron or not baron, shall be tried by the king’s writ or patent only, which is matter of record. Also in case of an alien, whether alien friend or enemy, shall be tried by the league or treaty between his sovereign and ours; for every league or treaty is of record. And also, whether a manor be held in ancient demesne or not, shall be tried by the record of domefday in. the king’s exchequer.
RECORDER, a perfon whom the mayor and ether magistrates of a city or corporation associate to them, for their better direction in matters of justice and proceedings in law ; on which account this person is generally a counsellor, or other perfon well skilled in the law.
The recorder of London is chosen by the lord mayor and aldermen ; and as he is held to be the mouth of the city, delivers the judgment of the courts there-iu, and records and certifies the city-customs. See London, n0 38.
RECOVERY, or
Common
Recovery,
in English law, a species of assurance by matter of record ; concerning the original of which it must be remarked, that com-mon recoveries were invented by the ecclesiastics to elude the statutes of mortmain (see Tail) ; and after-wards encouraged by the sinesse of the courts of law in 
1
2 Edward IV. in order to put an end to all fettered iα-heritances, and bar not only estates-tail, but alfo all re-mainders and reversions expectant thereon, we have here, therefore, only to consider, sirst, the
nature
of a common recovery ; apd, secondly, its
force
and
effect.
I. A common recovery is a fuit or action, either ac-tual or fictitious : and in it the lands are recovered against the tenant of the freehold; which recovery, being a supposed abjudication of the right, binds all persons, and vests a free and absolute fee-simple in the recoverer. To explain this as clearly and concisely as possible, let us, in the sirst place, suppose David Edwards to be tenant of the freehold, and desirous to fusser a 
common recovery, in order to bar, 'alj entails, remain-
ders, and reversions, and to convey the fame in feessimple, to Francis Golding. To effect this, Golding is to bring an action against him for the lands ; and he accordingly sues out a writ called a
prœâpe quod reddat,
because these were its initial or most operative words when the law-proceedings were in Latin. In this writ the demand-ant Golding alleges, that the defendant Edwards (here called the tenant) has no legal title to the land ; but that he came into possession of it after one Hugh Hunt had turned the demandant out of it. The subsequent proceedings are made up into a record or recovery roll, in which the writ and complaint of the demandant are 
siist
recited : whereupon the tenant appears, and calls upon one Jacob Morland, who is supposed, at the ori-ginal purchase, to have warranted the title to the te-riant ; and thereupon he prays, that the said Jacob Morland may be called in to defend the title which he so warranted. This is called the
voucher,
<¢ vocatio,” or calling of Jacob Morland to warranty ; and Morland is called the
vouchee.
Upon this Jacob Morland, the vouchee, appears, is impleaded, and. defends the title, whereupon Golding the demandant desires leave of the court to imparl, or confer with the vouchee in private ; which is (as usual) allowed him. And soon afterwards the demandant Goldirtg returns to court ; but Morland the vouchee difappears, or makes default, whereupon judgment is given for the demandant Golding, now call·· ed the
recοvεrlr,
to recover the lands in question against the tenant Edwards, who is now the recoveree : and. Edwards has judgment to recover of Jacob Morland lands of· equal value, in recompense for the lands so warranted by him, and now lost by his default ; which is agreeable to the doctrine of warranty mentioned in the preceding chapter. This is called the
recompenfe, 
or
recovery-in value.
But Jacob Morland having no lands of his own,'being usually the crier of the cour£, who, from being frequently thus vouched, is called the 
common vouchee,
it is plain that Edwards has only
a 
nominal 'recompense for the lands so recovered against him by Golding ; which lands are now absolutely vest-ed in the said recoverer by judgment of law, and feiiin thereof is delivered by the sheriss of the county. So that this collusive recovery operates merely in the nature of a conveyance in fee-simple, from Edwards the tenant in tail to Golding the purchafer.
The recovery here described, is with a single vouch-er only;-'but sometimes it is with a double, treble, or farther voucher, as the exigency of the cale may require. And indeed it is now usual always to have a recovery with double voucher at the least : by sirst conveying an estate of freehold to any indifferent person, against whom the
pradpe
is brought ; and then he vouches the tenant in tail, who vouches over the common vouchee. For, if a recovery be had immediately against tenant in tail, it bars only such estate in the premises of which he 13 then actually seifed ; whereas if the recovery be had against another person, and the tenant in tail be vouched, it bars every latent right and interest which he may have in the" lands recovered. If Edwards therefore be tenant of the freehold in possession, and John Barker be tenant in tail in remainder, here Edwards doth sirst vouch Barker, and then Barker vouches Jacob Morland the common vouchee ; who is always the last person vouched, and always makes default ; whereby the de-
maπdant Golding recovers the
land against the tenant
Rdwards,-and.
Edwards
recovers a recompense
ef
equal value against Barker the first vouchee ; who recovers the like against Morland the common vouchee, against whom such ideal recovery in value is always ultimately awarded.
This supposed reeompense in value is the reason why the issue in tail is held to be barred by a common recovery. For, if the reeoveree should obtain a recom-pense in lands from the-common vouchee (which there is a possibility in contemplation of law, though a very improbable one, of hiε doing), these lands would sup-ply the place of those so recovered from him by co!lu-dsion, and would descend to the issue in tail. The reafon will alfo hold with equal force as to mest remainder-mien and reversioners, to whom the possibility will re-main land revert, as a full recompenfe for the reality which they were otherwise entitled to: but it will not always hold ; and therefore, as Pigott says, the judges have been even
ajluti,
in inventing other reasons to maintain the authority of recoveries. And, in par-ticular, it hath been said, that though the estate-tail is gone from the recoveree ; yet it is not destroyed, but only transferred, and still subsists ; and will ever con-tin ue to subsist (by construction of law) in the reco-veror, his heirs and assigns : and as the estate-tail fo continues to fubsist for ever, the remainders or reversions expectant on the determination of such estate-tail can never take place.
To ∙fiιch aukward shifts, such subtile refinements, and inch strafige reasoning, were our ancestors obliged to have recourse, in order to get the better of-that stub-born statute
de donis.
The design for which these contrivances were set on foot, was certainly laudable ; the tmrivetιing the fetters of estatestail, which were attended with a legion of mischiefs to the commonwealth: but, while we applaud the end, we cannot but admire the means, our modern courts of justice have indeed adopted a move manly way of treating the subject ; by eonsidering common recoveries, in no other light than as the formal mode of conveyance by which tenant in tail is enabled to aliene his lands. But, since the ill ■eonsequences of fettered inheritances are now generally feeai arid allowed, and of course the utility and expedience of fitting them at liberty are apparent, it hath often been wished that the process of this conveyance was shortened, and rendered less subject to niceties, by either totally repealing the statute
de donis ;
which per-haps,- by reviving the old doctrine of conditional fees, might give birth to many litigations : or by vesting in every tenant in tail, of full age, the fame absolute feessimple at once, which now he may obtain whenever •he pleafis, by the colhssive fiction of a common recovery ; though this might poffibly bear hard upon thofe ’ir. remainder or reversion, by abridging the chances they would otherwise frequently have, as no recovery can be suffered in the intervals between term and term,
. which sometimes continue for -near five months toge-ther : or, lastly, by empowering the tenant in tad.to bar the estate-tail by a solemn deed, to be made in term-time, and enrolled in some·court of.record ; which is liable to neither of the other objections, and is warranted not only- by .the usage of our American colonies, but by the precedent of the statute 21 Jac. I. c. ∣ 9 which, in the. cafi of !a bankrupt tenant in tail, empowers his commissioners tq fc4l the estate at any t4 iaey 
by
deed indented and enrolled. Aud if, in so national
a concern, th¢ emoluments of
the officers concerned in
passing recoveries are thought to be worthy attention, thofe might be provided for in the fees to be paid upon each enrollment.
2. The force and effect of common recoveries may appear, from what has been said, to be an absolute bar not only of all estates tail, but of remaindeιs and re-versions expectant on the determination of such estates. So that a tenant in tail may, by this method of assu-rance, convey the lands held iu tail to the recoverer, his heirs and affigns, absolutely free and discharged of all conditions and limitations· in tail, and of all remainders and reversions. But, by statute 34. & 35 H. VIIL c. 2c. no recovery had against tenant in tail of the king’s gift, whereof the. remainder or reversion is in the king, shall bar such estate-tail, or the remainder or reversion os the crown. And by the statute 11 H. VIL· c. 2c. no woman, after her huftand, 6 death, shall fuffer a recovery of lands fettled on her by her hushand, or fettled on her hushand and her by any of his ancestors-And by statute 14 Eliz. c. 8. no tenant for life, of any fort, can fiιffer a recovery fo a3 to bind them in remainder or reversion. For which reason, if there be tenant for life, with remainder in tail, and other remainders over, and the tenant for Iife is desirous to fnffer a valid recovery, either he, or the tenant to the
precipe
by him made, must vouch the remainder-man in tail, otherwise the recovery is void : but if he does vouch such remainder-man, and he appears and vouches the common vouchee, it is then good ; for if a man be vouched and appears, and suffers the recovery to be had, it is as effectual to ‘ bar the estate-tail as if he himfclf were the recoveree.
In all recoveries, it is necessary that the recoveree,. or tenant to the
prαcipe,
as he is ufiually called, be actually fiifid of the freehold, elfi the recovery is void. For all actions to recover the fiisin of lands must be brought against the actual tenant of the freehold, else the fuit will lose its effect ; since the freehold cannot be recovered of him who has it not. And, though these recoveries are in themfelves fabulous and fictitious, yet it is necessary that there be
actores 1αbui<ε.
properly qualified. But the nicety thought by some modern practitioners to.be requisite in conveying the legal freehold, in order to make a good tenant to the
pracipe, 
is removed bv the provisions of-the statute 14 Geo. IL c. 20. which enacts, with a retrospect and conformity to tlιe ancient rul¢ of law, that, though the legal freehold be vested in lessees, yet those who are entitled to the next freehold estate in remainder, or reversion, may make a good tenant to the
rrœcipe ;
and that, though the deed or fine which creates such tenant be fiιbie-quent to the judgment of recovery, yet is it be in the same term, the recovery shall be valid in law : and that though the recovery itfilf·do not appear to be entered, or be not regularly entered on record, yet the deed to make a tenant to the
prœàpe
and declare the uses of the recovery, shall after a possession of 20 years be sufficient evidence on behalf of a purchaser for valuable consideration, that such recovery was duly suffered.
Recover,v of persons drowned, or apparently dead See Re-am π ation, and the articles there referred to.
RECREANT, Cowardly,
Fuint-h earted;
formerly a word very reproachful. See Battel..
RECREMEN Γ, in chemistry, feme fμperfjupus matter fcparated from some other that is useful ; in·
whieh sense it is the same with
scoria, frees,
and
excre
ments.
RECRIMINATION, in law, an accusation brought by the accused against the accuser upon the fame fact.
RECRUITS, in military affairs, new-raifed foldier3 designed to supply the place of those who have lost their live3 in the service, or who are disabled by age or _ wounds.
RECTANGLE, in geometry, the same with
a
right-angled parallelogram. See
Geometry.
RECTIFICATION, in chemistry, is nothing but the repetition of a distillation or sublimation several times, in order to render the substance purer, finer, and freer from aqueous and earthy parts.
RεcτifιcAτιoN osSpirits.
See
Distillation.
RECTIFIER, in navigation, an instrument consist-ing of two parts, which are two circles, either laid one upon, or let into the other, and so fastened together in their centres, that they represent two compaffes, one fixed, the other moveable ; each of them divided into the 32 points of the compass, and 360o , and numbered both ways, from the north and the south, ending at the east and west, in 90c .
The fixed compass represents the horizon, in which the north and all the other points of the compass are fixed and immoveable.
The moveable compass represents the mariner’s com-pass ; in which- the north and all other points are liable to variation.
In the centre of the moveable compass is fastened.a filk thread, long enough to reach the outfide of the fixed compass. But if the instrument be made of wood, there is an index instead of the thread.
Its use is to find the variation of the compafs, to rectify the course at sea ; having the amplitude or azi-muth given.
RECTIFYING the
Globe.
See
Geography,
p.
656.
RECTILINEAR, in geometry, right-lined; thus figures whose perimeter consists of right lines, are said to be rectilinear.
RECTITUDE, in philosophy, refers either to the act of judging or of willing ; and therefore whatever comes under the denomination of rectitude, is either what is true or what is good, these being the only objects about which the mind exercises its two faculties <ff judging and willing.
Moral rectitude, or 'uprightnefs, is the choosing and pursuing those things which the mind, upon due inqui-ry and attention, clearly perceives to be good ; and avoiding those that are evil. See
Moral Philosophy.
RECTOR, a term applied to several persons whose offices are very different : as, 1. The rector of a parish is a clergyman that has the charge and cure of a parish, and possesses all the tithes, &c.    2. The same name is
alfo given to the chief elective officer in several foreign universities, particularly in that of Paris, and also. in those of Scotland. It is also applied to the head mas-ter of large sichools in Seotland, as in the high school of Edinburgh. 3. Rector is also used in several convents for the superior officer who governs the house : ιind the Jesuits give this name to the superiors of such of their houses as are either seminaries or colleges.
RECTORY, a parish-church, parsonage, or spiritual living, with all its rights, tithes, and glebes.
Rectory is also sometimes used for the rector*» mansion or parsonage-house.
RECTUM, in anatomy, the third and last of
the
large intestincs or guts. See
Anatomy,
nc ' 93.
RECTUS, in anatomy, a name common to several pairs of mufcles, so called on account of the straightness of their fibres.
RECUPERATORES, among the Romans, were commissioners appointed to take cognizance of private matters in dispute, between the subjects of the state and foreigners, and to take care that the former had justice done them. It came at last to be used sor com-rnissioners, to whom the prætor referred the determi-nation of any affair between one fubject and another.
RECURRENTS, in anatomy, a name given to se-veral large branches of nerves sent out by the par va-gum from the upper part of the thorax to the larynx,
RECURVIROSTRA, in ornithology ; a genus belonging to the order of grallæ of Linnaeus, and that of palmipedes of Pennant and Latham. The bill is long, subulated, bent back, sharp and flexible at the point. The feet are webbed, and furnished with three toes forwards, and a short one behind. Mr Latham notes of this genus three fpecies, viz. the Avofetta, or the one commonly known, the Americana, and the Alba. This last, it is probable, has some affinity to the -Americana. The recurvirostra avosetta is about the size of a lapwing in body, but has very long legs. The fubstance of the bill is foft, and almost membranous at its tip ; it is thin, weak, slender, compreffed horizontally, and incapable of defence or effort. Thefe birds are variegated with black and white, and during the win-ter are frequent on the eastern shores of Great Britain. They visit also the Severn, and sometimes the pools of Shropshire. They feed on worms and infects, which they scoop out of the fand with their bills. They lay two eggs, white, with a greenish hue, and large spots of black ; these eggs are about the size of a pigeon’s.— They are found also in various parts of the continent of Europe, in Russia, Denmark, and Sweden, but they are not numerous. They are also found in Siberia, but oftener about the salt lakes of the Tartarian desert, and aboutr the Caspian sea. They are found likewise on the coasts of Picardy in France in April and November, and at orleans, but rarely. In breeding-time they are very plentiful on the coasts of Bas Poictou. They do not appear to wander farther south in Europe than
Italy, whether from timidity or address, the avoset shuns snares, and is not easily taken. The American avoset is rather larger and longer than the last. The bill is similar, and its colour black : the forehead is dusky white : the head, neck, and upper part of the breast, arc of a deep cream-colour : the lower parts of the neck behind white : the back is black, and the uιf-der parts from the breast pure white : the wings are partly black, partly white, and partly ash-coloured. These birds inhabit North America, and were found by Dampier in Shark’s Bay, on the coast of New Holland. See Plate CCCCXXXV.
Tlie recurvirostra, or scolopax alba, is about 14 inches and a quarter long, its colour white, the inferior coverts of its wings duskish, its bill orange, its legs brown. Edwards remarks, that the bill of this bird is bent upwards, as in the avoset ; its bill black at the tip, and orange the rest of its length ; all the plumage is white,
except a
tint of yellowish on thc
great
quills of the wing and of the tail. Edwards supposes, that the whiteness is produced by the cold climate of Hudson’s Bay, from which he received it, and that they resume their brown feathers during the summer. It appears that several species of this bird have spread further into A-merica, and have even reached the fouthern provinces : for Sloane found our third species in Jamaica ; and Fernandez seems to indicate two of them in New Spain, by the names
chiquatototl
and
elototαtl ;
the former being like our woodcock, and the latter lodging under the stalks of maize.
A bird of this kind, Mr Latham says, was sent srom Hudson’s Bay, and from the figure, has every appear-ance of an avoset : however, in Edwards’s plate, the toes appear cloven to the bottom ; a circumstance seeming to overturn the fupposition, and only to be authen-ticated when other specimens shall have come under the eye of the well-informed naturalist.
RECUSANTS, such persons as acknow!edge the pope to be the supreme head of the church, and re-fuse to acknowledge the king’s supremacy ; who are hence called
Popish recufants.
The penal laws against Papists are now abolished in Britain and in Ireland ; and in all probability they will quickly be allowed the am· plest privileges.
RED, one of the colours called
fimple
or
primary :
being one of the shades into which the light naturally divides itselfwhen refracted through a prism. See C
h ro-matics∙
Red,
in dyeing, see that article.—Some reckon six kinds or casts of red, viz. fcarlet-rcd, crimson-red, mad-der-red, half-grain red, lively orange-red, and scarlet of cochineal : but it is easy to see that there can be but one proper species of red ; namely, the reflection of the light exactly in such a manner as it is refracted by the prisin ; all other shades being adulterations of that pure colour, with yellow, brown, &c.
Red,
in heraldry. See
Gules.
RKn-Bird.
See
Muscicapa,
n0 7.
Rρ∏-Breafi,
in ornithology. See
Motacilla.
RED-Sοok
of the exchequer, an ancient record or manuscript volume, in the keeping of the king’s re-membrancer, containing divers miscellany treatises re-lating to the times before the conquest.
RKû-Lead.
See
Chemistry,
no 1213.
RED Precipitate of Mercury.
See
Chemistry,
no 764·
REι>-Ruffa,
or
Little Rujfia,
a province of Poland, bounded on the west by Upper Poland, on the north by Lithuania, on the east by the country of the Little Tartars, and on the south by Moldavia, Transylvania, and a part of Hungary. It comprehends Russia pro-perly so called, volhinia, and Podolia. lt is about 650 miles in length, and from 150 to 250 in breadth. It consists chiefly of large fields, but little cultivated on account of the frequent inroads of the Tartars, and because there is no water-carriage. It had the name of
Red Rujfia,
from the colour of the hair of its inha-bitants. Ruffιar properly so called, comprehends the three palatinates of Leopol or Lemburg, Belsko, and Chelm.
RED Sea,
or
Arabic Gulph,
so much celebrated in sa-cred history, separates Arabia from Upper Ethiopia and part of Egypt. This sea is 350 leagues in length
and 40 in breadth. As no river falls into it of suffi-cient force to counteract the influence of the tide, it is more affected by the motions of the great ocean than any os the inland seas nearly in the same latitude. It is not much expofed to tempests : the winds usually blow from north to south, and being periodical, like the monsoons of India, invariably determine the feafon of foiling into or out of this sea. It is divided into two gulphs ; that to the east was called the
Ælanitic gulph, 
from the city Ælana at the north end of it ; and that to the west the
Heroopolitic,
from the city of Heroopo-lis ; the former of which belongs to Arabia, and the latter to Egypt.
Mr Bruce has made many observations on this sea, which are worthy of notice.—with regard to the name, he fays st was certainly derived from Edom or Efou the son of Jacob ; though in another place he fays, he wonders that writers have not rather fupposed it to have got the epithet of
Red,
from the colour of the fond on its coasts, than for other reasons they have alleged.
w
ith regard to any redness in the water itself, or in the bottom, which some have asserted, our travel-ler assures us that there is no such thing. It is more difficult to assign a reafon for the Hebrew name of
it, 
which signifies the
Sea of Weeds ;
as he never faw a weed throughout the whole extent of it. " Indeed, (says he) upon the slightest consideration, it will occur to any one, that a narrow gulph, under the immediate influence of the monsoons, blowing from contrary points six months each year, would have too much agi-tation to produce such vegetables, seldom found but in stagnant waters, and seldom, if ever, found in folt ones. My opinion then is, that it is from the large trees or plants of white coral, spread everywhere over the bottom of the Red Sea, perfectly in imitation of plants on land, that the fea has obtained this name.—I saw one of these, which, from a root nearly central, threw out ramifications of an almost circular form, measuring 26 feet every way.”
our author has also made many useful observations on the navigation of this sea. " All the western shore (he fays) is bold, and has more depth of water than the east; but on this fide there is neither anchoring ground nor shoals. It is rocky, with a considerable depth of water everywhere ; and there are a number of sunken rocks, which, though not visible, are sufficiently near the surface to destroy a large ship.” The cause of this, in Mr Bruce’s opinion, is, that the mountains on the side of Abyssinia and Egypt are all of hard stone, porphyry, many different kinds of marble, granite, ala-baster, and basaltes. Thefe being all composed of so-lid materials, therefore, can part with very little dust or fond, which might otherwise be blown from them into the sea. Οη the opposite coast, viz. that of He-jaz and Tahamah, on thc Arabian side, the whole con-sists of moving fonds ; a large quantity of which is blown from the south-east by the dry winter monsoons; which being lodged among the rocks on that side, and confined there by the north-east or summer monsoon, which is in a contrary direction, hinders them from coming over to the Egyptian fide. Hence the western coast is full of funk rocks for want of fond to cover them, with which they would otherwise become islands. They are naked and bare all round, with sharp points like spears ; while, on the east-side, every rock becomes
an island, and every two or three islands become an harbour. Οη the ends of the principal of these harbours the people have piled up great heaps of stones to serve as signals : " and it is in these (says Mr Bruce) that the large veffels from Cairo to Jidda, equal in size to our large 74 gun-shipe (but from the cisterns of ma-son-work built within for holding water, I suppose double their weight), after navigating their portion of the channel in the day-time, come safely and quietly to ut four o’clock in the afternoon ; and in these little harbours pass the night, to sail into the channel again next morning.”
The western channel of the Red Sea was chosen, in the days of the Ptolemies, for the track of the Indian and African. These monarchs erected a great number of cities all along the western coast ; and notwithstand-ing the dangers of the navigation, we do not hear that it was ever abandoned on account of them.
From the observations made by our author on the navigation of the Red Sea, he undertakes to point out a safe passage for large ships to the gulph of Suez, so that they may be able to judge of the propriety of their own course themselves, without trusting implicitly to the pilots they meet with, who are often very ignorant of their profession. This sea, according to Mr Bruce, may be divided into four parts, of which the channel ©ccupies two, till near the latitude of 26j , or that of Cossair. Οη the west it is deep water, with many recks ; and on the east it is full of islands, as has been already mentioned. Between these islands there are channels and harbours of deep water, where ships may be protected in any wind ; but a pilot is necessary io failing among these srom Mocha to Suez, and the voyage besides can be continued only during part of the day. Ships bound to Suez without the consent of the sherisse of Mecca, that is, without any intention of felling their cargo at Jidda, or paying custom there, ought to take in their fresh water at Mocha ; or it there be any reason against this, a few hours will carry them to Azab or Saba on the Abyffinian coast, where they may be plentifully supplied : but it must be remembered,
“ that the people here are
Galla,
the most treacherous and villanous wretches on earth.” Here not only •water may be procured, but plenty of sheep, goats, with some myrrh, and incense in the proper season.·— Great caution, however, must be used in dealing with the people, as even those of Mocha, who are absolutely necessary to them in their commercial dealings, cannot trust them without surety or hostages. Not many years ago, the surgeon and mate of the Elgin East India-man, with several other sailors, were murdered by these savages as they went ashore to purchase myrrh, though they had a letter of safe conduit from the shekh.
To such as do not want to be known, our author recommends a low black island on the coast of Arabia, named
Camaran,
in latitude 150 30'. It is distinguished by a white house or fortrefs on the west end of it ; where water is to be had in still greater plenty than at Azab ; but no provisions, or such only as are very bad, can be procured. If it is necessary not to be seen at
all on the coast, the island of Foosht is recommended by our author as having excellent water, with a saint or monk, whofe office is to keep the wells clean. This is one of the chain of islands which stretches almost across the gulph from Loheia to Masuah,
aad from ac
tual observation by Mr'Bruce,
is
found
to
be fituated in N. Lat. 150 59' 43 '. E. Long. 420 47'. From this to Yambo there is a sase watering-place ; and there is an absolute necessity for having a pilot before you come to Ras Mahomet ; because, over the Ælanitic gulph, the mountains of Aucha, and the Cape itself, there is often a thick haze which lasts for many days together, and a number of ships are lost by mistaking the eastern bay or Ælanitic gulph for the entrance of the gulph of Suez ? the former has a ridge of rocks nearly acrofs it. Aster reaching Sheduan, a large islancl, about three leagues farther in a north by west direction, there is a bare rock distinguished by no particular name ; but so situated that ships ought not to come within three leagues of it. This rock is to be left to the westward at the distance just mentioned ; after passing which you meet with shoals forming a pretty broad channel, with foundings from 15 to 30 fathoms; and again, on standing directly for Tor, there are two other oval sands with sunk rocks in the channel, between which you are to steer. Tor may be known at a distance by two hills that stand near the water side ; which, in clear weather, may be seen six leagues off. Just to the south-east of these is the town and harbour, where there are some palm-trees about the houses, the more remaιkable, as being the first that are seen on the coast. The foundings in the way to Tor harbour are clean and regular ; " and, by giving the beacon a small birth on the larboard hand, you may haul in a little to the northward, and anchor in five or fix fathom.” In spring-tides, it is high water at Tor nearly about 12 o’clock : in the middle of the gulph there is no perceptible tide, but at the sides it runs at the rate of more than two knots in the hour. Tor itself is but a small village, with a convent of monks belonging to those of Mount Sinai. It was taken by Don John de Castro, and fortified soon after its discovery by the Portugnese ; but has never since been a place of any confideration ; serving now only for a watering place to the ships trading to or from Suez.— From this place there is a distinct view of mounts Ho-reb and Sinai, which appear above and behind the others, with their tops frequently covered with snow in the winter.
Mr Bruce next proceeds to confider some questions which may be reckoned matters of curiofity rather than any thing else. Οηε of these is concerning the level of the water of this sea itself, which has been suppofed several feet above that of the Mediterranean. " To this (says our author) I answer, that the fact has been sup-posed to be so by antiquity, and alleged as a reason. why Ptolemy’s canal was made from the bottom of thc Heroopolitic gulph rather than brought due north across the isthmus of Suez ; in which last case it was feared it would submerge a great part of Afia Minor.. But who has ever attempted to verify this by experiment ? or who is capable of settling the difference of levels, amounting, as suppofed, to some feet and inches, between two points 120 miles distant from each other, over a desert that has no fettled surface, but is chan-ging its height every day ? Besides, since all seas are in fact but one, what is it that hinders the Indian ocean to flow to its level ? what is it that keeps the Indian ocean up ? Till this last branch of the question is resol-vcd, I shall take it for granted that
bo
such difference
rtf level exists, whatever Ptolemy’s cngineers might have pretended to him; because, to suppose it fact, is to sup-pose the violation of one very material law of nature.”
The next thing considered by our author is the passage of the Israelites through the Red Sea. At the place where he supposes the paffage to have been, the sea is not quite four leagues broad, so that it might ea-fily have been crossed in one night without any miracle. There is about 14 fathom water in the channel, and 9 at the sides, with good anchorage everywhere ; the far-thest side is a low fandy coast, and a very easy landing place. " The draught of the bottom of the gulph (fays he) given by Dr Pococke, is very erroneous in every part of it. It was proposed to Mr Niebuhr, when in Egypt, to inquire upon the fpot, whether there were not fome ridges of rocks where the water was shallow, fo that an army at particular times might pass over ? Secondly, whether the Etesian winds, which blow strongly all summer from the north-west, could not blow so violently against the fea, as to keep it back on a heap, so that the Israelites might have passed with-⅛>ut a miracle ? And a copy of these queries was left for me to join my inquiries likewise. But I must con-fess, however learned the gentlemen were who proposed these doubts, I did not think they merited any attention to solve them. If the Etesian winds, blowing from the north-west in summer, could heap up the fea as a wall on the right or to the south, of 50 feet high, still the difficulty would remain of building the wall on the left hand or to the north. Besides, water standing in that position for a day, must have lost the nature of a fluid, whence came that cohesion of particles that hindered that wall to efcape at the sides ? This is as great a miracle as that of Moses. If the Etesian winds had done this once, they must have repeated it many a time before and since, from the same caufes. Yet Dio-dorus Siculus says, the Troglodytes, the indigenous inhabitants of that very spot, had a tradition from father to son, from their very earliest and remotest ages, that once this division of the sea did happen there ; and that, after leaving the bottom some time dry, the sea again came back and covered it with great fury. I he words of this author are of the most remarkable kind, we cannot think this heathen is writing in favour of reve-lation. He knew not Mofes, nor says a word about Pharaoh and his host ; but records the miracle of the division of the sea in words nearly as strong as those of Moses, from the mouths of unbiassed undesigning pagans.”
R ED-Shank,
in ornithology. See Scolopax.
RED-Stari,
a species of Motacilla.
RKD-Wing.
SeeTuRDus.
REDANS, in field fortification. See the article Redens.
REDDENDUM, in law, is used substantively for the clause in a lease wherein the rent is reserved to the lessor. Tlre proper place sor it is next aster the limita-tion of estate.
REDDI ΓΙΟ, was the third part of the sacrifice of the heathens, and consisted of the solemn act of putting in again the entrails of the victims, after they had been religiously inspectcd. See Sacrifice.
REDDLE, a soft, heavy, red marle, of great use an colouring ; and being washed and freed from sand, 
is often fold by our druggists under the name of
lole armeηic.
REDEMPTION, in law, a faculty or right of reentering upon lands, &c. that have been fold and assigned, upon reimbursing the purchase-money with le-gal costs.
Redemption, in theology, denotes the recoveιy of mankind from sin and death, by the obedience and sacrifice of Christ, who on this account is called the
Redeemer os the world.
See Theology.
REDENS, Redans, or
Redant,
in fortification, a kind of work indented in form of the teeth of a saw, with saliant and re-entering angles ; to the end that one part may flank or defend another. It is likewise called 
saw-work
and
indented work.
The lines or faces in this flank one another.
Redens are used in fortifying walls, where it is not necessary to be at the expence of building bastions ; as when they stand on the side of a river running through a garrifon town, a marsh, the sea, &c. But the fault of such fortification is, that the befiegers from one battery may ruin both the sides of the tenaille or front of a place, and make an assault without fear of being enfiladed, since the defences are mined. The parapet of the corridor is likewise often redented or carried oa by the way of redens. The redens was ufed before bastions were invented, and fome people think them preferable.
RED I (Francis), an Italian physician and polite scholar, was born at Arezzo in Tuscany in 1626. Hie ingenuity and learning recommended him to the office of first physician to Ferdinand II. duke of Tuscany ; and he contributed not a little toward the compiling of the Dictionary of La Crufca. He wrote upon vipers, upon the generation of infects, and composed a good deal of poetry. All his writings are in Italian ; and his language is fo fine and pure, that the authors of the Dictionary of La Crufca have often cited them as stan-dards of perfection. He died in 1697.
REDOUBT, in fortification, a small square fort, without any defence but in front ; used in trenches, lines of circumvallation, contravallation, and approach ; as alfo for the lodgings of corps-de-gard, and to defend passages.
RE DUC ΓΙΟΝ, in the fchools, a manner of bring-ing a term or proposition, which was before opposite to some other, to be equivalent to it.
Reduction, in arithmetic, that rule whereby numbers of different denominations are brought into one de-nomination. See Arithmetic.
Reduction of Equations,
in algebra, is the clearing them from all superfluous quantities, bringing them to their lowest terms, and separating the known from the unknown, tiff at length only the unknown quantity is found on one side, and known ones on the other. The reduction of an equation is the last part of the refolu-tion of the problem. See Algebra.
Reduction of a figure, design, or draught, is the making a copy thereof, either larger or smaller than the original ; still preserving the form and proportion. The great use of the proportional compaffes is the reduction os figures, &c. whence they are called
co∣npafies os reduction.
See the article Compass.
There are various methods of reducing figures, &c.
the most .easy is by means of the pentagraph, or paral-klogram ; but this hath its defects. See the article
Pen-
TAGRAPH.
The best and most ufual methods of reduction are as follow: i. To reduce a figure, as ABCDE (n0 ι.), into a lefs compass. About the middle of the figure, as z, pitch on a point, and from this point draw lines to its feveral angles A, B, C, &c. then drawing the line
a b
parallel to AB,
b c
parallel to BC, &c. you will have the figure
αb e de
fimilar to ABCDE.
If the figure
abode
had been required to be enlarged, there needed nothing but to produce the lines from the point beyond the angles, as
z
D,
ζ
C, &c. and to draw lines, viz. DC, CB, &c. parallel to the sides
d c, cb, 
&c.
2.    To reduce a figure by the angle of proportion, suppofe the figure ABCDE (n0 2.) required to be diminished in the proportion of the line AB to
a b 
(n0 3.), draw the indefinite line GH (n0 4.), and frofn G to H set off the line AB. Οη G defcribe the arch HI. Set off the line
a b
as a chord on HI, and draw GI. Then with the angle IGH, you have all the meafures of the figure to be drawn. Thus to lay down the point
c,
take the interval BC, and upon the point G describe the arch KL. Also on the point G describe MN ; and upon A, with the distance MN, describe an arch cutting the preceding one in
c,
which will determine the fide
b c.
And after the same manner are the other sides and angles to be described. The same process will also serve to enlarge the figure.
3.    To reduce a figure by a scale. Measure all the fides of the figure, as ABCDE (n0
2.}
by a scale, and lay down the same meafures refpectively from a fmaller fcale in the proportion required.
4.    To reduce a map, defign, or figure, by squares. Divide the original into little fquares, and divide a fresh paper of the dimenfions required into the same number of squares, which are to be larger or less than the former, as the map is to be enlarged or diminished. This done in every square of the second figure, draw what you find in its correspondent one in the first.
Reduction,
in metallurgy, is the bringing back metalline fubstances which have been changed into fcoriæ or ashes, or· otherwise diverted of their metallic form, into their natural and original state of metals again. See
Metallurgy,
Ia Jfim >
and
Chemistry,
n0 140.. and 320.
Reduction,
in surgery, denotes an operation whereby a dislocated, luxated, or fractured bone, is restored to its former state or place.
REDUNDANCY, a fault in discourse, consisting in the use of a superfluity of words, words perfects ly fynonymous are redundant, and ought to be re-trenched.
REDUNDANT, in music. what the French' call
we accordfuperflue,
which we have translated
a redundant chord
in the article Music (from D’Alembert), has by others been rendered
a chord extremely sharp,
as in the translation of Rameau’s Principle? of Compofi-tion. Their nature will be best understood by a few examples, and an account of the number of tones, semi-tones, or lesser intervals, contained in each.
The
second redundant
is compofed of a major tone, and a minor semitone; as
from t ∕α to
fil
sharp. Its pro
portion is as 64 to 75«
The
third redundant
confists of two tones and a semitone, as
fa, la,
sharp. Its proportion is as 96 to 125.
The
fourth redundant
is the same with the tritone.
From these examples compared with the same inter-vals in their natural state, the reader may form a general idea of what is meant by
redundant.
REE,
Reis,
or
Res,
a little Portuguese coin. See
Money-Table.
REED, in botany. See
Arundo
and
Bamboo.
There are two forts of reeds, says Hasselquist, grow-ing near the Nile. Οηε of them has scarce any branches ; but is furnished with numerous leaves^ which are narrow, smooth, channelled on the upper sursace ; and the plant is about 11 feet high. The Egyptians make ropes ©f the leaves. They lay them in water like hemp, and then make them into good strong cables. These, with the bark of the date-tree, form almoit tlie only cable used in the Nile. The other fort is of great con-sequence. It is a small reed, about two or three feet high, full branched, with short, sharp, lancet-shaped leaves. The roots, which are as thick as the stem, creep and mat themselves together to a considerable dr-stance. This plant seems useless in common life : but to it, continues the learned author, is the very foil of Egypt owing : for the matted roots have stopped the earth which floated in the waters, and thus formed, out of the sea, a country that is habitable.
Fire-RKEDs.
See
FiRE-Ship.
Reed,
a term in the west of England for the straw used by thatchers, which is wheat straw finely combed, consisting of stiff, unbruised, and unbroken stalks of great length, carefully separated from the straw used for fodder by the thresher, and bound in sheaves or nitches, each of which weighs 28 lb. and are fold from 21 s. to 31 s. per hundred nitches, according to the season. This is a great improvement in the art of thatching, as it gives a finish to the work which- cannot be attained by straw, rough and tumbled together, without any separation of the long and short : it also is a readier mode of working.
REEF, a term in ∙ navigation, when there is a great gale of wind, they commonly roll up part of thc sail below, that by this means -it may become the narrower, and not draw so much wind 5 which contract- ■ ing or taking up the fail they call a
reef,
or
reefing the fail :
so also when ,a
top-mafi is fprung,
as they call it, that is, when it is cracked^ or almost broken in the cap·, they cut off the.lower piece that was near broken off, and setting the other part, now much shorter,- in the step again, they call it a
reefed top-mafi.
REEL, in the manufactories, a machine serving for·, the office of reeling. There aie various kinds of reels 5 some very simple, others very complex.
REELING, in the manufactories, the winding of silk, cotton, or the like, into a skain, or upon a button, to prevent its entangling. It is· also used for the changing or discharging of bobbins, or quills, to. use them in the manufacture of different stuffs, as thread, silk, cot-ton, &c. Reeling is performed in different ways, and on different engines.
REEVING, in the fea-language, the putting a rope through a block : hence to pull a rope out of a block is called
unreeving.
RE-EXCHANGE, in commerce, a second pay
ment
of the price of exchange, or rather the price of
a new exchange due upon a bill of exchange that comes to be protested, and to be refunded the bearer by the drawer or indorser.
REFECT ION, among ecclesiastics, a spare meal or repast, just sufficing for the support of life : hence the hall in convents, and other communities, where the monks, nuns, &c. take their refections or meals in com-mon, is called the
refectory.
REFERENCE, in writing, &c. a mark relative to another similar one in the margin, or at the bottom of the page, where something omitted in the text is added, and which is to be inferted either in reading or copy-⅛∙
REFINING, in general, is the art of purifying a thing ; including not only the effaying or refining of metals, but likewise the depuration or clarification of liquors. See Metallurgy, Part II. Clarification; and Pharmacy.
Gold and silver may be refined by several methods, which are all founded on the effential properties of these metals, and acquire different names according to their kinds. Thus, for instance, gold having the property which no other metal, not even filver, has of resisting the action of sulphur, of antimony, of nitrous acid, of marine acid; may be purified by these agents from all other metallic substances, and consequently may be re-fined. These operations are distinguished by proper names, as
purification os gold by antimony, parting, concentrated parting, dry parting *.
In a fimilar manner, as filver has the property, which the imperfect metals have not, of resisting the action of nitre, it may be refined by this salt : but the term
refining
is chiefly applied to the purification of gold and filver by lead in the cupel.
This is performed by the destruction, vitrification, and scorification, of all the extraneous and destructible metallic substances with which they are all allayed.
As none but the perfect metals can refill: tlie combined action of air and fire, without losing their inflammable principle, and being changed into earthy or vitreous matters, incapable of remaining any longer united with substances in a metallic state, there is then a possibility of purifying gold and silver from all allay of imperfect metals merely by the action of fire and air ; only by keeping them fused till all die allay be destroy-ed : but this purification would be very expensive, from the great consumption of fuel, and would be exceedingly tedious. Silver allayed with copper has been expofed longer than 60 hours to a glass-house fire -without being perfectly refined the reason of which is, that when a fmall quantity only of imperfect metal remains united with gold or filver, it is covered and protected from the action of the air, which is necessary for the combustion of the imperfect metals, as of all comhusti-ble matters.
This refining of gold'and silver merely by the action of fire·, which was the only method anciently known, was very long, difficult, expensive, and imperfect ; but a much shorter and more advantageous method has been discovered. This method consists in adding to the al-layed gold and silver a certain quantity of lead, and in expofing afterwards this mixture to the action of the sire. Lead is one of the metals which lofes most quickly and easily a sufficient quantity of its inflammable 
principle to cease te be in
a
metallic state·; butz at thς 
same time, this metal has the remarkable property of retaining, notwithstanding the action of the sire, enough of this same inflammable principle to be very easily melted into a vitrified and powerfully vitrifying matter, called
litharge.
The lead then which is to be added to the gold and silver to be refined, or which happens naturally to be mixed with these metals, produces in their refining the following advantages: 1. By increafing the proportion' of imperfect metals, it prevents them from being fo well covered and protected by the perfect metals.—-
2.
By uniting with these imperfect metals, it commu-nicates to them a property it has of lofing very easily a great part of its inflammable principle. 3. By its vitrifying and fufing property which it exereifes with all its force upon the calcined and naturally refractory parts of the other metals, it facilitates and accelerates the fusion, the scorisication, and thc separation of thefe metals. These are the advantages procured by lead in the refining of gold and silver.
The lead, which in this operation is scorified, and' fcorifies along with it the imperfect metals, separates -from the metallic mass, with which it is then incapable of remaining united. It floats upon the surface of the melted mass ; because, by losing part of its phlogis-ton, it lofes also part of its specific gravity, and lastly it vitrifies.
Thefe vitrified and melted 'matters accumulating more and more upon the surface of the metal while thc operation advances, would protect this surface from the contact of air which is so absolutely necessary for the scorification of the rest, and would thus stop the pro-gress of the operation, which could never be sinished, if a method had not been contrived for their removal. This removal of the vitrified matter is procured either by the nature of the vessel in which the melted matter is contained, and which being porous, absorbs and imbibes the scorified matter as fast as it is formed, or by a chan-, nel cut in the edge, of the vessel through which the matter flows out.
The vessel in which the refining is performed is flat* and shallow, that the matter which it contains may prefent to the air the greatest surface possible. This form resembles that of a cup, and hence it lias been called
cupel.
The furnace ought to be vaulted, that the heat may be applied upon the'sursace of the metal during thc whole time- of the operation. Upon this furface a crust of dark-coloured pellicle is continually forming. In the instant when all the imperfect metal is deftroyed> and consequently the scorification ceases, the surface of the perfect metals is seen, and appears clean and brilliant. This forms a kind of fulguration or corus-cation. By this mark the metal is known to be refinedt If the operation be so conducted that the metal sustains only the precise degree of heat necessary to keep it fused before it be perfectly refined, we may observe that it fixes or becomes solid all at once in the very in-stant of the eoruscation ; because a greater heat is re* quired to> keep silver or gold in fusion when they are pure than when allayed with lead.
Ί he operation of refining may be performed m finall or in large quantities, upon the fame principles, but only with some differences in the management. As the refining of final! quantities of perfect metals is perform
ed in the same maimer as these metals are
essay ed,· thé
essay being only a very accurate refining, we refer to the article
Essay of the Value of Silver.
Large quantities of silver are thus purified, after the operations by which that metal is obtained from its ores. This silver, being always much allayed, is to be mixed with a fufficient quantity of lead to complete its purification, unless lead has beer, added in its first susion from the ore, or unless it has been extracted from an ore which also contains lead ; in which latter case, it is allayed naturally with a sufficient quantity, or more than .sufficient, for the refining of it.
REFLECTIQN, the return or progreffive motion of a moving body, occasioned by some obstacle which hindered it from pursuing its former direction.
Circular Infirument of
Rerlpction,
an instrument for measuring angles to a very great degree of accuracy. It was invented by the celebrated astronomer Mr To-bias Mayer of Gottingen, principally with a view to do away the errors of the divisions of the limb ; and has fince been much improved by the Chevalier de Borda, and M J. H. de Magellan. This instrument is particularly applicable to the measuring of the distances of the heavenly bodies, and was ufed by the French in their part of the operation for determining the difference of meridians of Paris and Greenwich. For the description, rectification, and use of this instrument, see the article Navigation, and
Mackay on the Longitude, 
vυl.
i. p. 44.
REELECTION of the Rays of Light,
in catoptrics, is their return, after approaching fo near the surface of bodies as to be thereby repelled or driven backwards. For the caufes of reflection, see optics,
Index
at 
Rays of Light,
and
Reflection of Light,
&c. For the application os the doctrine of reflection to mirrors, fee Pptics, p. 347—349. See also Mirror,
Burning-
Glass,
and
Glafs-GRiKDiNG
; and for the
coating
or
foliating of
mirrors, see the article
Foliating of Lookiηg-glasfes,
&c. See also Telescope.
Reflection is also used, figuratively, for an operation
of
the mind, whereby it turns its view backwards as it were upon itself, and makes itself and its own ope-rations the object of its disquisition ; and by contem-ρiating the manner, order, and laws, which it observes in perceiving ideas, comparing them together, reasoning, &c. it frames new ideas of the relations discovered therein. See Metaphysics.
REFLEX,in painting, means thofe places in a picture which are supposed to be illuminated by light reflected from some other body in the same piece. See Painting, Part I. fect. 2. and
5.
REFLUX, the backward course of water, has the fame meaning as the ebbing of the sea, and is opposed to flood, flux, or the flowing of the sea. See Tides.
REFORM means a change from worse to better, a • re-establishment or revival of former neglected discipline, ©r a correction of abuses therein. The term is much ufed in a monastic fenfe for the reducing an order or congregation of religious to the ancient severity of the rule from which it had gradually swerved, or even sor improving on the ancient rule and institution itself, and voluntarily making it more severe. In this sense the order of St Bernard is said to be only a reform of that of St Benedict. In this country it is applied both to politics and religion, and may innocently bc applied to any endeavours to change an estabhshment from worse 
to better. But st appears at present to have been 
chiefly made a pretence for designs which could not fairly or safely be avowed.
A reform in religion and in parliament (fee Parliament) has, we know, been most loudly called for by men whofe religions notions are immensely different from what has been generally reckoned Christianity, and whose designs, as has been legally proved, went to the overthrow of all civil order. For infidious purposes like these, the word reform is a good cloak, especially if anything can be fixed upon, either in the religion or government of the state, which, with the help of exag-geration and distortion, can be represented to the weak and unthinking as extremely defective and erroneous.
The general error of these men seems to be, that ha-ving picked up a set of speculative notions which flatter their own pride and the pridς of those who listen to them, they will allow nothing to the arguments of their opponents or the experience of mankind. They think so often and fo much upon their ideal reforms, that while they imagine their notions are liberal and extensive, they become contracted beyond imagination; while their judgments, of course, are warped with the most inveterate prejudices (see Prejudice.) They see, or think they see, the propriety of their schemes ; but they seldom, perhaps never, reflect, that that may be true in speculation or in theory which cannot poffibly be redu-ced to practice. They will not take the world as it is, and allow it to profit by the wisdom and experience of ages ; but they will reform it according to those ideas of right which they have learned from their own fpecula-tions and airy theories ; seldom considering what may be done, they are determined to do what they think ought to be done. Liberty of confcience, and liberty of action, have been claimed by them as the unalienable rights of man ; and fo we ourfelves are difposed to think, them : nor have we heard that in this country they have been denied to any man, or set of men, so far as has been thought consistent with the safety of the state, and that of the other individuals who compofe it. At the same time, the very same men hesitate not to blame, with acrimony the most violent, and to the utmost of their power to restrain, the actions and opinions of those who with equal conviction, often on better grounds, and generally with more modesty, differ from them.
Amidst that exceffive ardour, too, with which they propagate their opinions, they forget the extreme dan-ger of withdrawing the attention of that part of the community, who must earn their bread by the sweat os their brow, from their proper occupations, to the tempestuous fea of political debate, for which their education and mode of Iife cannot possibly have qualified them. It requires but very little penetration, however, to be able to fee, that it can be of no real service either to the individuals themselves, or to the community at large, in whatever light we look upon it. Intleed, to make those the judges of the law, and the reformers of the legislature, who have all their lives been employed in manual labour, is the extreme of folly ; and yet it is what some men of considerable abilities, and from whom we had reason to expect better things, have more than once attempted. '1 he effect of such a mode of seduction (and it deserves no better name), when it shall become general, instead os serving the purposes of a real reform, must be to annihilate all civil ordcr. Dissa-
tisfaction is the most powerful check to honest industry ; and diffatisfaction and idleness must be the effect of the wanderings of such men in the labyrinths of politics ; which, for uncultivated minds efpεcially,paves the wayfor every species of vice, and gradually ripens them for any wickedness, however atrocious. For the truth of these re-marks, we appeal to the hiftory of mankind from theCrea∙ tion to the present time : and we would seriously request the
fiber friends of reform,
and many such, we doubt not, there are, to reflect, that in the present day we have more to fear from licentiousness than from despotism ; from reform carried to an extreme than from the pretended attempts either of kings or ministers to annihilate our real liberty (see Revolution).
It may also be worth their while to consider, that times of public danger are not generally the best adapted to attempt changes of government ; because what might satisfy one party would probably be thought too little by another, and divisions at such a period are most dangerous, when, therefore, attempts are made for reform which appear to be inconsistent with the safety of the state, reftriétions must be used, which may by specu-lative men be thought severe and unneceffary, but of which they themselves are the caufes. These re-strictions too will be patiently submitted to by the wiser part of the community, when in more peaceable times they would neither have been thought of nor allowed.
Speculative reasoners may speak as much as they will of enlightening the minds of men, and of reform-ing government by the dictates of a refined and diΓ-passionate philosophy ; but when they come to apply their notions to practice, they will either find their re-presentations little better than empty founds, and therefore ineffectual ; or, as is more generally found to be the case, those schemes which in theory appeared to be perfect, 'will in practice, when combined with the malignant and ambitious passions of men, lead to ruin and disorder. The sirst institution of government, except among the Jews, was unquestionably the effect of passion and intereft combined ; and this passion and this interest, restrained within due bounds, is productive of much happiness. That government, we believe, too, will be best supported, and most productive of happiness, in which the mutual passions and interests of the individuals who compose it are so equally poised as to support one another, and to promote each the ends and success of the other : and this by the ablest reasoners and the best men has been thought to be the case with the British constitution. If the modern favourers of reform should think this an unstable support, if they will consider the world as it ever has been, and as it isr  they will sind it the only one we have, except religion ; and they will thence be inclined to make the best of it. If, after all, however, they should be dispofed to doubt the position, we have only further to request them, with the sincerity of men and of Christians, to consult their own breasts, and serioufly to consider the probable motives of those who act with them. They will then perhaps see, and they surely ought to acknowledge, that few men have acted more according to the impulse of passion, interest, and ambition, than thofe who have for some time past founded the toczin of reform.
REFORMATION, in general, an act of reforming or correcting
an
error or abuse
in religion, disci-
pline, or the like. By way of eminence the word is used for that great alteration and reformation in the corrupted system of Christianity, begun by Luther in the year 1517.
Under the article History (fect. ii.), the various corruptions in religion, the oppressions and usurpations of the clergy, and the extreme insolence of the popes, have been so fully treated of, that any further detail here is unneceffary. It is sussicient to observe, that, before the period of the Reformation, the Pope had in the moft audacious manner declared himself the sovereign of the whole world. All the parts of it which were inhabited by those who were not Christians, he accounted to be inhabited by
no-body
; and if Christians took it into their heads to po∏efs any of those countries, he gave them fuff liberty to make war upon the inhabitants without any provocation, and to treat them with no more humanity than they would have treated wild beasts. The countries, if conquered, were to be parcelled out according to the pope’s pleasure ; and dread-ful was the situation of that prince who refused to obey the will of the holy pontiff, of which many inftances' will occur to the reader in the various historical articles of this work. In consequence of this extraordinary authority which the pope had affumed, he at last: granted to the king of Portugal all the countries to the east-ward of Cape Non in Africa, and to the king of Spain all the countries to the westward of it. In this, according to the opinions of some, was completed in his person the character of
Aηtichrifi fitting in tbe temple os God, andshewing himfids as God
*. He had long before, say they, affumed the fupremacy belonging to the Deity himself in spiritιιal matters ; and now he affumed the same supremacy in worldly matters also, giving the extreme regions of the earth to whom he pleased. The Reformation, therefore, they confider as the immediate effect of divine power taking vengeance on this and all other deviations from the system of truth while others consider it merely as an effect of natural causes, and which might have been foreseen and prevented, without abridging the papal power in any confiderable degree.
Be this as it will, however, the above-mentioned partition was the last piece of insolence which the pope ever had, or in all probability ever will have, in his power to exercise, in the way of parcelling out the globe to his adherents. Every thing was quiet, every heretic exterminated, and the whole Christian world fupinely acquiesced in the enormous absurdities which were inculcated upon them ; when, in 1517, the empire,of iuper-stition began to decline, and has continued to do so ever since. The perfon who made the first attack on the extravagant superstitions then prevailing was Martin Luther ; the occafion of which is fully related under tlie article Luther. By some it is pretended, that the Only motive which Luther had m beginning the Reformation was his enmity to the Dominican friars, who had excluded his order (the Augustins) from all share in the gainful traffic of indulgences. But this does not seem at all probable, if we consider that fuch a motive would not naturally have led him to deny the virtue cf indulgences, as such conduct could not but exclude him forever from any chance of a share in the traffic, which otherwise perhaps he might have obtained. Besides, the extreme contrariety of this traffic to the common principles of reason and honesty was so great, that we
cannot wonder at finding
one
man in thc world who had sense enough to discern it, and virtue enough to oppose such an infamous practice. In all probability, however, the insignificancy of the
fiist
reformer was the reason why he was not persecnted and exterminated at his first beginning, as others had been before him. Another reason probably might be, that he did not at once at-tack the whole errors of Popery, but brought about his reformation gradually, probably as it occurred to him-self, and as we have related in the account of his life.
The Reformation, began in the city of wittemberg in Saxony, but was not long confined either to that city or province. In 1520 the Franciscan friars, who had the care of promulgating indulgences in Switzer-land, were oppofed by 'Zuinglius, a man not inferior in understanding and knowledge to Luther himfelf. He proceeded with the greatest vigour, even at the very be-ginnshg, to overturn the whole fabric of Popery ; but his opinions were declared erroneous by the universities of Cologne and Louvain. Notwithstanding this, the magistrates of Zurich approved of his proceedings ; and that whole canton, together with those of Bern, Basil, and-Chassausen, embraced his opinions.
In Germany, Luther continued to make great ad-vances, without being in the least intimidated by the ecclesiastical censures which were thundered against him from all quarters, he being continually protected by the German princes either from religious or political mo-tives, so that his adversaries could not accomplish his destruction as they had done that of others. The princes, who were upon bad terms with the court of Rome, took advantage of the success of the new doctrines; and in their own dominions easily overturned a church which had lost all the respect and veneration of the inferior ranks. The court of Rome had disobliged some of the smaller princes in the north of Germany, whom the Pope probably thought too insignisicant to be worth the managing, and they universally established the Reformation in their own dominions. Melancthon, Car-lostadius, and other men of eminence, also greatly forwarded the work of Luther ; and in all probability the Popish hierarchy would have soon come to an end, in the northern parts of Europe at least, had not the emperor Charles V. given a fevere check to the progrefs of reformation in Germany. In order to follow out the schemes dictated by his ambition, he thought it necessary to ingratiate himself with the pope ; and the most effectual method of doing this was by destroying Luther. The Pope’s legates insisted that Luther ought to be condemned by the diet of worms without either trial or hearing ; as being a most notorious, avowed, and incorrigible heretic. However, this appeared unjust to the members of the diet, and he was summoned to appear ; which he accordingly did without hesitation *. There is not the least doubt that his appearance there had been his last in this world, had aot the astonishing respect that was paid him, and the crowds who came daily to see him, deterred his judges from delivering the church from the author of such a pestslent heresy ; which they were*strongly solicited by the pope’s party to do. He was therefore permitted to depart with a safe conduct sor a certain time ; after which he was in the state of a profcribed criminal, to whom it was unlawful to perform any of the offices of humanity.
During the confinement of Luther in a castle near
warburg, the Reformation advanced rapidly 5 almost every city in Saxony embracing the Lutheran opinions. At this time an alteration in the established forms of worship was first ventured uponatwktemberg,by abolish-ing the celebration of private maffes, and by giving the cup as well as the bread to the laity in the Lord’s flipper. In a short time, however, the new opinions were condemned by the univeistty of Paris, and a refutation of them was attempted by Henry VIII. of England. But Luther was not to be thus intimidated. He pub-hihed his animadverfions on both with as much acrimony as if he had been refuting the meanest adversary ; and a controverfy managed by such illustrious antagonists drew a general attention, and the Reformers daily gained new converts both in France alld England.
But while the efforts of Luthcr were thus everywhere crowned with succefs, the divisions began to prevail which have since fo much agitated the reformed church-es. The first dispute was between Luther and Zuinglius concerning the manner in which the body and blood of Christ were present in the eucharist. Luther and his followers, though they had rejected the notion of tranfubstantiation, were nevertheless of opinion that the body and blood of Christ were really present in the Lord’s supper, in a way which they could not pretend to explain. Carlostadt, who was Luther’s colleague, first suggested another view of the subject, which was afterwards confirmed and illustrated by Zuinglius, namely, that the body and blood of Christ were not really prefent in the eucharist ; and that the bread and wine were no more than external fymbols to excite the remembrance of Christ’s fufferings in the minds of those who received it. Both parties maintained their tenets with the utmost obstinacy ; and, by their divisions, first gave their adversaries an argument against them, which to this day the Catholics urge with great force ; namely, that the Protestants are fo divided, that it is impoffible to know who is right or wrong ; and that there cannot be a stronger proof than these divisions, that the whole doc-trine is falfe.
To these intestshe divisions were added the horrors of a civil war, occasioned by oppreffion on the one hand, and enthusiasm on the other. In 1525, a great number of seditious fanatics arose ©n a sudden in different parts of Germany, took arms, united their forces, and made war against the empire, laying waste the country with sire and sword, and committing everywhere the greatest cruelties. The greatest part of this furious mob was compofed of peasants and vassals, who groaned under heavy burdens, and declared that they were no longer able to bear the despotic government of their chiefs ; and hence this sedition had the name of
the ruslic war,
or the 
war os the peasants.
At sirst this rabble declared, that they had no other motives than the redress of their grievances ; but no sooner had the enthusiass Munzer, or Munsser, the anabaptist, put himself at their head, than the face of things was entirely changed, and the civil commotions in Saxony and Thuringia exceedingly increased, of which an account is given under the article Anabaptists.
In the mean time Frederic, surnamed the
Wise,
elector of Saxony, and Luther’s great patron, departed this life, and was sueceeded by his brother John. Frederic, though he had protected and encouraged Luther, yet w, as at no pains to introduce the reformed religion into
his dominion®. But with his successor it was otherwise ; for he, convinced that Luther’s doctrine must soon be totally destroyed and suppressed unless it received a speedy and effectual support, ordered Luther and Melancthon to draw up a body of laws relating to the form of ecclesiastical government, the method of public worship, &c. which was to be proclaimed by heralds throughout his dominions. This example was followed by all the -princes and states of Germany who renounced tlie papal supremacy ; and a like form of worship, discipline, and government, was thus introduced into all the churches ’which di(Γented from that of Rome. This open renun-ciation of the Romish jurisdiction soon changed the face of affairs ; and the patrons of Popery soon intimated, in a manner not at all ambiguous, that they intended to make war on th¢ Lutheran party ; which would certainly have been put in execution, had not the trou-bles that took place in Europe disconcerted their mea-fures. Οη the other hand, the Lutherans, apprized of these hostile intentions, began also to deliberate on a proper plan of defence against that fuperstitious violence with which they were in danger of being assailed. The diet of the empire assembled at Spire, in the year 1526; where the emperor’s ambassadors were desired to use their utmost endeavours to suppress all disputes about religion, and to insist upon the rigorous execution of the ientence which had been pronounced against Luther and his followers at worms. The greatest part of the German princes opposed this motion with the ut-most refolution, declaring that they could not cxecute that sentence, nor come to any determination with regard to the doctrines by which it had been occasioned, Before the whole matter was submitted to the decifion of a council lawfully assembled ; alleging farther, that tke decision of controversies of this nature belonged properly to it, and to it alone. This opinion, after long and very warm debates, was adopted by a great majority, and at length confented to
by
the whole assembly: for it was unanimously agreed to present a solemn ad-tlrefs to the emperor, intreating him to assemble, without delay, a free and general council ; while in the mean time it was also agreed, that the princes of the empire should, in their respective dominions, be at liberty to manage ecclesiastical affairs in the manner they should think most proper ; yet so as to be able to give to God and the emperor a proper account of their administra-tion when it should be required of them.
These resolutions proved extremely favourable to the cause of reformation ; neither had the emperor any lei-sure for fome time to give disturbance to the reformed. The war, which at this time ensued between him and the pope, gave the greatest advantage to the friends of the reformed, and considerably augmented their number. Several princes, whom the fear of persecution and punishment had hitherto prevented from lending their affistance, publicly renounced the Romish superststion, and introduced among their subjects the same forms of religious worship, and the same lystem of doctrine, that had been received in Saxony, others, though placed in such circumstances as discouraged them from acting in an open manner against the interests of the Roman pontiff, were, however, far from discovering the smallest opposition to those who withdrew the people from his despotic yoke ; nor did they molest the private assem-blies of those who had separated themselves from the
church of Rome. And in general, all the Germans who, before these 1efolutions of the diet of Spire, had rejected the papal difcipline and doctrine, were now, in consequencc of the libcrty they enjoyed, wholly employed in bringing their fchemes and plans to a certain de-gree of confidence, and in adding vigour and firmness to the cause in which they were engaged. But this tranquillity and liberty was of no long duration. In 1529, a new diet was assembled at the same place by the emperor, after he had quieted the troubles in various parts of his dominions, and concluded a peace with the pope. The power which had been granted to princes of managing ecclesiastical affairs till the meeting of a general council, was now revoked by a majority of votes ; and every change declared unlawful that should be introduced into the doctrine, discipline, or worship of the established religion, before the determination of the approaching council was known. This decree was considered as iniquitous and intolerable by the elector of Saxony, the landgrave of Hesse, and other members os the diet, who were persuaded of the neceffity of a reformation. The promise of speedily assembling a
general
council, they looked upon to be an artifice of the church of Rome ; well knowing, that a free and lawful council would be the Iast thing to which the pope would consent. when, therefore, they found that all their arguments and remonstrances made no impreffion upon Ferdinand the emperor’s brother, who presided in the diet, Charles himself being then at Barcelona, they entered a solcmn protest against this decree on the 19th of April, and appealed to the emperor and a future council. Hence arose the denomination of
Protfiαnts, 
which from this period has been given to those who separate from the communion of the church of Rome. The princes of the empire who entered this protest were, John elector of Saxony; George elector of Bran-denburg ; Ernest and Francis dukes of Lunenburgh ; the landgrave of Hesse ; and the prince of Anhalt. These were seconded by 13 imperial towns, viz. Straf-burg, U'lm, Nuremberg, Constance, Rottingen, wind-seim, Memmiπgen, Nortlingen, Lindaw, Kempton, Htilbron, wissemburg, and St Gall.
The dissenting princes, who were the protectors and heads of the reformed churches, had no sooner entered their protest, than they fent proper perfons to the em-peror, who was then upon h13 passage from Spain to Italy, to acquaint him with their proceedings irf this matter. The ministers employed in this commission executed it with the greatest intrepidity and prefence of mind ; but the emperor, exasperated at the audacity of those who prefumed to differ from him, caused the ambassadors to be arrested. The news of this violent step made the Protestant princes conclude, that their person-al safety, and the succefs of their cause, depended entirely upon their own courage and union. They de-termined, therefore, to enter into a solemn confederacy: sor which purpose they held several meetings at Rot, Nuremberg, Smalcald, and other places : but so different were their opinions and views, that they could determine upon nothing.
o∏e great obstacle to the intended confederacy was the dispute which had ansen between Luther and Zuinglius concerning the real presence of Christ in the Lord’s Supper. To terminate this difpute, if possible, Philip, landgrave
of
Heffe, invited, in the year 1529, tβ
a conference at Marpurg, Luther and Zuinglius, toge-ther with several other of the more eminent doctors who adhered to the respective parties of these contending chiefs : but this measure was not attended with the sa-lutary effects which were expected from it. The divines disputed for four days in presence of the landgrave. Lu-ther attacked oecolampadius, and Zuinglius was attack-ed by Melancthon. Zuinglius was accused of heresy, not only on account of his explanation of the nature aud design of the Lord’s Supper, but alfo in confequence of the falfe notions he was fupposed to have adopted concerning the divinity of Christ, the efficacy of the divine -word, original
fin,
and some other parts of the Christian doctrine. This illustrious reformer, however, cleared himfelf from the greatest part of thefe charges whh the most triumphant evidence, and in fuch a manner as appeared fatisfactory even to Luther himfelf : but their dissension concerning the manner of Christ’s presence in the eucharist still remained ; nor could either of the contending parties be persuaded to abandon, or even to modify, their opinions on that matter. The only advantage, therefore, which resulted from the meeting was, that the jarring doctors formed a kind of truce, by agreeing to a mutual toleration of their fentiments, and leaving to the disposal of Providence the cure of their divisions.
In the mean time news were received that the emperor designed to come into Germany, with a view to terminate all religious differences at the approaching diet of Augshurg. Having foreseen fome of the consequences
of
those disputes, and, besides, taken the advice of men of wisdom, sagacity, and experience, he became at certain times more cool in his proceedings, and more impartial in his opinions both of the contending parties and the merits of the cause. He, therefore, in an interview with the pope at Bologna, insisted, in the most serious and urgent manner, on the necessity of a general council. His remonstrances and expo-stulations, however, could not move the pontiff ; who maintained with zeal the papal prerogatives, reproached the emperor with an ill-judged clemency, and alleged that it was the duty of that prince to support the church, and to execute speedy vengeance upon that obitinate heretical faction who dared to call in question the au-thority of Rome and its pontiff. To this discourse the emperor paid no regard ; looking upon it as a most iniquitous thing, and a measure directly opposite to the laws of the empire, to condemn unheard a set of men who had always approved themfelves good citizens, and deserved well of their country in several respects. Hitherto indeed it was not easy for the emperor to form a clear idea of the matters in debate, since there was no regular system as yet composed, by which it might be known with certainty what were the true causes of Luther's opposition to the pope. The elector of Saxony, therefore, ordered Luther, and other eminent divines, to commit to writing the chief articles of their religious system, and the principal points in which they differed from the church of Rome. Luther, in compliance with
this order, delivered to the elector at Torgaw 17 articles which had been agreed upon in a conference at Sultzbach in 1529 ; from whence these received the name of
the articles os Torgaw.
But though these were deemed by Luther a sufficient declaration of the senti-jκιents of the reformers, yet it was judged proper to en
large them, J∏ order to give perspicuity
to
their argu
ments, and strength to their cause.
In
this work Melancthon was employed ; in which he showcd a proper deference to the counsels of Luther, and expressed his fentiments and doctrine with the greatest elegance and perspicuity ; and thus came forth to view the famous 
Confeffion os Augsburg.
Οη the 15th of June 1530, Charles arrived at Augs. burg, and the diet was opened live days after. The Protestants received a formal permission to present an account of their tenets to the diet on the 25th of the same month ; in consequence of which, at the time ap-pointed, Christian Bayer, chancellor of Saxony, read, in the German language, before the emperor and the princes affembled, the confession of Augshurg above-mentioned. It contained 28 chapters, of which
21 
were employed in representing the religious opinions of the Protestants, and the other feven in pointing out the errors and fuperstitions of the church of Rome. The princes heard it with the deepest attention and recollection of mind : it confirmed some in the principles they had embraced ; surprised others ; and many, who be-fore this time had little or no idea of the religious sentiments of Luther, were now not only convinced of their innocence, but delighted with thcir purity and fimplicity. The copies of this Confession, which after being read were delivered to the emperor, were signed by John elector of Saxony, George marquis of Bran-denburg, Ernest duke of Lunenburg, Philip landgrave of Heife, Wolfgang prince of Anhalt, and by the im-perial cities of Nuremberg and Reutlingen.
The creatures of the church of Rome who were pre* fent at this diet employed John Faber, afterwτ ards bishop of vienna, together with Eckius, and another doctor named
Cockdœus,
to draw up a refutation of the Protef-tant confession : which refutation having been publicly read, the emperor required the Protestant members to acquiefce in it, and put an end to tbe religious disputes by an unlimited submission to the opinions and doctrines contained in this answer. But this demand was far from being complied with. The Protestants declared on the contrary, that they were by no means satisfied with the reply of their adversaries ; and earnestly defired a copy of it, that they might more fully demonstrate its extreme infufficiency and weakness. But this reasonable request was refused by the emperor ; who interposed his supreme authority to prevent any farther proceedings in this matter, and solemnly prohibited the publication of any new writings or declarations that might contribute to lengthen out these religious debates. This, however, did not reduce the Protestants to silence. The divines of that communion, who had been present at the diet, endeavoured to recollect the arguments and objections employed by Faber, and had again recourse to the pen of Melancthon, who refuted them in an ample and sa-tisfactory manner in a piece which was presented to thc emperor on the 2 2d of September, but which Charles refnsed to receive. This answer was afterwards enlarged by Melancthon, when he had obtained a copy of Faber’s reply ; and was published in the year 1531, with the other pieces that related to the doctrine and difeipline of the Lutheran church, under the title of
A Defence of the Cοnfijfiοn os Augsburg.
Matters now began to draw towards a crisis. There
were only three ways of bringing to
a
coaclusion these
r¢Ugieue djtT¢r¢nces,
ι» To
grant the Protestants a toleration and privilege of serving God as they thought propers 2. To compel them to return to the church of Rome by the violent methods of persecution : or, 
a.
That a reconciliation should be made, upon fair, can-did, and equitable terms, by engaging each of the par-ties to temper their zeal with moderation, to abate re-¢iprocaliy the rigour of their pretensions, and remit fomething of their respective claims. The third expedient was most generally approved of, being peculiarly agreeable to all who had at heart the welfare of the empire ; nor did the pope seem to look upon it either with averfion or contempt. Various conferences therefore were he’d between persons eminent for piety and learning on both sides ∙ and nothing was omitted that might have the least tendency to calm the animosities and heal the divisions which reigned between the con. tending parties. But the differences were too great to admit of a reconciliation ; and therefore the votaries of Rome had recourse to the powerful arguments of imperial edicts, and the force of the secular arm. Οη the 
i
ρth of November, a severe decree was issued out by the express order of the emperor (during the absence 
of
the Hessian and Saxon princes, who were the chief supporters of the Protestant cause), in which every thing was manifestly adapted to deject the friends of religious liberty, excepting only a faint and dubious promise of engaging the pope to assemble a general council about fiκ months after the separation os the diet. In this de-créé the dignity and excellence of the Popish religion were extolled beyond measure, a new degree of severity and force was added to that which had been published at Worms against Luther aιjd his adherents, the changes which had been introduced into the doctrine and discipline of the Protestant churches were severely eensured, and a solemn order was addresied to the princes,cities, and states, who had thrown off the Papal yoke, to return to their allegiance to Rome, on pain of incurring the indig-nation and vengeance of the emperor as the patron and protector of the church. Of this formidable decree thc ejector of βaxonyand confederated princeswere nosooner informed, than they affembled in order to deliberate on the measures proper to be taken in such a crisis. In the years 1530 and 1531 they met,
fiist
at Smalcald, and afterwards at Francfort, where they formed a so-lemn alliance and confederacy, with the intention of defending vigorously their religion and liberties against the dangers and encroachments with which they were threa-tened by the edict of Augshurg, without attempting, however, any thing· offensive against the votaries of Rome ; and into this confederacy they invited th¢ kings 
of
England, France, Denmark, &c. leaving no means unemployed that might corroborate and cement this important alliance,
This confederacy was at first opposed by Luther, from an apprehension of the calamities and troubles which it might produce j but at last, perceiving the necessity of it, he consented ; though he uncharitably, as well as imprudently, refused to comprehend in it the followers of Zuinglius among thc Swiss, together with the German states and cities who had adopted the fen-
timents
and confession of Bucer. In the invitation ad-dreffed
to
Henry VIII.
of
England, whom the con-federate princes were willing to declare the head and protector of
their
league, the following things, among
others,
were «tpr¢stly stipulated : That the king fliauïd encourage, promote, and maintain, the true doctrine of Christ as it was contained in the confession of Augf- ' burg, and deiend the fame at the next general council : that he should not agree to any council lummoned bv the bishop of Rome, but protest against it ; and neither submit to its decrees, nor suffer them to be respected in his dominions: that he should never allow the Roman pontist to have any pre-eminence or jurisdiction in his dominions ; that he should advance 100,000 crowns for the use of the confederacy, and double that sum if it became neceffary : all which articles the confederate pιinces were equally obliged to observe on their part.
I o these demands the king replied, that he would mam-tain and promote the true doctrine of Christ ; but, at the fame time, as the true ground of that doctrine lay only in the holy Scriptures, he would not accept at any one’s hand what should he his own faith, or that of his kingdom j and therefore desired that they would send over two learned men to confer with him, in order to promote a religious union between him and the confederates. However, he declared himself of their opinion with 1 egard to the meeting of a free general council, and promised to join with them in all fuch councils for the defence of the true doctrine ; hut thought the regula-tion of the ceremonial part of religion, being a matter of indifference, ought to be left to the choice of each sovereign for his own dominions. After this the king gave them a second answer more full and fatisfactory ; but afteι the execution os queen Anne, this negociatioπ came to nothing. Ο11 the one hand, the king grew cold when he perceived that the confederates were no longer of use to him in supporting the validity of hi3  marriage 5 and, on the other hand, the German princes became sensible that they could never fucceed with. Henry unless they allowed him an absolute dictatorship in matters of religion.
while every thing thus tended to an open war be-tween the two opposite parties, the elector Palatine, and the elector of Mentz, offered their mediation, and en-deavouιed to procure a reconciliation. I he emperor himself, for various reasons, was at this time inclined to peace : for, on the one hand, he stood in need of succours against the Turks, which the Protestant princes refused to grant as long as the edicts of worms and Augshurg remained in force ; and, on the other, the election of his brother Ferdinand to the dignity of king of the Romans, which had been carried by a majority of votes at the diet of Cologne in 1531, was by the fame pιinces contested, as being contrary to the fundamental laws of the empire. In consequence of all this, after many negociations and projects of reconciliation, a treaty of peace was concluded at Nuremberg in 1532, between the emperor and the Protestant princes, on the following conditions ;
viz.
That the latter should furnish a subsidy for carrying on the war against the Turks, and acknowledge Ferdinand lawful king of the Romans; and that the emperor on his part should abrogate and annul the edicts of worms and Augshurg·, and allow the Lutherans the free and undisturbed exercise of their religious doctrine and discipline, until a rule of faith was fixed either in the free general council that was to be affembled in the fpace of six months, or in a diet of the empire.
f>oon after the conclusion of the peace at Nuremberg
died John elector of
Saxony, who was succeeded by his son John Frederic, a prince of invincible fortitude and magnanimity, but whose reign was little better than one continued train of disappointments and calamities. The religious truce, however, gave new vigour to the reformation. Thofe who had hitherto been only se-cret enemies to the Roman pontiff, now publicly threw off his yoke ; and various cities and provinces of Gcr-jnany enlisted themselves under the religious standards of Luther. Οη the other hand, as the emperor had now no other hope of terminating the religious disputes Éut by the meeting of a general council, he repeated his requests to the pope for that purpose. The pontiff (Clement VII.), whom the history of pastcoun-cils filled with the greatest uneasiness, endeavoured to retard what he could not with decency refuse, At last, in 1533, he made a proposal by his legate to affemble a council at Mantua, Placentia, or Bologna ; but the Protestants refused their consent to the nomination of an Italian council, and insisted that a controversy which had its rise in the heart of Germany, should be deter-mined within the limits of the empire. The pope, by his usual artifices, eluded the performance of his own promife ; and, in 1534, was cut off by death, in the midst of his stratagems. His succeffor Paul III. feem-ed to show less reluctance to the assembling a general council, and in the year 1535 expressed his inclination to convoke one at Mantua ; and, the year following, actually sent circular letters for that purpose through all the states and kingdoms under his jurisdiction. Tin’s council was summoned by a bull issued out on the 2d of June 1536, to meet at Mantua the following year but several obstacles prevented its meeting; one of the most material of which was, that Frederic duke of Mantua had no inclination to receive at once so many guests, some of them very turbulent, into the place of his residence. Οη the other hand, the Protestants were firmly persuaded that, as the council was assembled in
Italy, and by the authority of the pope alone, the lat-ter must have had an undue influence in that assembly ; of consequence, that all things must have been carried by the votaries of Rome. For this reason they assem-bled at Smalcald in the year 1537, where they folemn-ly protested against this partial and corrupt council, and, at the same time, had a new summary of their doctrine drawn up by Luther, in order to present it to the assembled bishops if it should be required of them. This fummary, which had the title of
The Articles os Smalcald,
is commonly joined with the creeds and confessions of the Lutheran church.
After the meeting of the general council in Man-tua was thus prevented, many schemes of accommodation were proposed both by the emperor and the Protestants ; but, by the artifices of the church of Rome, all of them came ≠o nothing. In 1541, the emperor appointed a conference at worms on the subject of religion, between persons of piety and learning chosen from the contending parties. This conference, however, was, for certain reasons, removed to the diet which was to be held at Ratishon that fame year, and in which the principal subject of deliberation was a me-morial presented by a person unknown, containing a project of peace. But the conference produced no other effect than a mutual agreement of the contending par
ties
to
refer their matters to a general council, or, if
the meeting of such a council should be prevented, to
the next German diet.
This refolution was rendered ineffectual by a variety of incidents, which widened the breach, and put off to a farther day the deliberations which were de-signed to heal it. The pope ordered his legate to declare to the diet of Spire, assembled in 1542, that he would, according to the promise he had already made, assemble a general council, and that Trent should be the place of its meeting, if the diet had no objection to that city. Ferdinand, and the princes who adhered to the cause of the pope, gave their consent to this proposal ; but it was vehemently objected to by the Protestants,. both because the council was summoned by the authority of the pope only, and al-so because the place was within the jurisdiction of the Pope; whereas they desired a free council, which should not be biassed by the dictates, nor awed by the proximity, of the pontiff. But this protestation produced no effect. Paul III. persisted in his purpose, and issued. out his circular letters for the convocation of the council, with the approbation of the emperor. In justice to this pontiff, however, it must be observed, that he showed himself not to be averse to every reformation. He appointed four cardinals, and three other persons eminent for their learning, to draw up a plan for the reformation of the church in general, and of the church of Rome in particular. The reformation proposed in this plan was indeed extremely fuperficial and partial, yet it contained fome particulars which could scarcely have been expected from those who composed it. They complained of the pride and ignorance of the bishops, and proposed that none should receive orders but learned and pious men ; and that therefore care should be taken to have proper masters for the instruction of youth. They condemned translations from one benefice to another, grants of reservation, non-residence, and pluralities. They proposed that some convents should be abolished ; that the liberty of the press should be re-strained and limited ; that the colloquies of Erasmus should be suppreffed ; that no ecclesiastic should enjoy a benefice out of his own country ; that no cardinal fnould have a bishopric ; that the questors of St Anthony and several other saints' should be abolished ; and, which was the best of all their proposals, that the effects and personal estates of ecclesiastics shonld be given to the poor. They concluded with complaining of the prodigious number of indigent and ragged priests who frequented St Peter’s church ; and declared, that it was a great fcandal to fee the whores lodged fo magnificently at Rome, and riding through the streets on . fine mules, while the cardinals and other ecclesiastics accompanied them in the most courteous manner.— This plan of reformation was turned into ridicule by Luther and Sturmius ; and indeed it left unredreffed the most intolerable grievances of which the Protestants complained.
All this time the emperor had been labouring to perfuade the Protestants to consent to the meeting of the council at Trent ; but when he found them fixed in their opposition to this measure, he began to listen to the sanguinary measures of the pope, and refolved to terminate the disputes by force of arms. The elec-tor of Saxony and landgrave of HeiΓe, who were the chief supporters of the Protestant cause, upon this took
proper measures to prevent their being surprised and overwhelmed by a superior force ; but, before the hor-rors of war commenced, the great reformer Luther died in peace at Ayselben, the place of his nativity, in 1546.
The emperor and the pope had mutually resolved on the destruction of all who shonld dare to oppose the council of Trent. The meeting of it was to serve as a signal for taking up arms ; and accordingly its deliberations were fcarcely begun in 1546, when the Protestants perceived undoubted signs of the approaching ftorm, and a formidable union betwixt the emperor and pope, which threatened to crush and overwhelm them at once. This year indeed there had been a new conference at Ratisbon upon the old fubject of accom-modating differences in religion ; but from the manner in which the debates were carried on, it plainly ap-peared that these differences could only be decided in the field of battle. The council of Trent, in the mean time, promulgated their decrees ; while the reformed princes, in the diet of Ratishon, protested against their authority, and were on that account profcribed By the emperor, who raised an army to reduce them to obedience. See
Father Paul’s Hiftory os the Council os Trent,
and our articles Paul (Father), and Trent.
The elector of Saxony and the landgrave of Hefle led their forces into Bavaria against the emperor, and cannonaded his camp at Ingoldstalt. It was supposed that this would bring on an engagement, which would probably have been advantageous to the cause of the reformed ; but this was prevented, chiefly by the per-sidy of Maurice duke of Saxony, who invaded the dominions of his uncle. Divisions were also fomented among the confederate princes, by the diffimulation of the emperor ; and France failed in paying the subsidy which had been promised by its monarch : all which so discouraged the heads of the Protestant party, that their army soon dispersed, and the elector of Saxony was obliged to direct his march homewards. But he was pursued by the emperor, who made several forced marches, with a view to destroy his enemy before he should have time to recover his vigour. The two armies met near Muhlberg, on the Elbe, on the 24th of April 1547 ; and, after a bloody action, the elector was entirely defeated, and himself taken prisoner.— Maurice, who had so basely betrayed him, was now declared elector of Saxony ; and by his intreaties Philip landgrave of Hesse, the other chief of the Prote-stants, was persuaded to throw himfelf on the mercy of the emperor, and to implore his pardon. To this he consented, relying on the promise of Charles for obtaining forgiveness, and being restored to liberty ; but, not-withstanding these expectations, he was unjustly detained prisoner, by a fcandalous violation of the most solemn convention. It is faid that the emperor retracted his promise, and deluded this unhappy prince by the ambiguity of two German words. History in-deed can scarce afford a parallel to the perfidious, mean-spirited, and despotic behaviour of the emperor in the present case. After having received in pub-lic the humble submission of the prince on his knees, and after having set him at liberty by a solemn treaty, he had him arrested anew without any reafon, nay, without any pretence, and kept him close prisoner for several years, when Maurice remonstrated 
against this new confinement, the emperor anfweredi .
that he had never promised that the
landgrave fhould
not be imprisoned anew, but only that he should be exempted from perpetual imprifonment ; and, to support this assertion, he produced the treaty, in which his ministers had persidioufly foisted
ewiger gefangnis, 
which signisies a " perpetual prifon,” instead of
einiger gsfuιgnis,
which signisies " any prifon.” This, however, is contested by some historians.
The affairs of the Protestants now seemed to be de-sperate. In the diet of Augshurg, which was soon after called, the emperor required the Protestants to leave the decision of these religious disputes to the wisdom of the council which was to meet at Trent. The greatest part of the members consented to this proposal, being convinced by the powerful argument of an imperial army, which was at hand to dispel the darkness from the eyes of such as might otherwise have been blind to the force of Charles’s reasoning. However, this general submiffion did not produce the effect which was expected from it. A plague which broke out, or was said to do so, in the city, caused the greatest part of the bishops to retire to Bologna ; by which means the council was in effect dissolved, nor could all the intreaties and remonstrances of the emperor prevail upon the pope to re-assemble it without delay. During this interval, therefore, the emperor judged it necessary to fall upon some method of ac-commodating the religious differences, and maintaining peace until the council so long expected should be finally obtained, with this view he ordered Julius Pelugius bilhop of Naumberg, Michael Sidonius, a creature of the pope, and John Agricola, a native of Ayselben, to draw up a formulary which might serve as a rule of faith and worship, till the council should be affembled : but as this was only a temporary expedient, and had not the force of a permanent or perpetual institution, it thence obtained the name of the
Interim.
This project of Charles was formed partly with
a
design to vent his resentment against the pope, and partly to answer other political purposes. It contain-ed all the essential doctrines of the church of Rome, though considerably foftened by the artful terms which were employed, and which were quite different from those employed before and after this period by the council of Trent. There was even an affected ambiguity in many os the expreffiυns, which made them sufceptible of different senses, and applicable to the sentiments of both communions. The consequence of all this was, that the imperial creed was reprobated by both parties. However, it was promulgated with great solemnity by the emperor at Augshurg. The elector of Mentz, without even afl<ing the opinion of the princes present, gave a sanction
Λ,ο
this formula, as if he had been commiffioned to represent the whole diet- Many kept silence through fear, and that silence was interpreted as a tacit consent. Some had the courage to oppose it, and these were reduced by force of arms ; and the most deplorable scenes of bloodshed and violence were acted throughout the whole empire. Maurice, elector of Saxony, who had hitherto kept neutral, now affembled the whole of his nobility and clergy, in order to deliberate on this critical affair. At the head of the latter was Melancthon, whose word was
respected as a law
among
the Protestants.
But
th⅛ m¾n had not the courage of Luther ∣ and was therefore on all occasions ready to make concessions, and to propose schemes of accommodation. In the present case, therefore, he gave it as his opinion, that the whole of the book called
Interim
could not by any means be adopted by the Protestants; but at same time he declared, that, he saw no reason why this book might not be appproved, adopted, and received, as an authoritative rule in things that did not relate to the cisential parts of religion, and which he accounted indifferent. But this scheme, instead of cementing tlie differences, made them much worse than ever ; and produced a divjsion among the Protestants themselves, which might have overthrown the Reformation en-tirely, if the emperor and pope had seized the oppoι⅛ tunity.
In the year 1549, the pope (Paul ∏I.) died; and w, as succeeded by Julius III. who, at the repeated fo-licitations of the emperor, consented to the re-assem-bling os a council at Trent. A diet was again held at Augshurg under the cannon of an imperial army, and Charles laid the matter. before the princes of the em*= pire. Most of these present gave their consent to it, and among the rest Maurice elector of Saxony $ who consented on the following conditions ; 1, That the points of doctrine which had already been decided there, should be re-examined.
2.
That this eχami-nation should be made in presence of the Protestant divines. 3. That the Saxon Protestants should have a liberty of voting as well as of deliberating in the council. 4. That the pope shouid not pretend to pre-fide in that assembly, either in perfon or by his legates. This declaration of Maurice was read in the diet, and his deputies insisted upon its being entered into the registers which the archbishop of Mentz obstinately re-fused. The diet was concluded in the year 1551 ; and, at its breaking up, the emperor desired the assembled princes and states to prepare all things for the approaching council, and promifed to use his ut-most endeavours to procure moderation and harmony, impartiality and charity, in the transactions of that as-fembly.
Οη the breaking up of the diet, the Protestants took fuch steps as they thought most proper for their own safety. The Saxons employed Melancthon, and the wurtembergers Brengius, to draw up Confessions of Faith to be laid before the new council. The Saxon di-vines, however, proceeded no farther than Nuremberg, having received secret orders from Maurice to stop there : For the elector, perceiving that Charles had formed designs against the liberties of the German princes, resolved to take the most effectual measures for crushing his ambition at once. He therefore entered with the utmQst fecrecy and expedition into an alliance with the king of France, and several of the German princes, for the security of the rights and liberties of the empire ; after which, assembling a powerful army in 1552, he marched against the emperor, who lay with a handful of troops at Inspruck, and expected no such thing. By thi3 sudden and unforeseen accident Charles was so much dispirited, that he was willing to make peace almost on any terms, The consequence
ef
this was, that he concluded a treaty at Passau, which by the Protestants is considered as the bafis of their religi-
«us
liberty. By the first three
articles
of
this treaty it
was agreed, that Maurice and the eon⅛4βFStfs sh¢std lay down their arms, and lend their troops to Ferdinand to assist him against the Turks ↑ and that the landgrave of Hesse should be set at liberty. By the fourth it was agreed, that the Rule of Faith called the
Interim 
should be confidered as null and void ; that
the
contending parties should enjoy the free and undisturixd exercise of their religion, until a diet should be assetrw bled to determine amicably the prefent disputes (which diet was to meet in the space of six months) ; and. that this religious liberty should continue always, in case it should be found impossible to come to an uniformity in doctrine and worship. It was also determined, that all those who had suffered banishment, or any other eala∙* mity, on account of their having been concerned in the league or war of Smalca!d> should. be iesnstated in their privileges, posiessions, and employments ; that the im« pedal chamber at Spire should be open to the. Prate· Hants as well as to the Catholics 5 and that there should always be a certain number of Lutherans in that high court.-—To this peace Albert, marquis of Branden-burg, refufed to subfcribe ; and continued the war agamst the Roman-catholics, committing such ravagea in the empire, that a confederacy was at last formed again st him, At the head of this confederacy was Maurice elector of Saxony, who died of a wound he received in a battle fought on the occasion in
155 3,
The affembling
of
the diet promised by Charles was prevented by various incidents ; however it met at Augshurg in 1555, where it was opened by Ferdinand in name of the emperor, and terminated those deplorable calamities which had sh long desolated the empire» After various debates, the following acts were paffed, on the 25th of September t That the Prote-stants who followed the Confession of Augshurg should be for the future considered as entirely free from the ju∙ risdiction of the Roman pontiff, and from the authority and fuperintendance of the bishops 5 that they were left at perfect liberty to enact laws for themselves relating to their religious sentiments, discipline, and worship j that all the inhabitants os the German empire should be allowed to judge for themselves in religious matteι⅜ and to join themselves to that church whole doctrine and worship they thought the most pure and ¢onfimant to the spirit of true Christianity 5 and that all those who should injure or persecute any perfon under reli» gious pretences, and on account of their opinions, should be declared and proceeded against as public enemies os the empire, invaders of its liberty, and disturbers of its peace.
Thus was the Reformation established in many parts of the German empire, where it continues to this day j nor have the efforts of the Popish powers at any time been able to fupprefs it, or even to prevent it from gaining ground. It was not, however, in Germany alone that a reformation of religion took place, Ak most all the kingdoms of Europe began t© open their eyes to the truth about the same time. The reformed religion was propagated in Sweden, soon after
Lu-
ther’s rupture with the church of Rome, by onc
of 
his disciples named
Olaus Petri,
The zealous efforts of this missionary were feconded by Gustavws
Vafi⅛ 
whom the Swedes had raifed to the throne in place of Christiern king of Denmark, whose horrid barbarity 
lost him the crown. This priaee, however, was as
prudent
a∣ he was zealous ; and, as thc minds of the Swedes were in a fluctuating state, he wifely avoided all kind of vehemence and precipitation in spreading the new doctrine. Accordingly, the firft object of his attention was the instruction of his people in the sa-cred doctrines of the Holy Scriptures : for which pur-pose he invited into his dominions feveral learned Ger-mans, and spread abroad through the kingdom the Swedish translation of the Bible that had been made by olaus Petri. Some time after this,
in 1526,
he appointed a conference at Upfal, between this reformer and Peter Gallius, a zealous defender of the ancient su-perstition, in which each of the champions was to bring forth his arguments, that it might be seen on which fide the truth lay. In this dispute olaus obtained 
a
fignal victory ; which contributed much to confirm Gustavus in his persuasion of the truth of Luther’s doc-trine, and to promote its progrefs in Sweden. The following year another event gave the finishing stroke to its propagation and succefs. This was the assembly ¢f the states at westeraas, where Gustavus recommend-ed the doctrine of the reformers with such zeal, that, after warm debates fomented by the clergy in general, rt was unanimously refolved that the reformation introduced by Lutiιer should have place in Sweden. This refolution was principally owing to the firmness and magnanimity of Gustavus, who declared publicly, that he would lay down the fceptre and retire from the kingdom, rather than rule a people enslaved by the orders and authority of the pope, and more contracted by the tyranny of their bishops than by the laws of their monarch. From this time the papal empire in Sweden was entirely overthrown, and Gustavus declared head of the church.
In Denmark, the reformation was introduced as early as the year 1 ς2τ, in consequence of the ardent desire discovered by Christiern II. of having his fubjects in-structed in the doctrines of Luther. This monarch, notwithstanding his cruelty, for which his name has been rendered odious, was nevertheless desirous of delivering his dominions from the tyranny of the church of Rome. For this purpofe, in the year 1 Ç20, he sent for Martin Reinard, one of the difciples of Carlostadt, out of Saxony, and appointed him profeffor of divinity at Hafnia ; and after his death, which happened in 1521, he invited Carlostadt himielf to fill that important place. Carlostadt accepted of this office indeed, but in a short time returned to Germany ; upon which Christiern used his utmost endeavours to engage Lu-ther to visit his dominions, but in vain. However, the progress of Christiern, in reforming the religion of his subjects, or rather of advancing his own power above that of the church, was checked, in the year 1523, by a conspiracy, by which he was depofed and banished ; his uncle Frederic·, duke of Holilein and Sleswic, being appointed his successor.
Frederic conducted the reformation with much greater prudence than his predecessor. He permitted the Protestant doctors to preach publicly the fentiments of Luther, but did not venture to change the establish-ed government and discipline of the church. However, he contributed greatly to the progress of the reforma-tion, by his successful attempts in favour of religious liberty in an assembly of the states held at odensee in 
1527. Here he procured the publication of a famous
edict, by which every subject of Denmark was deekj' red free either to adhere to the tenets of the church of Rome, or to tfie doctrine of Luther. The papal tyranny was totally destroyed by his successor Chri-stiern III. He began by suppressing the despotic au» thority of the bishops, and restoring to their lawful owners a great part of the wealth and possessions which the church had acquired by various stratagems. Ι'fiis was followed by a plan of religious doctrine, worship, and discipline, laid down by Bugenhagius, whom the king had sent for from wittemberg for that purpose ; and in 1539 an assembly os the states at odensee gave a solemn sanction to all thesc transactions.
In France also, the reformation began to make some progress very early. Margaret queen of Navarre, fister to Francis I. the perpetual rival of Charles V. was a great friend to the new doctrine ; and it appears that, as early as the year 1523, there were in several of the provinces of France great numbers of people who had conceived the greatest aversion both to the doctrine and tyranny of the church of Rome ; among whom were many of the first rank and dignity, and even some of the episcopal order. But as their number increafed daily, and troubles and commotions were excited in several places on account of the religious differences, the authority of the king intervened, and many persons eminent for their virtue and piety were put to death in the most barbarous manner. Indeed Francis, who had either no religion at all, or, at best, no fixed and consistent fystem of religious principles, conducted himself towards the Protestants in such
a 
manner as best answered his private views. Sometimes he resolved to invite Melancthon into France, probably with a view to please his fister the queen of Navarre, whom he loved tenderly, and who had strongly imbibed the Protestant principles. At other times he eχ-ercifed the most infernal cruelty towards the reformed ; and once made the following mad declaration, That if he thought the blood in his arm was tainted by the Lutheran heresy, he woctd have st cut off ; and that he woctd not spare even his own children, if they en-tertained sentiments contrary to those of the Catholic church.
About this time the famous Calvin began to draw the attention of the public, but more especially of the queen of Navarre His zeal expofed him to danger j and the friends of the reformation, whom Francis was daily committing to the flames, placed him more than once in the most perilous situation, from which he was delivered by the interposition of the queen of Navarre. He therefore retired out of France to Basil in Swissei-land; where he published his Christian Institutions, and became afterwards so famous.
l pmfe amon S' t ^ιe French who first renounced the jurisdiction of the Romish church, are commonly called
Lutherans
by the writers of those early times. Hence it has been supposed that they had all imbibed the peculiar sentiments of Luther. But this appears by no means to have been the case : for the vicinity of the cities of Geneva, Laufanne, &c. which had adopted the doctrines of Calvin, produced a remarkable effect upon the French Protestant churches ; infomuch that, about the middle of this century, they all entered into communion with the church of Geneva. The 
French Protestants were called
IIuguenoW*
by
their ad-
versariee,
by way of contempt.
Their fate
was very severe, being persecuted with unparalleled fury ; and though many princes of the blood, and of the first nobility, had embraced their sentiments, yet in no part of the world did the reformers suffer so muchf. At last all commotions were quelled by the fortitude and mag-1 nanimity of Henry IV. who in the year 1598 granted all his subjects full liberty of conscience by the famous Edict of Nantes, and seemed to have thoroughly established the reformation throughout his dominions. Du-ring the minority of Louis XIV. however, this edict was revoked by Cardinal Mazarine, -since which time the Protestants have often been cruelly persecuted ; nor was the profession of the reformed religion in France at any time fo safe as in most other countries of Europe. See Revolution.
In the other parts of Europe the opposition to the church of Rome was but faint and ambiguous before the diet of Augshurg. Before that period, however, it appears from undoubted testimony, that the doctrine of Luther had made a considerable, though probably secret, progress through Spain, Hungary, Bohemia, Britain, Poland, and the Netherlands ; and had in all these countries many friends, of whom several repaired to wittemberg, in order to enlarge their knowledge by means of Luther’s converfation. Some of these countries threw off the Romish yoke entirely, and in others a prodigious number of families embraced the principles of the reformed religion. 'It is certain in-deed, and the Roman-catholics themselves acknowledge it without hesitation, that the Papal doctrines and authority would have fallen into ruin in all parts of the world at once, had not the force of the secular arm been employed to support the tottering edifice. In the Netherlands particularly, the most grievous persecutions took place, fo that by the emperor Charles V. upwards of 100,000 were destroyed, while still greater cruelties were exercised upon the people by his son Philip II. The revolt of the United Provinces, however, and motives of real policy, at last put a stop to these furiou3 proceedings ; and, though in many provinces of the Netherlands, the establishment of the Popish religion was still continued, the Protestants have been long free of the dangeι of persecution on account of their principles.
The reformation made a considerable progress in Spain and Italy foon after the rupture between Luther and the Roman pontiff. In ail the provinces of Italy, but more especially in the territories of venice, Tuscany, and Naples, the superstition of Rome lost ground, and great numbers of people of all ranks expressed an aversion to the Papal yoke. This occafioned violent and dangerous commotions in the kingdom cf Naples in the year 1546 ; which, however, were at last quelled by the united efforts of Charles V. and his viceroy Don Pedro di Toledo. In several places the pope put a stop to the progress of the reformation, by letting lo»fe the inquisitors ; who spread dreadful marks ©f their barbarity through the greattst part of Italy. These formidable ministers of superstition put so many to death, and perpetrated such horrid acts of cruelty and .oppression, that most of the reformed consulted their safety by a voluntary exile, while others returned to the religion of Rome, at least in external appearance. 'But the inquisition, which frighted into the profession 
of
Popery several
Protestants in
other parts of
Italy,
could never make its way
into thc
kingdom of Naples; nor could either the authority or intreaties of the pope engage the NeapoIitans to admit even vifiting in-quisitors.
In Spain, several people embraced the Protestant. religion, not only from the controverses of Luther, but even from those divines whom Charles V. had brought with him into Germany in order to refute the doctrines of Luther. For these doctors imbibed the pre-tended heresy instead of refuting it, and propagated it more or less on their return home. But the inquisition, which could obtain no footing in Naples, reigned triumphant in Spain, and by the most dreadful methods frightened the people back into Popery, and suppresscd the desire of exchanging their superstition for a more rational plan of ιeligion. It was indeed presumed that Charles himfelf died
a
Protestant ; and it seems to be certain, that, when the approach of dcath had dissipated thofe schemes of ambition and grandeur which had fo long blinded him, his sentimeuts became much more rational and agreeable to Christianity than they had ever been. All the ecclesiastics who had attended him, as soon as he expired, were sent to the inquisition, and committed to the flames, or put to death by some other method equally terrible. Such was the fate of Augustine Casal, the emperor’s preacher ; of Constantine Pontius, his confessor ; of Egidius, whom he had named to the bishopric of Tortosa; of Bartholomew de Caranza, a Dominican, who had been confessor to King Philip and Queen Mary ; with 20 others, of less note.
In England, the principles of the reformation began to be adopted as soon as an account of Luther’s doctrines could be conveyed thither. In that kingdom there werc still great remains of the sect called Lo∕-
lardst
whose doctrine resembled that of Luther ; and among whom, of consequence, the sentiments of our reformer gained great credit. Henry VIII. king of England at that time was a violent partisan of the church of Rome, and had a particular veneration for the writings of Thomas Aψιinas. Being informed that Luther spoke of his favourite author with con-tempt, he conceived a violent prejudice "against the reformer, and even wrote against him, as we have already observed. Luther did not hesitate at writing against his majesty, overcame him in argument, and treated him with very little ceremony. The first step towards public reformation, however, was not taken till the year *529. Great complaints had been made in Eng-land, and of a very ancient date, of the usurpations of the clergy ; and by the prevalence of the Lutheran opinions, thefe complaints were now become more general than before. The Houfe of Commons, finding the occasion favourable, passed several bills, restraining the impositions of the clergy : but what threatened the ecclesiastical order with the greatest danger were the severe rt proaches thrown out almost without opposition in the house against the diffolute lives, ambition, and avarice of the priests, and their continual encroach-ments on the privileges of the laity. The bills for regulating the clergy met with opposition in the House of Lords ; and bishop Fisher imputed them to want of faith in the Commons, and to a formed design, pro-ceeding from heretical and Lutheran principles, of robbing the church of her patrimony, and overturning the 
national religion.
The Commons., however, complain-
cd
to
the king, by their speaker Sir Thomas Audley, of thele reflections thrown out against them ; and the. bishop was obliged to retract his words.
Though Henry had not the least idea of rejecting any, even of the most absurd Romish superstitions, yet as the oppressions of the clergy suited very ill with the violence of his own temper, he was pleased with every opportunity of leffening their power. In the parliament of 1531, he showed his design of humbling the clergy in the most effectual manner. An obsolete statute was revived, from which it was pretended that it was criminal to submit to the legatine power which had been exercised by cardinal wolsey. By this ftroke the whole body of clergy was declared guilty at once. They were too well acquainted with Henry’s disposition, however, to reply, that their ruin would have been the certain consequence of their not submitting to wolsey’s commission which had been given by royal authority. Instead of making any defence of this kind, they chose to throw themselves on the mercy of their sovereign ; whieh, however, it coil them 118,8401. to procure. A confession was likewife extorted from them, that the king was protector and supreme head of the church of England ; though some of them had the dexterity to get a clause inferted, which invalidated the whole submission, viz.
in Jo far as is permitted by the law of Chrifl.
The king, having thus begun to reduce the power of the clergy, kept no bounds with them,afterwards. He did not indeed attempt any reformation in religious matters ; nay, he persecuted most violently such as did attempt this in the least. Indeed, the most effential article of his creed seems to have been his own supre-macy ; for whoever denied this, was sure to suffer the most severe penalties, whether Protestant or Papist. But an account of the absurd and cruel conduct of this prince, and of his final quarrel with the pope on aecount of his refusing a dispensation to marry Anne Bo-leyn, is given under the article England, no 253— 292.
He died in 1547, aud was succeeded by his only son Edward VI. This amiable prince, whofe early youth was crowned with that wisdom, sagacity, and virtue, that would have done honour to advanced years, ,gave new spirit and vigour to the Protestant cause, and was its brightest ornament, as west as its most effectual support. He encouraged learned and pious men cf foreign countries to fettle in England, and addres-sed a particular invitation to Martin Bucer and Paul Fagius, whose moderation added a lustre to their other virtues, that, by the ministry and labours of these eminent men, in concert with those of the friends of the Reformation in England, he might purge his domi-nions from the fordid fictions of popery, and establish the pure doctrines of Christianity in their place. For this purpose, he iffued out the wisest orders for the restoration of true religion; but his reign was too short to accomplish fully such a glorious purpose. In the year 1553, he was taken from hrs loving and afflicted -subjects, whose sorrow was inexpressihle, and suited to their loss. His filter Mary (the daughter of Catharine of Arragon, from whom Henry had been separated by the famous divorce), a furious bigot to the elιurch of Rome, and a prîncefs whose natural character, like the spirit of her religion, was despotic and cruel, succeeded him on the British throne, and imposed anew the arbitrary laws and the tyrannical yoke of Rome upon
the 
people of England. Nor were the methods she employed in the eause of superstition better than the cause itself', or tempered by any sentiments of equity or com-. passion. Barbarous tortures and death, in the most shocking forms, awaited those who oppofed her will, or made the least stand against the restoration of Popery. And among many other victims, the learned and pious Cranmer, archbi(hop of Canterbury, who had been one 
ot
the most istustrious instruments of the Reformation in England, fell a sacrisice to her sury. This odious scene of persecution was happily concluded in the year 1558, by the death of the queen, who left no iffιιe ; and, as soon as her succeisor the lady Elizabeth ascended the throne, all things affumed a new and a plealin-∕ afpect. This istustrious princess, whose fentiments°, counsels, and projects, breathed a spirit superior to the natural softness and delicacy of her sex, exerted this vigorous and manly spirit in the defence of oppreffed conscience and expiring liberty, broke anew the de-spotic yoke of Papal authority and superstition, and, delivering her people from the bondage of Rome, established that form of religious doctrine and ecclesiastical government which still subsists in England. This religious establishment differs, in some respects, from the plan that had been formed by those whom Edward VI. had employed for promoting the cause of the Reforma-v
tion, and approaches nearer to the rites and discipline " of former.times ; though it is widely different, and, in the most important points, entirely opposite to the principles of the Roman hierarchy. See England, n0 293., &c.
The cause of the reformation underwent in Ireland the same vicissitudes and revolutions that had attended it in England, when Henry VHL after the abolition of tlie Papal authority, was declared supreme head upon 
eaιtiι
of the church of England, George Brown, a native of England, and a monk of the Augustine order, whom that monarch had created, in the year 1535, archbishop of Dublin, began to act with the utmost vigour in consequence of this change in the hierarchy. He purged the churches of his diocese from superstition in all its various forms, pulled down images, destroyed relics, abolished absurd and idolatrous rites, and, by the influence as west as authority he had in Ireland, caused the king’s supremacy to be acknowledged in that nation. Henry showed, soon after, that this supremacy was not a vain title ; for he banished the monks out of that kingdom, connscated their revenues, and destroyed their couvents. In the reign of Edward VI. ststl farther progress was made in the removal of Popish superstitions, by the. zealous labours of bishop Brown, and the aufpicious encouragement he granted to all who exerted themselves in the cause of the Reformation. But the death of this excellent prince, and the accession of queen Mary, had like to have changed the face of affairs in Ireland as much as in, England ; but her deligns were difappointed by a very curious adventure, of which the following account has been copied from the papers of Richard earl of Cυrke.
" Queen Mary having dealt severely with the Protestants in England, about the latter end of her reign signed a commission for to take the same course with them in Ireland ; and to execute the fame with greater force, she nominates Dr Cole one of the commissioners. This Doctor coming, with the commission, to Chester
on his journey, the mayor of that city hearing that her majesty was fending a meffenger into Ireland, and he being a churchman, waited on the Doctor, who in discourse with the mayor taketh out of a cloke-bag a leather box, faying unto him,
Here is a commjffton that fijall !afii the Heretics of Ireland,
calling the Protestants by that title. The good woman of the house being-well affected to the Proteftant religion, and also having 
a
brother named
John Edmonds
of the same, then a citizen in Dublin, was much troubled at the Doctor’s words ; but watching her convenient time while the mayor took his leave, and the Doctor complimented him down the flairs, she opens the box, takes the commission out, and places in lieu thereof a sheet of paper with a pack of cards wrapt up therein, the knave of clubs being faced uppermost. The Doctor coming up to his chamber, suspecting nothing of what had been done, put up the box as formerly. The next day going to tbe water.side, wind and weather serving him, he fails towards Ireland, and landed on the 7th of Gc-tober 1558 at Dublin. Then coming to the eastle, the Lord Fitz-AYalters being lord-deputy, sent for him to come before him and the privy-council ; who, coming in, after he had made a fpeech relating upon what account he came over, he presents the box unto the lord-deputy ; who causing it to be opened, that the .fecretary might read the commission, there was nothing
save a pack of cards with the knave of clubs uppermost ; which not only startlcd the lord-deputy and council, but the Doctor, who affured them he had a commission, but knew not how it was gone. Then the lord-deputy made answer : Let us have another commission, and we will shuffle the cards in the meanwhile. The Doctor being troubled in his mind, went away, and returned into England, and coming to the court obtained another commission ; but flaying for a wind on the water-iide, news came to him that the queen was dead : and thus God preserved the Protestants of Ireland.” Queen Elizabeth was so delighted with this story, which was related to her by lord Fitz-walter on his return to England, that file sent for Elizabeth Edmonds, whose hushand’s name was
Matterjhad,
and gave her a pension of 40 1. during her life.
In Scotland, the feeds os reformation were very early sown, by several noblemen who had resided in Germany during the religious disputes there. But sor many years it was suppreffed by the power of the pope, seconded by inhuman laws and barbarous executions. The most eminent opposer of the Papal jurisdiction was John Knox, a disciple of Calvin, a man of great zeal and invincible fortitude. On all occasions he raised the drooping spi-rits of the reformers, and encouraged them to go on with their work notwithstanding the opposition and treachery of the queen-regent; till at last, in 1561, by the assistance of an English army sent by Elizabeth, Po-pery was in a manner totally extirpated throughout the kingdom. From this period the form of doctrine, wor-Ihip, and discipline established by Calvin at Geneva, has had the ascendancy in Scotland. But for an account of the difficulties which the Scottish reformers had to struggle with, and the manner ia which these were overcome, &c. see Scotlanb.
For further information on the subject of the reformation in general, we refer our readers to the works of Burnet and Brandt, to Beausobre’s
Hifloire de la 
Reformation duns VEmpire, et les Etats de la
Consesston
d'Augfiourg depuis
1517— 1530, in 4 vols 8vθ, Berlin 1785, and Mosheim’s Ecclesiastical History. . See also Sleidan
De Statu Religionis
f⅛,
Republic# Carolo V. ; Casaris Commentant ;
and Father Paul’s History os the Council of Trent.
REFRACTION, in general, is the deviation of a moving body from its direct course, occasioned by the different density of the medium in which it moves ; or it is a change of direction occasioned by a body’s falling obliquely out os one medium into another. The word is chiefly made use of with regard to the rays of light. See 0ptics
(Index}
at
Refraction.
REFRANGTBILITY
θf Eight, the disposition of rays to be refracted. ∙ The term is chiefly applied to the dispolition of rays to produce different colours, according to their different degrees of resrangibility. See Chromatics and optics
pasftm.
REFRIGERATIVE, in medicyιe, a remedy which resreshes the inward parts by cooling them ; as clysters, ptisans, &c.
REFRIGERATORY, in chemistry, a veffel filled with cold water, through which the worm paffes in di-Λillations ; the ufe of which is to condense the vapours as they pass through the worm.
Cities of REFUGE, were places provided as
Asy-la,
for such as against their will should happen to kill a man. of thefe cities there were three on each side Jordan: on this side were Kedesh of Naphtali, Hebron, and Schechem; beyond Jordan were Bezer, Golan, and Ramoth-Gilead, when any of the Hebrews, or strangers that dwelt in their country, happened to spill the^ blood of a man, they might retire thither to be out of the reach of the violent attempts of the relations of the deceased, and to prepare for their defence and justifica-tion before the judges. Themanstayer underwent two, trials : sirst before the judges of the city of refuge t® which he had fled ; and secondly before the judges of his own city. If found guilty, he was put to death-with all the severity of the law. If he was acquitted, he was not immediately set at liberty ;L>ut, to inspire a degree of horror against even involuntary homicide, he- was reconducted to the place of refuge, and obliged to-continue there in a fort of banishment till the death of the high-priest. If, before this time, he ventured out, the revenger of blood might freely kill him ; but after the high-priest’s death he was at liberty to
go
where he pleased without molestation. It was neceffary that' the person. who fled to any of the csties of refuge ihould underhand some trade or calling, that: he might not be burthensome to the inhabitants. The cities of refuge were required to be well supplied' with water and neceffary provistons. They were also to be of easy access, to have good roads leading to them,, with commodious bridges where there was occasion.. The width of the roads was to be 32 cubits or 48 feet at leash It was further required, that at all cioss-ways direction-polls should be erected, with an inscriptiom pointing cut the road to the cities of refuge. The 15th of Adar,, which answers to our February moonr  was appointed for the city magistrates to see that the roads were in good condition. No person in any of these cities was allowed to make weapons, lest the relations of the deceased should be furnished with the means-of gratifying their revenge. Deut. xix. 3. iv. 41. 43.;;. Josh. xx. 7. Three other cities of refuge were conditionally promised, but
never
granted.
See As v
l u m.
REFUGEES, a term at first applied to the French Protestants, who, by the revocation of the edict of Nantz, were constrained to fly from perseeution, and take refuge in foreign countries. Since that time, however, it has been extended to all such as leave their country in times of distress ; and hence, since the revolt of the Britisii colonies in America, we have frequently heard of
American refugees.
REGALE, a magnificent entertainment or treat, given to ambaisadors and other persons of distinction, to entertain or do them honour.
It is usual in Italy, at the arriv∙al of a traveller of eminence, to send him a regale, that is, a prefent of sweetmeats, fruits, ,&c. by way of refreshment.
REGALIA, in law, the lights and prerogatives of
a
king. See Prerogative.
Regalia is asso used for the apparatus of a coronation ; as the crown, the sceptre with the crofs, that with the dove, St Edward’s staff, the globe, and the erb with the cross, four several swords, &c.—The re-galia of Scotland were depofited in the castle of Edinburgh in the year 1707, in what is called the
Jewel GJfi.ee.
This room was lately opened by some commss-fioners appointed by the king, when the large chest in which it is shpposed they were placed was found ; but as it has not, that we have heard of, been opened, it is impossible to say whether they be there or not. It is very generally thought they were carried to the Tower of London in the reign of Queen Anne ; and a crown is there shewn which is called the Scotch crown. AVe do not believe, however, that that is the real crown of Scotland; and think it probable that the Scotch regalia are in the chest which was lately found. If they are not there, they must have been taken away by stealth, and either destroyed or melted down, for we do not believe that they are in the Tower of London.
Lord
of
REGALITY, in Scots law. See Law, b
0
clviii. 4.
Court
of
REGARD. See
FoRεsτ∙Courts.
REGARDANT, ill heraldry, fignifies looking
be
hind ; and it is used for a lion, or other beast, with his face turned towards his tail.
REGARDER, an ancient officer of the king’s fo-rest, fworn to make the regard of the forest every year ; that is, to take a view of its limits, to inquire into all offences and defaults committed by the foresters within the foreft, and to observe whether all the officers executed their respective duties. See
Foresî-Laιυs.
REGATA, or Regatta, a species of amusement peculiar to the republic of venice. This fpectacle has the power of exciting the greatest emotions of the heart, admiration, enthufiasm, a sense of glory, and the whole train of our best feelings. The grand regata is only exhibited on particular occasions, as the vifits of foreign princes and kings at venice.
It is difficult to givc a just idea of the ardour that the notice of a
regata
spreads among all claffes of the inhabitants of venice. Proud of the exclufive privilege of giving inch a fpectacle, through the wonderful local cir-cumstances of their city, they are highly delighted with making preparations a long tinie before, in order to contribute all they can towards the perfection and enjoyment of the fpectacle. A thousand interests are formed and augmented every day ; parties in favour of the different 
competitors who
are
known
j
the protection of
young
noblemen given to the gondoliers in their service ;
the
deiire ot honours and rewards in the aspirants ; aud, in thc midft of all this, that ingenious national industry, which awakes the Venetians from their habitual indolence, to derive advantage from the bufiness and agita-tioπ of the moment : all these circumstances united give to the numerous inhabitants of this lively city a degree of spirit and animation which render it during that time a delightful abode in the eyes of the philosopher and the stranger. Crowds of people flock from the adjacent parts, and travellers joyfully repair to thi3 scene of gaiety and pleasure.
Although it is allowable for any man to
go
and in-scribe his name in the list of combatants until the fixed number is complete, it will not be amiss to remark one thing, which has relation to more ancient times. The state of a gondolier * is of much confideration among the people ; whieh is very natural, that having been the primitive condition of the inhabitants of this country. But, befides this general confideration, there are among them some families truly distinguished and respected by their equals, whose antiquity is acknowledged, and who, on account of a. succesiion of virtuous men, able in their profession, and honoured for the prizes they have carried oft in these contests, form the body of noble gondoliers ; often more worthy of that title than the higher order of nobility, who only derive their honours from the merit of their ancestors, or from their own riches. The confideration for those families is carried so far, that, in the disputes frequently arifing among· the gondoliers in their ordinary paffage of the canals, we sometimes see a quarrel inffantly made up, by the fimple interpofition of a third person, who has chanced to be of this reverend body. They are rigid with respect to mif∙ alliances in their families, and they endeavour reciprocally to give and take their wives among those of their own rank. But we must remark here, with pleasure, that thefe distinctions infer no inequality of condition, nor admit any oppression of inferiors, being founded solely on laudable and virtuous opinions. Distinctions derived srom fortune only, are those which always out-rage nature, and often virtue.
In general, the competitors at the great regatas
are
chosen from among thele families ol reputation. As soon as they are fixed upon for this exploit, they spend the intermediate time in preparing themselves for it, by a daily assiduous and fatiguing exercise» If they are in service, their masters during that time not only give them their liberty, but asso augment their wages. This custom would seem to indicate, that they look upon them as persons coniecrated to the honour of the nation, and under a fort of obligation to contribute to its glory.
At last the great day arrives. Their relations affem-ble together : they encourage the heroes, by calling to their minds the records of their families ; the women present the oar, beseeching them, in an epic tone, to remember that they are the sons of famous men, whose steps they will be expected to follow : this they do with as much solemnity as the Spartan women presented the shield to their sons, bidding them either return with or upon it. Religion, as practised among the lower class of people,j has its flιare in the preparations for this en» terprize. They cause maffes to be said ; they make vows to some particular church ; and they arm their boats for the contell with, the images of those faint» 
who are most in vogue. Sorcerers are not
forgotten
upon
this occasion. For gondoliers who have lost the race often declare, that witchcraft had been practised against them, or certainly they must have won the day. Such a supposition prevents a poor fellow from thinking ill of himself ; an opinion that might be favourable to him another time.
The course is about four miles. Tlie boats start srom
a
certain place, run through the great winding canal, which divides the town into two parts, turn round a picket-, and, coming back the fame way, go and seize the prize, which is fixed at the acutest angle of the great canal, on the convex side, so that the point of fight may he the more extended, and the prize seized in the sight of the spectators on both sides.
According to the number of competitors, different races are performed in different sorts of boats ; some with ∙ one oar and others with two. The prizes proposed are four, indicated by four flags of different colours, with the different value of the prizes marked upon them.— These flags, public and glorious monuments, are the prizes to which the competitors particularly aspire. But the government always adds to each a genteel sum of money ; befides that the conquerors, immediately after the victory, are surroundtd by all the
beau monde,
who congratulate and make them pref, μts ; after which they go, bearing their honourable trophy in their hand, down the whole length of the canal, and receive the applause of innumerable fpectat0r3.
This grand canal, ever striking by the singularity and beauty of the buildings which border it, is, upon these occasions, covered with an infinity of spectators, in all sorts of barges, boats, and gondolas. The element on whieh they move is searcely seen ; but the noise of' oars, the agitation of arms and bodies in perpetual motion, indicate tbe fpectacle to be upon the water. At certain distances, on each side of the shore, are erected little amphitheatres and scaffoldings, where are placed bands of music ; the harmonious found of which predominates now and then over the buzzing nυile of the people. Some days before a
regata,
one may see on the great canal many boats for pleafιue and entertainment. The young noble, the citizen, the rich artizan, mounts a long boat of six or eight oars ; his gondoliers decorated with rich and singular dreffes, and the veffel itself adorned with various stuffs. Among thc nobles there are always a number who are at a considerable expence in these decorations ; and at the
regate
it-self ' exhibit on the water personages of mythologie story, with the heroes of antiquity in their train, or amufe themselves with representing the costumi of different nations ; in short, people contribute with a mad fort of magnificence, from all quarters, to this masque-rade, the favourite diverlion of the venetians. But these great machines, not being the lefs in motion on account of their ornaments, are not merely destined to grace the show : they are employed at the regata, at every moment, to range the people, to protect the course, and to keep the avenue open and clear to the goal. The nobility, kneeling upon cushions at the prow of their veffels, are attentive to these matters, and announce their orders to the most restive, by darting at them Jittle gilded or silvered balls, by means of certain bows, with which they are furnished on this occasion.
And this is the only appearance of coercion in the VC-uetian police on these days of the greatest tumult : nor is there to be seen, in any part of the city, a body of guards or patrol, nor even a gun or a halbert. The mildness of the nation, its gaiety, its education in the habit os believing that the government is ever awake, that it knows and fees every thing ; its respectfid attachment to the body of patricians ; the sole afpect of certain officers of the police in their robes, dispersed in different places, at once operate and explain that tran-quillity, that security, which we see in the midst os the greatest confusion, and that surprising docility in so lively and fiery a people. Regattas have been attempted on the river Thames, but they were but humble imitations os tbe venetian amusement.
REGEL, or Rigel, a fixed star os the sirst magnitude, in Orion’s lest foot.
REGENERATION, ill theology, the act of being born again by a spiritual birth, or the change os heart and life experienced by a person who sorsakes a course os vice, and sincerely embraces a life os virtne and piety.
REGENSBURG, or Ratisbon. See Ratisbon.
REGENT, one who governs a kingdom during the minority or absence os the king.
In France, the queen-mother had the regency os the kingdom during the minority os the king, under the title os
queen-regent.
In England, the methods os appointir∕ this guardian or regent have been so various, and the duration os his power so uncertain, that srom hence alont it may be collected that his office is unknown to the common law ; aud therefore (as Sir Edward Coke says, 4 Inst. 58.) the surest way is to have him made by authority os the great council in parliament. The earl of Pembroke by his own authority affumed in very troublesome times the regency os Henry III. who was then only nine years old ; but was declared of full age by the pope at 17, confirmed the great charter at ιb, and took upon him the administration os the government at 20. A guardian and councils os regency were named for Edward III. by the parliament, which depofed his father ; the young king being then 1 5, and not affuming the government till three years after, when Richard II. succeeded' at the age of 11, the duke os Lancaster took upon him the management os the kingdom till the parliament met, rvhich appointed a nominal council to affisthim. Henry V. on his death-bed named a regent and a guar-dian sor his infant son Henry VI. then nine months old t but the parliament altered his disposition, and appointed a protector and council, with a special limited authority. Both these princes remained iu a state os pupilage till the age os 23. Edward V. at tlie age os 13, was recommended by his father to the care os the duke of f Gloucester; who was declared protector by the privy-council. The statutes 25 Hen. VIII. c. 12. and 28' Hen. VIII. c. 7. provided, that the fucceisor, if a male and under 18, or if a female and under 16, should he till such age in tbe governance of his or her natural mother, (if approved by the king), and such other counsellors as his majesty should by will or otherwise appoint : and he accordingly appointed his 16 executors· to have the government of his ion Edward VI. and the kingdom, which executors elected the eaιl of Hartford protector. Tlιe statutes 24 Geo. II. c. 24. in case the crown should descend to any of the children of Frederic late prince of wales under the age of 18, appointed the prîncefs dowager ;—and that of 5 Geo. III. c.
27.
in case of a like descent to any ∂f his present majesty’s children, empowers the king to name either the
queen or prîncefs dowager, or any defcεndant of king George If. residing in this kingdom ; — to be guardian and regent till the succeffor attains such age, assisted by √ι council of regency ; the powers of them all being expressly defined and set down.in the several acts.
Regent also signifies a profeffor of arts and sciences iu a college, having pupils under his care ; but it is generally restrained to the lower claffes, as to rhetoric, logic, &c. those of philosophy being called    In
the English universities it is applied to Mailers of Arts under five years standing, and to Doctors under two, as non-regent is to those above that standing.
REGGI0, an ancient and considerable town of Italy, in the kingdom of Naples, and in the Farther Calabria, with an archbishop’s see, and a woollen manufactory. It is · seated in a delightful country, which produces plenty of oranges, and all their kindred fruits. The olives are exquisite, and high-flavoured· The town, however, can boast os neither beautiful buildings nor strong fortifications. 01' its edifices the Gothic cathedral is the only striking one, but it affords nothing curious in architecture. The citadel is far from formidable, according to the present system of tactics : nor could the city walls make a long reiistance against any enemy but Barbary corsairs ; and even tbese they have not always been able to repel, for in 1543 it was laid in ashes by Barbaroffa. Mustapha sacked it 15 years after, and the desolation was renewed in 1593 by another set of Turks. Its expofed situation, on the very threshold of Italy, and fronting Sicily, has from the earliest period rendered it liable to attacks and devastation. The Chal-cidians scized upon it, or, according to the usual Greek phrase, founded it, aud called the colony
Rhegion,
from a word that means a break or crack, alluding to its post-tion on the point where Sicily broke off from the continent. Anaxilas oppreffed its liberties. Dionysius the Elder took it, and put many of the principal citizens to death, in revenge for their having refufed his alliance.. The Campanian legion, sent to protect the Rhegians, turned its sword against them, maffacred many inhabitants, and tyrannized over the remainder, till the Roman senate thought proper to punish these traitors with exemplary severity, though at the same time it entered into kagιιe with the revolted garrifon of Messina. This union with a set of villains, guilty of the same crime, proved that no love of justice, but political reasons alone, drew down its vengeance on the Campanians.— It is about 12 miles S.j E. of Messina, and 190 S. by E. of Naples. E. Long. 16. ο. N. Lat. 38. 4.
Reggio, an ancient, handfome, and strong town of Italy, in the duchy of Modena, with a strong citadel, and a bishop’s fee. It has been ruined several times by the Goths, and other nations. In the cathedral are paintings by the greatest masters ; and in the square is the statue of Brennus, chief of the Gauls. The inhabitants are about 22,
coo,
who carry on a great trade in silk. It was taken by prince Eugene in 1706, and by the king cf Sardinia in 1742. It is seated in a fertile country to the fouth of the Apennines, and to the north of a lpacious plain, 15 miles north-weft of Modena, and 80 south-east of Milan. E. Long. 11. 5. N. Lat. 44. 43. —The duchy of this name is bounded on the west by that of Modena, and produces a great deal of silk, and belongs to the duke of Modena, except the marquifate 
cf
St Martin, which belongs to a prince of that name.
REGIAM majestatem. See Law, n5 civ. 3. REGICIDE, king-killer, a word chiefly used
with us in speaking of the persons concerned in the trial, condemnation, and execution, of king Charles I.
REG1FUGJUM was a feast celebrated at Rome on the 24th of February, in commemoration of the expυl-sion of
Tcirquinius Snperbm,
and tlie abolition ot regal power. It was alio performed on the 26th of May, when the king of the iacrifices, or
Rex Sacrorι∩ni
offered bean flour and bacon, in the place where the affemblies were held. The sacrifice being over, the people hailed away with all speed, to denote the precipitate flight of King Tarquin.
REGIMEN, the regulation of diet, and, in a more general fenle, of all the non-naturals, with a view to preserve or restore health. See Abstinence, Aliment, Food, Diet, Drink, and Medicine.
The vicissitude of excrcise and rest forms also a neceffary part of regimen. See Exercise.
it is beneficial to be at rest now and then, ’ but more so frequently to use exercise ; because inaction renders the body weak and listless, and labour strengthens it. But a medium is to be observed in all things, and too much fatigue is to be avoided : for frequent and violent exercise overpowers the nat ural strength, and wastes thc body ; but moderate exercise ought always to be used before meals. Now, of all kinds of exercise, riding on horfeback is the molt convenient : or if the person be too weak to bear it, riding in a coach, or at least in a litter : next follow fencing, playing at ball, running, walking. But it is one of the inconveniences of old age, that there, is seldom sussicient strength for using bodily exercise, though it be extremely requistte for health:. wherefore frictions with the flesh-brush are neceffary at this time of life ; which should be performed by the perfon himself, if possible ; if not, by his servants.
Sleep is the sweet soother of cares, and restorer of streifbth ; as it repairs and replaces the wastes that are made by the labours and exercises of the day. But excessive sleep has its inconveniences ; for it blunts the senses, and renders them less fit for the duties of life. The proper time for sleep is the night, when darknefi>-and filence invite and bring it on : day-sleep is less re·· freshing ; which rule if it be proper sor the multitude to observe, much more is the observance of it neceffary for persons addicted to literary studies, whofe minds and bodies are more fiιfcept⅛le os injuries.
Regimen, in grammar, that part of syntax, or construction, which regulates the dependency of words, and the alterations which one occaiions in another.
Regimen for Seamen.
See Seamen.
REGIMENT, is a body of men, either horse, foot, or artillery, commanded by a colonel, lieutenant-colonel, and major. Each regiment of foot is divided into companies ; but the number of companies differs : though in Britain our regiments are generally 10 companies, one of which is always grenadiers, exclusive of the two independent companies. Regiments of horfe are commonly six troops, but there are fome of nine. Dragoon regiments are generally in war-time 8 troops, and in time of peace but 6. Each regiment has a chaplain, quarter-master, adjutant, and surgeon. Some German regiments consist of 2000 foot ; and the regiment of Picardy in France confisted of 6000, being 120 companies, of 50 men in each company.
7
Regiments were sirst formed in France in the year 1558, and in England in the year 1660.
REGIOMONTANUS. See Muller.
REGION, in geography, a large extent os land, in-habited by many people of the same nation, and inclosed within certain limits or bounds.
The modern astronomers divide the moon into several regions, or large tracts of land, to each of which they give its proper name.
Region, in physiology, is taken for a division of our ■atmosphere, which is divided into the upper, middle, and Iower regions.
The upper region commences from the tops of the -mountains, and reaches to the utmost limits of the at-mosphere. In this region reign a perpetual, equable, calmness, clearness, and serenity. The middle region is that in which the clouds reside, and where meteors are formed, extending from the extremity of the lowest to the tops of the highest mountains. The lowest region is that in which we breathe, which is bounded by the reflection of thc fun’s rays ; or by the height to which they rebound from the earth. See Atmosphere and Air.
Æthereal Region,
in cofmography, is the whole ex-tent of the universe, in which is included all the heavenly bodies, and even the orb of the fixed stars.
Elementary Region,
according to the Aristotelians, is
a
sphere terminated by the concavity of the moon’s orb, comprehending the atmosphere of the earth.
Region, in anatomy, a division of the human body, otherwise ealled
cavity,
of which anatomists reckon three, viz. the upper region, or that of the head ; the middle region, that of the thorax or breast ; and the lower, the abdomen, or belly. See Anatomy.
Region, in ancient Rome, was a part or diviston of •the city. The regions were only four in number, till Augustus Cæiar’s time, who divided the city into fourteen ; over each of which he fettled two furveyors, called
curatores viarum,
who were appointed annually, and took their divisions by lot. These fourteen regions contained four hundred and twenty-four streets, thirty-one of which were called
greater
or
royal Jlreets,
which began at the gilt pillar that stood at the entry of the open place, in the middle of the city. The extent of these divisions varied greatly, some being from 12000 or 13000 to 33000 feet or upwards in circumference. Authors, however, are not agreed as to the exact limits of each. The curatores viarum wore the purple, had each two lictors in their proper divilions, had slaves under them .to take care of fires, that happened to break ■out. They had also two officers, called
denunciatores,
in each region, to give account of any disorders. Four 
vιco-rnagijlri
also were appointed in each street, who took care of the streets allotted them, and carried the orders of the city to each citizen.
REGIS 1ER, a public book, in which are entered and recorded memoirs, acts, and minutes, to be had recourse to occafionally for knowing and proving matters of fact. Οί these there are several kinds ; as,
i. Register of deeds in Yorkshire and Middlesex, in which are registered all deeds, conveyances, wills, &c\ -that affect any lands or tenements in those counties, which are otherwife void against any subfequent pur-■chafers or mortgagees, &c. but this does not extend to 
any copyhold estate, nor to leases at a rack-rent, or 
where they do not exceed 21 years. The registered memorials must be ingroffed on parchment, under the hand and scal of some of the granters or grantees, at-tefted by witneffes who are to prove the signing or seal· ing of them and the execution of the deed. But these registers, which are confined to two counties, are in Scotland general, by which the laws of North Britain are rendered very easy and regular. Οί these there are two kinds ; the one general, fixed at Edinburgh, under the direction of the lord-register ; and the other is kept in the several shires, stewartries, and regalities, the clerks of which are obliged to transmit the registers of their respective courts to the general register.
2. Parissi-registers are books in which are registered the baptifms, marriages, and burials, of each parisli.
Registers were kept both at Athens and Rome, in which were inferted the names of such children as were to be brought up, as foon as they were born. Marcus Aurelius required all free persons to give in accounts of their children, within 30 days after the birth, to the treasurer of the empire, in order to their being depofited in the temple of Saturn, where the public acts were kept, officers were also appointed aa public registers in the provinces, that recourse might be had to their lifts of names, for settling disputes, or pro-ving any person’s freedom.
Register Ships,
in commerce, are veffels which ob-tain a permission either from the king of Spain, or the council of the Indies, to traffic in the ports of the Spanish weft Indies ; which are thus called, from their being registered before they set sail from Cadiz for Buenos Ayres.
REGISTERS, in chemistry, are holes, or chinks with stopplea, contrived in the fides of furnaces, to regulate the fire ; that is, to make the heat more intensc or remifs, by opening them to let in the air, .or keeping them close to exclude it. There are also registers in the steam-engine. See
SτκAM-Enfine.
REGISTRAR, an officer in the English universi-ties, who has the keeping of all the public records.
REGIUM, Regi um
Lepidi, Regium Lepidum,
(anc. geog.); a town of Cifalpine Gaul, on the via Æmilia, so called from Æmilius Lepidus, who was consul with C. Flaminius ; but whence it was surnamed
Regium
is altogether uncertain. Tacitus relates, that at the battle of Bedriacum, a bird of an unusual size was seen perching in a famous grove near Regium Lepidum. Now called
Reggio,
a city of Modena. E. Long. 11. ο. N. Lat. 44. 45. See Reggio.
REGNARD (John Francis), one of the best French comic writers after Moliere, was born at Paris in 1647⅛ He had scarcely finissied his studies, when an ardent passion for travelling carried him over the greatest part of Europe, when he fettled in his own country, he was made a treasurer of France, and lieutenant of the waters and forests : he wrote a great many comedies ; and, though naturally of a gay genius, died of chagrin in the 52d year or his age. His works, conststing of comedies and travels, werc printed at Rouen, in 5 vola I2mo, 1732.
REGNIER (Mathurin), the first French poet wh© succeeded in satire, was born at Chartres in 1573. He was brought up to the church, a place for which his debaucheries rendered him very unfuitable ; and these by 
his own confessioh were so excessive, that at 30 he
had
aII the infirmities of age. Yet he obtained a canonry in the church of Chartres, with other benefices ; and died in 1613. There is a neat EIzevir edition of his works, 12mo, 1652, Leyden; but the most elegant is that with notes by M. Brosiette, 4t0, 1729, London.
Regnier des Makets (Seraphin), a French poet, born at Paris in 1632. He distinguished himself early by his poetical talents, and in 1684 was made perpetual fecretary to the French academy on the death ofMe-zeray : it was he who drew up all those papers in the name of the academy against Furetiere : the king gave him the priory of Grammont, and he had also an ab-bey. He died in ⅛ 713, and his works are, French, I-talian, Spanish, and Latin poems, 2 vols ; a French grammar; and an Italian translation of Anacreon’s odes, with some t>ther translations.
REGNUM (anc. geog.), a town of the Regni, a people in Britain, next the Cantii, now Surry, Sussex, and the coast of Hampshire, (Camden) ; a town situated, by the Itinerary numbers, on the confines of the Belgæ, in a place now called
Ringwood,
in Hampshire, on the rivulet Avon, running down from Salishury, and about ten miles or more distant from the sea.
REGRATOR, signifies him who buys and fells any wares or victuals in the
fame
market or fair : and regra-tυrs are particularly described to be those who buy, or get into their hands, in fairs or markets, any grain, fish, butter, cheese, sheep, lambs, calves, swine, pigs, geese, capons, hens, chickens, pigeons, conies, or other dead victuals whatsoever, brought to a fair or market to be fold there, and do fell the same again in the same fair, market, or place, or in some other within four miles thereof.
Regrating is a kind of
huckftry,
by which victuals are made dearer ; for every feller will gain something, which mnst of consequence enhance the price. And, in ancient times, both the engrosser and regrator were comprehended under the word
fοreβαller.
Regrators are punishable by loss and forfeiture of goods, and imprisonment, according to the first, second, or third offence, &c.
REGENSBERG, a handsome, though small town of Swisserland, in the canton of Zurich, and capital of a bailiwick of the fame name, with a strong castle ; seat-cd on a hill, which is part of Mount Jura. There is a well sunk through a rock, 36 fathoms deep.
REGULAR, denotes any thing that is agreeable to the rules of art : thus we say, a regular building, verb, &c.
A regular figure, in geometry, is one whose sides, and consequently angles, are equal ; and a regular figure with three or four sides is commonly termed an
equilateral triangle
or
square,
as all others with more sides are called
regular polygons.
Regular, in a monastery, a person who has taken the vows ; becaufe he is bound to observe the rules of the order he has embraced.
REGULATION, a rule or order prescribed by a superior, for the proper management of some affair.
REGULATOR
of a
watch, the small spring belonging to the balance ; ferving to adjust its motions, and make it go faster or flower. See watch.
REGULBIUM, or Regulvium, (Notitia Impe-rii) ; mentioned nowhere else more early: a town of
the
Cantii, in Britain, Now Reculver,
a
village on
the
coast, near the island Tshanet, towards the Thames,
to
thc north of Canterbury, (Camden).
REGULUS (M. Attilius), a conful during the first Punic war. He reduced Brundusium, and in his second consulship he took 64 and funk 30 galleys of the-Carthaginian fleet, on the coasts of Sicily.* Afterwards he landed in Africa 5 and fo rapid was his success, that in a short time he made himself master of about 200 places of consequence on the coast. The Carthaginians sued for peace, but the conqueror refused to grant it ; and soon after he was defeated in a battle by Xanthip-pus, and 30,000 of his men were left on the field of battle, and 15,000 taken prisoners. Regulus was in the number of the captives, and he was carried in triumph to Carthage. He was sent by the enemy to Rome, to propose an accommodation and an exchange of prisoners ; and if his commiffiôn was unsuccessful, he was bound by the most solemn oaths to return to Car-thage without delay, when he came to Rome, Regulus dissuaded his countrymen from accepting the· terms which the enemy proposed ; and when his opi-nion had had due influence on the senate, Regulus reti-red to Carthage agreeable to his engagements. The Carthaginians were told that their offers of peace had been rcjected at Rome by the means of Regulus ; and therefore they prepared to punish him with the greatest severity. His eye-brows were cut, and he was expofed’ for some days to the excessive heat of the meridian sun, and afterwards confined in a barrel, whose fides were everywhere filled with large iron spikes, till he died in the greatest agonies. His sufferings were heard of at Rome ; and the senate permitted his widow to inflict-whatever punishment she pleased on some of the most illustrious captives of Carthage which were in their hands. She confined them also in presses filled with sharp iron points ; and was so exquifite in her cruelty, ' that the senate interfered, and stopped the barbarity of her punishment. Regulus died about 251 years before Christ.—Memmius, a Roman, made governor of Greece by Caligula, while Regulus was in his province, the emperor wished to bring thç celebrated statue of Jupiter olympius by Phidias to Rome, but this was supernatu-rally prevented ; and according to ancient authors, the ship which was to convey it was destroyed by lightning, and the workmen who attempted to remove the statue
were terrified away by sudden noises__A man who
condemned Sejanus.—Roscius, a man who held the con-sulship but for one day, in the reign of vstellius.
Regulus, in chemistry, an imperfect metallic stib-shance that falls to the bottom of the crucible, in thc melting os ores or impure metallic fubstances. It ia the sinest or purest part of the metal j and, according, to the alchemists, is denominated
regulus,
or
little king, 
as being the sirstshorn of the royal metallic blood. Ac-cording to them, it is really a son, but not a perfect man ;
i. e.
not yet a perfect metal, for want of time and proper nourishment. To procure the regulus oΓ mercurial parts of metals, &c. flux powders are commonly used ; as nitre, tartar, &c. which purge the sul-phureous part adhering to the metal, hy attracting and absorbing it to themselves.
Regulus of Antimony.
See Chemistry,, n0 1252 —1257 ; and fee
Index
there, at
Antimony.
Regulus of Arfenic.
See Chemistry, no 1267, &c*
and 1285—1294. The ancient process for making re-
gulua of arsenic consisted in mixing four parts of arsenic with two parts of black flux, one part of borax, and one part of filings of iron or of copper, and quickly fusing the mixture in a crucible. After the operation is finish-ed, a regulus of arsenic will be found at the bottom of the crucible of a white livid colour, and of confiderable solidity. The iron and copper employed in this pro-cess are not intended, as in the operation for the martial regulus of antimony, to precipitate the arsenic, and to separate it from sulphur or any other substance; for the white arsenic is pure, and nothing is to be taken from it; but, on the contrary, the inflammable principle is to be added to reduce it to a regulus. The true use oi these metals in the present operation is to unite with the regulus of arsenic, to give it more body, and to prevent its entire dissipation in vapours. Hence the addition os iron, while it procures these advantages, has the in-conveniency of altering the purity of the regulus : for the metallic substance obtained is a regulus of arsenic allayed with iron. It may, however, be purified srom the iron by sublimation in a clofe veffel ; by which operation the regulised arsenical part, whieh is very volatile, is fublimed to the top of the veffel, and is separated from the iron, which being of a fixed nature remains at the bottom. λVe are not, however, very certain, that in this kind of rectification the regulus of arsenic does not carry along with it a certain quantity of iron ; for, in general, a volatile substance raises along with it, in sublimation, a part of any fixed matter with which it happened to be united.
Mr Brandt proposes another method, which we believe is preferable to that described. He directs that white arsenic ssiould be mixed with soap. Instead of the soap, olive-oil may be used, which has been found to succeed well. The mixture is to be put into a retort or glass matrass, and to be distilled or fublimed with fire, at fiist very moderate, and only sussicient to raise thc oil. As the oils, which are not volatile, cannot be distilled but by a heat sufficient to burn and decoπv pose them, the oil therefore which is mixed with the arsenie undergoes these alterations, and after having penetrated the arsenic thoroughly ls reduced to a coal, when no more oily vapours rise, we may then know that the oil is reduced to coal. Then the fire must be increased, and the metallised arsenie will be soon sublimed to the upper part of the veffel, in the inside of which it will form a metallic cruft, when no more sublimes, the veffel is to be broken, and the adhering crust of regulus of arsenic is to be separated. The regulus obtained by this first operation is not generally perfect, or not entirely so, as a part of it is always overcharged with fuliginous matter, and another part has not enough of phlogiston ; which latter part adheres to the inner suiface of the crust, and forms grey 
■or
brown crystals. This sublimate must then be mixed
with a less quantity of oil, and sublimed a second time like the first ; and even, to obtain as good regulus as may be made, a third sublimation in a close vestel, and without oil, is neceffary. During this operation, the oil whieh rises is more fetid than any other empyreu-matic oil, and is almost iiisupportable. This smell certainly proceeds from the arsenic ; the smell of which is exceedingly strong and disagreeable when heated.
' Regulus of arsenic made by the method we have de-scribed, and which we confider as the only one which is pure, has ail the properties os a semimetal. It has metallic gravity, opacity, and lustre. Its colour is white and livid, .it tarnishes in the air, is very brittle, but much more volatile than any other semime£al. It easily lofes its inflammable principle, when sublimed in veffels into which the air has aeeess ; the fι>blimate having the appearance of grey flowers, which by repeated sublimations become entirely white, and similar to white cryllalline arsenic. when regulus of arsenic is heated quickly and strongly in open air, as under a muffle, it burns with a white or bluissi flame, and dis-sipates in a thick fume, which has a very fetid sinell, like that of garlic.
Regulus of arsenic may be combined with acids and most metals. See Arsenic, nQ 17. we shall only far-ther observe here, that, according to Mr Brandt, in the Swedish Memoirs, the regulus of arfenic cannot be united with mercury. Although the phenomena exhibited by white arsenic and regulus of arsenie in so-lutions and allays are probably the lame, yet an accurate comparison of thefe would defer ve notice, especially if the regulus employed were well made; for some difference must proceed from the greater or less quantity of what in the old chemistry is called phlogiston with which it is united. See Chemistry, n0 1288, &c.
Regulus of Cobalt,
is a semimetal lately discovered, and not yet perfectly well known. It receives its name from cobalt, becaufe it can only be extracted from the mineral properly so called. The process by which this semimetal is obtained, is fimilar to those generally uied for the extraction of metals from their ores. The co-balt must be thoroughly torrified, to deprive it of all the sulphur and arsenic it contains ; and the unmetallic earthy and stony matters must be feparated by washing. The cobalt thus prepared is then to be mixed with double or triple its quantity of black flux, and a little decrepitated sea-salt; and must be fufed either in a forge or in a hot furnace, for this ore is very difficult of fu-fion. when the fuston has been well made, we find upon breaking the crucible, after it has cooled, a metallic regulus covered with a scoria of a deep blue co· lour. The regulus is of a white metallic colour. The surface of its fracture is close and small-grained. The semimetal is hard, but brittle, when the fusion has been well made, its lurface appears to be carved with many convex threads, which cross each other diversely. As almoft all cobalts contain also bismuth, and even as much as of the regulus itself, this bismuth is reduced by the fame operation, and precipitated in the same manner, as the regulus of cobalt ; for although these two metals are frequently mixed in the same mineral, that is, in cobalt, they are incapable of uniting toge-ther, and are always found distinct aud separate from one another when they are melted together. At the bottom of the crucible then we find both regulus of cobalt and bisinuth. The latter, having a greater spe-cisie gravity, is found under the former. They may be
separated from each other by the blow of a hammer. Bismuth may be easily distinguished from the regulus of cobalt, not only from its situation in the crucible, but also by the large ihining facets which appear in its fracture, aud which are very different from the elose ash* coloured grain of regulus of cobalt.
This semimetal is more- difficult of fusion. than any
other ; is less easily calcinable, and much less volatile. Its calx is grey, and more or less brown ; and whcn fu-sed with vitrifiable matters, it changes into a beautiful blue glass called
fmah.
This calx, then, is one of those which preserve always
a
part of their inflammable prin-ciple. lst is foluble in acids, as the regulus is. This regulus is foluble in vitriolic, marine, nitrous acids, and in aqua-regia, to all which it communicates colours. The solution in vitriolic acid is reddish ; the folution in marine acid is of a fine bluish-green when hot, and its colour is almost totally effaced when cold, but is easily recoverable by heating it, without being obliged 
to
uncork the bottle containing it. This folution
of 
the calx of regulus of cobalt is the basis of the sympa-thetic ink ; for without marine acid this ink cannot be made. All the solutions of regulus of cobalt may be precipitated by alkalis ; and these precipitates are blue, which colour they retain when vitrisied with the strong-est fire.
Not only sympathetic ink, but also regulus of cobalt, may be made from the ∙zaffre commonly fold ; which is nothing else than the calx of regulus of cobalt mixed with more or less pulverised flints. For this purpofe we must separate as well as we can the powder of flints from it, by washing, as M. Beaumé docs, and then reduce it with black flux and sea-falt. Regulus of cobalt seems incapable of uniting with sulphur : but it easily unites with liver of sulphur ; and the union it forms is so intimate, that M. Beaumé could not sepa-rate these two fubstances otherwise than by precipita-tion with an acid.
Many curious and interesting remarks are stili to be discovered concerning this singular semimetal, and we may hope to receive further information from the en-deavours of chemists who have undertaken the exami-nation of it. M. Beaumé particularly has made considerable experiments on this subject, part of which he communicates to the public in his Course of Chemistry, and from whom we have borrowed the most of the above observations. See C⅛hemistry, no 1294, &c.
REHEARSAL, in music and the drama, an effay βr experiment of some composition, generally made in private, previous to its representation or performance in public, in order to render the actors and performers more perfect in their parts.
REICHENBERG, in Bohemia, 95 miles west of Prague, 205 north-west of vienaa, N. Lat. 50. 2. E. Long. 12. 25. is only remarkable as the place where the Pruffian army defeated the Austrians on the 2ist of April 1757. The Austrian army, commanded by Count Konigfeck, was ported near Reichenberg, and was attacked by the Prussians under the command of the prince of Brunswick Bevern. The Prussians were 20,000, and the Austrians 28,000 : the action began at half after six in the morning, when the Prussian lines were formed, and attacked the Austrian cavalry, which was ranged in three lines of 30 fquadrons, and their two wings fustained by the infantry, which was posted among felled trees and intrenchments. The Austrians had a village on their right, and a wood on their left, where they were intrenched. The Pruffian dragoons and grenadiers cleared the intrenchment and wood, and entirely routed the Austrian cavalry ; at the fame time, the redoubts that covered Reichenberg were taken by General Lestewitz ; and
the Austrians were entirely 
defeated. The Pruffiιns had feven officers and 100 men killed; 14 officers and 150 men wounded. The Austrians had 1000 men killed and wounded ; 20 of their officers and 400 men taken prisoners. The action ended at eleven.
REIN-dber, or
Tarandus.
See Cervus, n0 4.
REINS, in anatomy, the same with Kidneys. See Anatomy, no ιοί.
Reins
of a Bridle,
are two long flips of leather, fastened on each side of a curb or fnaflle, which the rider holds in his hand, to keep the horse in fubjection.
There ia alfo what is called
falfe reins ;
which is a lath of leather, passed fometim,εs through the arch of the banquet, to bend the horsc’s neck.
REJOINDER, in law, is the defendant’s answer to the plaintiff’s replication or reply. Thus, in the court of chancery, the defendant puts in an answer to the plaintiff’s bill, which is sometimes also called an
exception ;
the plaintlss’s anfwer to that is called a
replication,
and the defendant’s anfwer to that a
rejoindre.
RELAND (Adrian), an eminent orientalist, born at Ryp, in North Holland, in 1676. During three years study under Surenhusius, he made an uncommon progress in the Hebrew, Syriac, Chaldee, and Arabic languages ; and these languages were always his fa-vourite study. In 1701, he was, by the recommendation of King william, appointed profeffor of oriental languages and ecclesiastical· antiquities in the university of Utrecht ; and died of the fmall-pox in 1718. Hc was distinguifiied by his modesty, humanity, and learning ; and carried on a correspondence with the most eminent scholars of his time. His principal works are, 
I.
An excellent defcription of Palestine. 2. Five dis-sertations on the Medals of the ancient Hebrews, and feveral other differtations on different subjects. 3. Au Introduction to the Hebrew Grammar. 4. The
An-
tiqιιities of the ancient Hebrews. 5. Οη the Mahometan Religion. Thefe works are all written in Latin.
RELATION, the mutual refpect of two things, or what each is with regard to the other. See Metaphysics, no 93, &c. and 128, &c.
Relation, in geometry. See Ratio.
Relation, is alfo used for analogy. See Ανλ-logy, and Metaphysics, p. 529, &c.
RELATIVE, somefhing relating to or respectshg another.
Rrlative, in music. See Mode.
RεLAτtvε-Terms,
in logic,· are words which impIy relation : such are master and servant, hushand and wife, &c.
In. grammar, relative words are those which answer to fome other word foregoshg, called the
antecedent ; 
such are the relative pronouns
qui, qux, quod,
&c. and in English,
who, whom, which,
&c. The word an-swering to these relatives is often understood, as, " I know whom you mean,” for " I know the person whom you mean.”
RELAXATION, in medicine, the act of loosenshg or flackening ; or the looseness or flackness of the fibres, nerves, muscles, &c.
RELAY, a supply of horses, placed on the road, and appointed to be ready for a traveller to change, in order to make the greater expedition.
RELEASE, in law, is a discharge or conveyance os a man’s right in lands or tenements, to another that
hath some former estate in poffeffion. The words
ge
nerally used therein are " remised, released, and for ever quit-claimed.” And these releases may enure, either, I. By way of
enlarging an eflate,
or
enlarger l'efiate :
as, if there be tenant for life or years, re-mainder to another in fee, and he in remainder releases all his right to the particular tenant and his heirs, this gives him the estate in fee. But in this case the relessee mult be in
pofieffion
of some estate, for the release to work upon ; for if there be lessee for years, and, before he enters and is in poffeffion, the lessor releases to him all his right in the reversion, such release is void sor want of poffeffion in the relessee. 
2.
By way of
pfifing an efiate,
or
mitter l, eβate :
as, when one of two coparceners rcleaseth all his right to the other, this passeth the fee-simple of the whole. And, in both these cases, there must be a privity of estate between the relessor and relessee ; that is, one of their estates must be so related to the other, as to make but one and the same estate in law. 3. By way of
pa[fiηg a right,
or
mitter le droit :
as if a man be disseifed, and releafeth to his disseifor all his right ; hereby the disseifor acquires a new right, which changes the quality of his estate, and renders that lawful which before was tortious. 4. By way of
extinguishment : 
as if my tenant for life makes a lease to A for life, re-mainder to B and his heirs, and
I
release to A ; this extinguishes my right to the reversion, and shall enure to the advantage of B’s remainder as well as of A’s particular estate. 5. By way of
entry and feoffment : 
as if there be two joint disseifors, and the disseisee releases to one of them, he shall be fole feised, and shall keep out his former companion ; which is the same in effect as if the disseisee had entered, and thereby put an end to the disseisin, and afterwards had enfeoffed one of the disseifors in fee. And hereupon we may observe, that when a man has in himself the possession of lands, he must at the common law convey the free-hold by feoffment and livery ; which makes a noto-riεty in the country : but if a man has only a right or 
a
future interest, he may convey that right or interest by a mere release to him that is in possession of the land : for the occupancy of the relessee is a matter of lufficient notoriety already.
RELEVANCY, in Scots law. See
Law,
No clxxxvi. 48.
RELICS, in the Romish church, the remains of the bodies or clothes of saints or martyrs, and the in-struments by which they were put to death, devoutly preserved, in honour to their memory ; kissed, revered, and carried in procession.
The respect which was justly due to the martyrs and teachers of the Christian faith, in a few ages increased almost to adoration ; and at length adoration was really paid both to departed saints and to relics of holy men or holy things.. The abuses of the church of Rome, with respect to relics, are very flagrant and notorious. For such was the rage for them at one time, that, as F. Mabillon a Benedictine justly complains, the altars were loaded with suspected relics ; numerous spurious ones being everywhere offered to the piety and devotion of the faithful. He adds, too, that bones are of
ten
consecrated, which, so far from belonging to saints, probably do not belong to Christians. From the cata
combs numerous relics have been taken,, and yet it is
not known who were the persons interred therein. In the nth century, relics were tried by fire, and thofe which did not consume were reckoned genuine, and the rest not. Relics were, and still are, preserved on the altars whereon mass is celebrated ; a square hole being made in the middle of the altar, big enough to re-ceive the hand, and herein is the relic deposited, be-ing first wrapped in red silk, and inclosed in a leaden box.
The Romanists plead antiquity in behalf of relics : For the Manichees, out of hatred to the flesh, which they considered as an evil principle, refused to,honour the relics of saints ; which is reckoned a kind of proof that the Catholics did it in thc first ages.
we know, indeed, that the touching of linen cloths on relics, from an opinion of some extraordinary virtue derived therefrom, was as ancient as th¢ first ages, there being a hole made in the coffins of the 40 martyrs at Constantinople expressly for this purpose. The honouring the relics of saints, on which the church of Rome afterwards founded her superstitious and lucrative use of them, as objects of devotion, as a kind of charms or amulets, and as instruments of pretended miracles, appears to have originated in a very ancient custom, that prevailed among Christians, of affembling at the cemeteries or burying-places of the martyrs, for the purpose of commemorating them, and of performing divine worship. when the profeffion of Christianity obtained the protection of the civil government, under Constantine the Great, stately churches were erected over their sepulchres, and their names and memories were treated with every poffible token of affection and respect. This reverence, however, gradually exceeded all reasonable bounds ; and those prayers and religious services were thought to have a peculiar sanctity and virtue, which were performed over their tombs. Hence the practice which afterwards obtained, of depofiting relics of saints and martyrs under the altars in all churches. This practice was then thought of such importance, that St Ambrose would not consecrate a-church because it had no relics ; and the council of Constantinople in Trullo ordained, that those altars· shonld be demolished under which there were found no relics. The rage of procuring relics for this and other purposes of a similar nature, became so exceffive, that in 386 the emperor Theodofius the Great was obliged to pass a law, forbidding the pcople to dig up the bo-dies of the martyrs, and to traffic in their relics.
Such was the origin of that respect for sacred relics», which afterwards was perverted into a formal worship of them, and became the occafion of innumerable pro-ceffions, pilgrimages, and miracles, from which the church of Rome hath derived incredible advantage.— In the end of the ninth century, it was not sufficient to reverence departed saints, and to confide in their inter-ceffions and succours, to clothe them with an imaginary power of healing diseases, working miracles, and delivering from all forts of calamities and dangers ; their bones, their clothes, the apparel and furniture they had poffeffed during their lives, the very ground which they had touched, or in which their putrified carcases were laid, were treated with a stupid veneration, and supposed to retain the marvellous virtue of healing all disorders both of body and mind, and of defending such as pof-
seffed them against all the assaults and devices of
the de-
vil.
The confequence of all this was, that
every
one was eager to provide himself with these salutary reme-dies ; consequently, great numbers undertook fatiguing and perilous voyages, and subjected themselves to all sorts of hardships ; while others made use of this delu-fion to accumulate their riches, and to impofe upon the miserable multitude by the most impious and shocking inventions. As the demand for relics was prodigious and universal, the clergy employed the utmost dex-terity to satisfy all demands, and were far from being nice in the methods they used for that end. The bo-dies of the saints were fought by fasting and prayer, in-stituted by the priest in order to obtain a divine answer and an infallible direction, and this pretended direction never failed to accomplish their desires ; the holy car-cafe was always found, and that always in consequence, as they impiously gave out, of the suggestion and infpi-ration of God himself. Each difcovery of this kind was attended with exceffive demonstrations of joy, and animated the zeal of thefe devout feekers to enrich the church still more and more with this new kind of trea-sure. Many travelled with this view into the Eastern provinces, and frequented the places which Christ and his disciples had honoured with their presence, that, with the bones and other sacred remains of the first he-ralds of the gospel, they might comfort dejected minds, ■calm trembling confciences, fave finking states, and de-fend their inhabitants from all forts of calamities. Nor did thefe pious travellers return home empty ; the craft, dexterity, and knavery of the Greeks, found a rich prey in the stupid credulity of the Latin relic-hunters, and made a profitable commerce of this new devotion. The latter paid considerable sums for legs and arms, ikulls and jaw-bones (several of which were Pagan, and some not human), and other things that were supposed to have belonged to the primitive worthies of the Christian church ; and thus the Latin churches came to the possession of those celebrated relics of St Mark, St James, St Bartholomew, Cyprian, Pan-taleon, and other?, which they show at this day with fo much ostentation. But there were many who, un-able to procure for themselves these spiritual treasures by voyages and prayers, had recourse to violence and theft ; for all sorts of means, and all forts of attempts in a cause of this nature, were considered, when fuccess-ful, as pious and acceptable to the Supreme Being.— Besides the arguments from antiquity to which the Pa-pists refer, in vindication of their worship of relics, of which the reader may form some judgment from this article, Bellarmine appeals to Scripture in support of it, and cites the following passages, viz. Exod. xiii. 19. ; Deut. xxxiv. 6. ; 2 Kings xiii. 21. ; 2 Kings xxiii. 16, 17, 18.; Isaiah xi. 10. ; Matthewxi. 20, 21, 22. ; Acts 
v.
12- 15. ; Acts xix. ii, 12. See Popery.
The Roman Catholics in Great Britain do not ac-knowledge any worship to be due to relics, but merely
a
high veneration and respe i, by which means they think they honour God, who, they say, has often wrought very extraordinary miracles by them. But, however proper this veneration and respect may be, its abuse has been
so
great and so general, as fully to war-rant the rejection of them altogether.
Relics are forbidden to be used or brought into England by several statutes ; and justices os peace are empowered to search houles for popish books and relics,
which, when found, are to be defaced and burnt,
&c,
3 Jac.
I.
cap. 26.
RELICT, in law, the fame with Widow.
RELIEF
(Relevamen ;
but, in Domefday,
Relevαtio, Relevium},
signifies a certain sum of money, which the tenant, holding by knight’s service, grand serjeanty, or other tenure, (for which homage or legal service is due), and being at full age at the death of his an-cestor, paid unto his lord at his entrance. See Pri-mer.
Though reliefs had their original while feuds were only life-estates, yet they continued after feuds became hereditary; and were therefore looked upon, very justly, as one of the greatest grievances of tenure : especially when, at the first, they were merely arbitrary and at the will of the lord ; so that, if he pleased to demand an exorbitant relief, it was in effect to disinherit the heir. The Engliih ill brooked this consequence of their new-adopted policy; and there-fore william the Conqueror by his laws
afcertained
the relief, by directing (in imitation of the Danish he-riots), that a certain quantity of arms, and habiliments of war, shonld be paid by the earls, barons, and vavasours refpectively ; and, if the latter had no arms, they should pay 100s. william Rufus broke through this composition, and again demanded arbitrary un-certain reliefs, as due by the feodal laws ; thereby in effect obliging every heir to new-purchase or
redeem 
his land: but his brother Henry I. by the charter be-fore-mentioned, restored his father’s law ; and ordained, that the relief to be paid should be according to the law so established, and not an arbitrary redemption.—■ But afterwards, when, by an ordinance in 27 Hen. II. called the
afise os arms,
it was provided, that every man’s armour should descend to his heir, for defence of the realm, and it thereby became impracticable to pay these acknowledgments in arms according to the laws of the Conqueror,1 the composition was univer-fally accepted of 100 s. for every knight’s fee, as ws find it ever after established. But it must be remem-bered, that this relief was only then payable, if the heir at the death of his ancestor had attained his full age of 21 years.
To
RELIEVE
the Guard,
is to put fresh men upon guard, which is generally every 24 hours.
To Relieve the Trenches,
is to relieve the guard of the trenches, by appointing those for that duty who have been there before.
To Relieve the Sentries,
is to put fresh men upon that duty from the guard, which is generally done every two hours, by a corporal who attends the relief, to see that the proper orders are delivered to the soldier who relieves.
RELIEVO, or Relief, in sculpture, &c. is the projecture or standing out of a figure which arises prominent from the ground or plane on which it is formed; whether that figure be cut with the chissel, moulded, or cast.
There are three kinds or degrees of relievo, viz. alto, basso, and demi-relievo. The alto-relievo, called also 
haut-relief,
or
high-relievo,
is when the figure is formed after nature, and projects as much as the life. Basso-relievo, bass-relief, or low-relievo, is when the work is raised a little from the ground, as in medals, and thc frontispieces of buildings ; and particularly in. the histo-
ries, festorw.
foliages, and other ornaments os friezes, Demi·relievo"is when one half of the figure rises from the plane, when,
in
a basso-rehevo, there are parts that stand clear out, detached srom the rest, the work is called a
demid>∏Jfo,
In architecture, the relievo or projecture of the orna-ments ought always to be proportioned to the magnitude of the building it adorns, and to the distance at which 'it is to be viewed.
Relievo, or
Relief,
in painting, is the degree of bold-nefs with which the figures seem, at a due distance, to stand out from the ground of the painting.
The relievo depends much upon thc depth of the shadow, and the strength of the light ; or on the height of the different colours, bordering on one another ; and particularly on the difference of the colour of the figure from that of the ground : thus, when the light is fo disposed as to make the nearest paιts of the figure advance, and is well diffused on the maises, yet infensibly diminishing, and terminating in a large spacious shadow, brought off insensibly, tbe relievo is said to be bold, and the clair obscure well under-stood.
RELIGION (Rf.ltgio), is a Latin word derived, according to Cicero*,from
rc/egere,
“ to re-confiders’but according to Servius and most modern grammarians, from
relιgare,ti
to bind fast. , lhe reason assigned by the Roman orator for deducing
religio
from
relego,
is in these words, " qui autem omnia, quæ ad cultum deo-rum pertinerent, diligenter retracterent, et tanquam re-legerent, sunt dicti
relifiοfi
ex relegendo.” The reason given by Servius sor his derivation of the word is, “ quod mentem religio religet.” If the Ciceronian etymology be the true one, the word
religion
will denote the diligent study of whatever pertains to the worship of the’gods ; but according to the other derivation, which we are inclined to prefer, it denotes that obligation which we feel on our minds from the relation in which we stand to feme superior power. In either cafe, the import of the word
religion
is different from that of
theology,
as the former fignifies a number of practical duties, and the latter a system of speculative truths. 
Theology
is therefore the foundation of
religion,
or the science from which it springs ; for no man can study -what pertains to the worship of superior powers Jill he believe that .shch powers exist, or feel any obligation on his mind from a relation of which he knows nothing.
This idea ©f religion, as distinguished from theo-logy, comprehends the duties not only of thofe more re-fined and complicated systems of theism or polytheism which have prevailed among civilized and enlightened nations, such as the polytheism of the Greeks and Romans, and the theism of the Jews, the Mahometans, and the Christians ; it comprehends every sentiment of obligation which human beings have ever conceived themselves under to superior powers, as well as all the forms of worship which have ever been practised through the world, however fantastic, immoral, or absurd.
when we turn our eyes to this feature of the human character, we find it peculiarly interesting. Mankind are distinguished from the brutal tribes, and elevated to an higher rank, by the rational and moral faculties with which they are endowed ; but they are stiil more widely distinguished from the inferior creation, and more highly exalted above them, by being made capable
of religi
ous notions and religious sentiments. The slightest knowledge of history is sufficient to inform us, that religion has ever had a powerful influence in moulding the sentiments and manners of men. It has sometimes dignified, and sometimes degraded, the human character. In one region or age it has been favourable to ci-vilization and refinement ; in another, it has occafionally cramped the genius, depraved the morals, and deform-ed the manners of men. The varieties ot religion are innumerable ; and the members of every distinct sect must view all who differ from them as more or less mistaken with respect to the most important concerns of man. Religion seems to be congenial to the heart of man ; for wherever human society subsists, there we are certain of finding religious opinions and sentiments.
It must, therefore, be an important fubject of specu-lation to the man and the philosopher to confider the origin of religion ; to inquire, How far religion in general has a tendency to promote or to injn-e the order and happiness of society ? and, above all, to examine, what particular religion is best calculated to produce an happy influence on human life ?
ΛVe shall endeavour to give a fatisfactory answer to each of thefe questions, referving to the article Theology the consideration of the dogmas of that particular religion which, from our present inquiries, shall appear to be true, and to have the happiest influence on human life and manners.
I. The foundation of all religion rests on the belief of the existence of one or more superior beings, who govern the world, and upon whom the happinefs or mi-sery of mankind ultimately depends. Οί this belief, as it may be faid to have been univerlal, there seem to be but three sources that can be conceived. Either the image of Deity mnst be stamped on the mind of every human being, the savage as well as the fage; or the founders of societies, and other eminent persons, tracing by the efforts of their own reason visible effects to invisible caufes, must have difcovered the existence of superior powers, and communicated the discovery to their associates and fol-lowers ; or, lastly, the univeτfal belief in such powers must have been derived by tradition from a primaeval re-velation, communicated to the progenitors ωf the hu-man race.
Οηε or other of these hypotheses must be true, becaufe a fourth cannot be framed. But we have elsewhere (Polytheism, no 2.) examined the reasoning which has been employed to establish the first, and shewn that it proceeds upon false notions of human nature, we should likewise pronounce it contrary to fact, could we believe, on the authority of some of its patrons, who are not ashamed to contradict one another, that the Kamtschatkans, and other tribes, in the lowest state of reasoning and morals, haVe no ideas whatever of Deity. we proceed, therefore, to consider the second hypothesis, which is much more plausible, and will bear
a 
stricter scrutiny.
That the existence and many os the attributes of the Deity are capable of rigid demonstration, is a truth which cannot be controverted either by the philosopher or the Christian ; for " the invifible things ot Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being under-stood by the things that are made, even His eternal 
power and Godhead,” (fee
Metaphysics,
Part III.
chap,
v!,
and
Theology,
n0 8, 9.) But surely it
would be rash to infer, either that every truth for which, when it is known, the ingenuity of man can frame
a
demonstration, is therefore
discover able
by human sagacity, or that all the truths which have been discovered by a
Newton
or a
Lot he
might therefore have been discovered by untaught barbarians. In mathematical foiençe, there are few demonstrations of ea-fier comprehension than that given by Euclid, of the theorem of which Pythagoras is the reputed author ; yet no man ever dreamed that a boy capable of being made to undeιstand that theorem, must therefore have sagacity equal to the fagc of Samos; or that such a boy, having never heard of the relation between the hypo-then use and other two sides of a right angled triangle, would be likely to
discover
that the square ot the former js precisely equal to the sum of the squares of the latter. Just fo it feems to be with the fundamental truths of theology. There can hardly be conceived a demonstration lefs intricate, or more conclusive, than that which the man of science employs to prove the existence of at least one God, possessed of boundless power and perfect wisdom. And could we suppose that the human race had remained without any knowledge os God in the world, till certain lucky individuals had by some means or other made themselves masters os the rules os logic, and the philosophy of causes, there can be no doubt but that these individuals might have discovered the existence of superior powers, and communicated their discovery to their aisociates and followers. But this iuppofitιon cannot be admitted, as it is contradicted by the evidence of all history. No nation or tribe has ever been found, in which there is not reafon to believe that fome notions were entertained of fuperior and invisible powers, upon which depends the happinefs or mifery of mankind : and from the most authentic records cf antiquity, it is apparent that very pure principles of theism prevailed in some nations long before the rules of logic, and the philosophy of causes, were thought of by any people under heaven.
The supposition before us is inadmissible upon other accounts. Some modern philosophers have fancied that the original progenitors of mankind were left entirely to themselves from the moment ot their creation; that they wandered about for ages without the use of ipeech and in the lowest state of savagisin ; but that they gradually civilized themselves, and at last stumbled upon the contrivance of making articulate founds significant of ideas, which was followed by the invention of arts and sciences, with all the blessings of religion and legislation in their train. But this is a wild reverie, inconsistent with the phenomena of human nature.
It is a well known fact, that a man blind from his birth, and fuddeπly made to see, would not by means , cf his newly acquired sense discern either the magnitude or figure or distance of objects, but would conceive every thing which communicated to him visible sensations as inseparably united to his eye or his mind (See Me-taphysics, n° 49—53)· How long his ienle of sight would remain in such an imperfect state, we cannot positively fay ; but from attending to the visible sensations of infants, we are confident that weeks, if not months, elapse before they can distinguish one thing from another. we have indeed been told, that Cheselden’a fa
mous
patient, though he was at
sirst
in the state which we have described, learned to distinguish objects
by 
sight in the course of a few hours, or at the most of a few days ; but admitting this to a certain extent to be true, it may easily be accounted for. The disease call-ed a
cataract
foldυm occasions total blindness ; but let us iuppoie the eyes of this man to have been so completely dimmed as to communicate no sensation whatever upon being expofed to the rays of light; still we must remember that he had long possessed the power of loco-motion and all his other senses in perfection. He was therefore well acquainted with the real,
i. e,
the tangible magnitude, figure, and distance of many υb-jects ; and having been often told that the tilings which he touched would, upon his acquisition os sight, com-municate new seniations to his mind, differing srom each other according to the distance, figure, and magnitude of the objects by which they were occasioned, he would foon learn to infer the one srom the other, and to distinguish near objects by means os his sight.
Ί he progenitors os the human race, however, is lest to themielves from the moment os their creation, had not the same advantages. when they sirst opened their eyes, they had neither moved, nor handled, nor heard, nor sinelled, nor tailed, nor had a single idea or notion treasured up in their memories ; but were in alI these respects in the state oi new-born infants. Now we should be glad to be informed by those sages who have conducted mankind through many generations in which they were
mutum et turpe pecus
to that happy pe-ricd when they invented language, how the sirst men were taught to distinguish objects by their sense of sight, and how they contrived to
live
till this most ne-ceisary faculty was acquired ? It does not appear that men are like brutes, provided with a number os inilinct⅛ which guide them blindfold and without experience to whatever is necessary sor their own preservation (see Instinct) : Ο11 the contrary, all voyagers tell us that,, in strange and uninhabited countries, they dare not venture to taste unknown fruits unless they perceive that these fruits are eaten by the fowls of the air. But with-out the aid of instinct, or of some other guide equally to be depended upon, it is not in our power to conceive how men dropt from the hands of their Creator, and left from that instant wholly to themselvcs, could move a single step without the most imminent danger, or even stretch out their hands to lay hold of that food which we may suppose to have been placed within their reach. They could not, for mauy days, distinguish a precipice from a plane, a rock from a pit, or a ■river from the meadows through which it rolled. And in such circumstances, how could they pofsibly exist, till their sense of sight had acquired ftιch perfection as to be a sussicient guide to all their neceslary motions
ί 
Can any consistent theist suppose that the God whose goodneis is lo conspicuousiy displayed in all his works, would leave his noblest creature on earth, a creature sor whole comfort alone many other creatures seem to have been formed, in a situation io forlorn as this, where his immediate destruction appears to be inevitable ? No ! This supposition cannot be formed, because mankind stiil exist.
WÜ1 it then be said, that when God formed the sirst men, he not only gave them organs of sensation, and fouls capable of arriving by discipline at the exercise of reaιυn, but that he also impreised upon their minds
adequate ideas and notions of every
object
in which
they were interested, brought all their organs, external and internal, at once to their utmost possible state of perfection ; taught them instantaneously the laws of reason-ing ; and, in one word, stored their minds with every branch of useful knowledge ? This is indeed our own opinion ; and it is perfectly agreeable to what we are taught by the Hebrew lawgiver. when God had formed Adam and Eve, Moses does not say that he lest them to acquire by flow degrees the ufe of their senfes and reasoning powers, and to distinguish as they could fruits that were salutary from those that were poisonous. No : he placed them in a garden where every tree but one bore fruit fit for food ; he warned them particulaιly against the fruit of that tree; he brought before them the various animals which roamed through the garden ; he arranged these animals into their proper genera and speciee ; and by teaching Adam to give them names, he communicated to the
first
pair the elements of language. This condescension appears in every respect worthy of perfect benevolence ; and indeed without it the helpless man and woman could not have lived one whole week. But it cannot be sup-posed, that amidst so much useful instruction the gra-cious Creator would neglect to communicate to his rational creatures the knowledge of himself ; to inform them of their own origin, and the relation in which they stood to him ; and to state in the plainest terms the duties incumbent on them in return for fo much goodnefs.
In what manner all this knowledge was communica-±ed, cannot be certainly known. It may have been in either of the following ways conceivable by us, or in others of which we can form no conception. God may have miraculously stored the minds of the sirst pair with adequate ideas and notions of sensible and intellectual objects ; and then by an internal operation of his own Spirit have enabled them to exert at once their rational faculties so as to difcover his existence and attributes, together with the relation in which as creatures they stood to him their Almighty Creator. Ον, after rendering them capable of distinguishing objects by means of their senses, of comparing their ideas, and understand-ing a language, he may have exhibited himtelt under some sensible emblem, and conducted them by degrees from one branch of knowledge to another, as a tehool-master conducts his pupilβ, till they were sufficiently acquainted with every thing relating to their own happinefs and duty as rational, moral, and religious, creatures. In determining the question before us, it is of no importance whether infinite wisdom adopted either of these methods, or fome other different from them, both which we cannot conceive. The ordinary process in which men acquire knowledge is, by the laws of their nature, extremely tedious. They cannot reafon before their minds be stored with ideas and notions ; and they cannot acquire these but through the medium of their senses long exercised on external objects.
The progenitors of the human race, left to inform themselves by this process, must have inevitably perished before they had acquired one distinct notion ; and it is the fame thing with respect to the origin of religion, whether God preferved them from destruction
by
aa 
internal
or
external
revelation. If he stored their minds 
at once with the rudiments of all useful knowledge, and
rendered
them
capable of exerting
thcir rational facul
ties, so as, by tracing effects to their causes, to discover his being and attributes, he
revealed
himself to them as certainly as he did afterwards to Moses, when to
him he 
condescended to fpeak face to face.
If this reasoning be admitted as fair and conclusive, and wc apprehend that thc principles on which it proceeds cannot be considered as ill-founded, we have advanced so far as to prove that mankind must have been originally enlightened by a revelation. But it is scarce necessary to observe, that this revelation mnst have been handed down through succeeding generations. It could not fail to reach the era of the deluge. It is not abfurd to suppose, that he who spake from heaven to Adam, spake also to Noah. And both the revelation which had been handed down to the postdeluvian patriarch by tradition, and that which was communicated immediately to himself, would be by him made known to his descendants. Thus it appears almost impossible that some part of the religious sentiments of mankind should not have been derived from revelation ; and that not of the religious sentiments of one particular family or tribe, but of almost all the nations of the earth.
This conclusion, which we have deduced by fair rea-soning from the benevolence of God and the nature of man, is confirmed by the authority of the Jewish and Christian Scriptures, which are entitled to more implicit credit than all the other records of ancient his-tory.
when we review the internal and external evidence of the authenticity of thefe sacred books, we cannot for a moment hefitate to receive them as the genuine
word os God.
If we examine their internal character, they everywhere appear to be indeed the voice of Heaven. The creation of the world—-the manner in which this globe was sirst peopled—the deluge which swept away its inhabitants—the succeeding views of the state of mankind in the next ages after the deluge—the calling of Abraham—the legislation of Moses—the whole fe-ries of events which befel the Jewish nation—the prophecies—the appearance of Jesus Christ, and the promulgation of his gospel, as explained to us in the Scrip-tureβ—form one series, which is, in the highest degree, illustrative of the power, wisdom, and goodnefs of the Supreme Being.
while it must be allowed that the human mind is ever prone to debate the sublime principles of true religion by enthusiasm and snperstition, reason and can-dour will not for a moment hesitate to acknowledge, that the whole system of revelation repretents the Supreme Being in the most fublime and amiable light : that, in it, religion appears effentially connected with morality : that the legiilative code of Motes was such as no legis-lator ever formed and established among a people e-qually rude and uncultivated : that the manners and morals of the Jews, vicious and savage as they may in some instances appear, yet merit a much higher character than those either of their neighbours, or of almost any other nation, whofe circumstances and character were in other respects similar to theirs : that there is an infinite difference between the Scripture prophecies and the oracles and predictions which prevailed among hea-then nations : and that the miracles recorded in thofe writings which we esteem sacred were attended with circumstances which entitle them to be ranked in a very
different class from those which enthufiafm and impos-ture have fabricated among other nations. See Mira-cle and Prophecy.
But as the evidence of the divine origin of the prirnse-val religion rests particularly on the authority of the first five books of the old Testament, it may be thought incumbent on us to support our reasoning on this subject, by proving, that the author of those books was indeed inspired by God. This we shall endeavour to do by one decifive argument ; for the nature of the ar-ticle, and the limits prescribed us, admit not of our en-tering into a minute detail of all that has been written on the divine legation of Moses.
If the miracles recorded in the book of Exodus, and the other writings of the Hebrew lawgiver, were really performed ; if the sirst-born of the Egyptians were all cut off in one night, as is there related ; and if the children of Israel passed through the Red fea, the waters being divided, and forming a wall on their right hand and on their left—it must neceffarily be granted, that Moses was sent by God ; because nothing less than a divine power was sufficient to perform such wonderful works. But he who supposes that those works were never performed, must affirm that the books recording them were
forged, 
either at the era in which the miracles are said to have been wrought, or at some subsequent era : There is no other alternative.
That they could not be
forged
at the era in which they affirm the miracles to have been wrought, a very few reflections will make incontrovertibly evident. These books inform the people forwhose use they were written, that their author, after having inflicted various plagues upon Pharaoh and his subjects, brought them, to the number of 600,coo, out of Egypt with a high hand ; that they were led by a pillar of cloud through the day, and by a pillar of fire through the night, to the brink of the Red fea, where they were almost overtaken by the Egyptians, who had pursued them with chariots and horses ; that, to make a way for their escape, Mofes stretchcd out'his rod over the sea, which was immediately divided, and permitted them to pass through on dry ground, between two walls of water ; and that the E-gyptians, purfuing and going in after them to the midst of the sea, were all drowned by the return of the waterε to their usual state, as soon as the Hebrews arrived at the further shore. Is it possible now that Moses or any other man could have persuaded 600,000 persons, however barbarous and illiterate we suppose them, that they had been witneffes of all these wonderful works, if no such works had been performed ? Could any art or elo-quence persuade all the inhabitants of Edinburgh- and Leith, that, they had ycsterday walked on dry ground through the Frith to Kinghorn, the waters being di-vided and forming a wall on their right hand and on their left ? If this question must be answered in the negative, it is absolutely impossible that the books of Moses, sup-posing them to have been forged, could have been re-ceived by the people who were alive when those won-ders are said to have becn wrought.
Let us now inquire, whether, if they be forgeries, they could have been received as authentic at any sub-sequent period ; and we shall soon find this supposition as impossible as the former. The books claiming Moses for their author fpeak of themfelves as delivered by him, 
and from his days
kept
in the ark.
of
the covenant *j an
ark which,
upon
this suppofition, had no
existence
prior to the forgery. They speak of themselves likewise, not only as. a history of miracles wrought by their author, but as the statutes or municipal law of the nation, of which a copy was to be always in the possession of the priests, and another in that of the supreme magistrate J. Now, in whatever age we suppose these books to have been forged, they could not poffibly be received as au-thentic ; because no copy of them could then be found' either with the king, with the priests, or in the ark, though, as they contain the statute law of the land, it is not conceivable that, if they had existed, they could have been kept secret. Could any man, at this day, forge a book of statutes for England or Scotland, and make it pass upon these nations for the only book of statutes which they had ever known ? was there ever since the world began a book of sham statutes, and these, too, multifarious and burdensome, imposed upon any people as the only statutes by which they and their farthers had been governed for ages ? Such a forgery is evidently impossible.
But the books of Moses have internal proofs of au-thenticity, which no other books of ancient statutes e-ver had. They not only contain the laws, but also give an historical aecount of their enactment, and the reasons upon which they were founded. Thus they tell us¢, that the rite of circumcision was instituted as a mark of the covenant between God and the founder of the Jewish nation, and that the practice of it was enforced by the declaration of the Almighty, that every uncircumcifed man-child should be cut off from his people. They in-form us that the annual solemnity of the paffover waβ instituted in commemoration of their deliverance when God flew, in one night, all the first-born of the Egyp-tians ; that the first-born of Israel, both of men and beast, were on the fame occasion dedicated sor ever to God, who took the Levites instead of the first-born of the men s; that this tribe was consecrated as priests, by whose hands alone the sacrifices of the people were to be offered ; that it was death for any person of a different tribe to approach the altar, or even to touch the ark of the covenant ; and that Aaron’s budding rod was kept in the ark in memory of the wonderful destruction of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, for their rebellion a-gainst the priesthood.
Is it possible now, if all thefe things hadnot been practised among the Hebrews from the era of Moses, with a retrospect to the signal mercies which they are said to commemorate, that any man or body of men could have persuaded a whole nation, by means of forged books, that they had always religiously observed such institutions ? Could it have been possible, at any period posterior to the Exodus, to persuade the Israelites that they and their fathers had all been circumcised on the eighth day from their birth, if they had been confcious themfelves that they had never been circumcised at all? or that the paffover was kept in memory of their deliverance from Egyptian bondage, if no such festival was known among them ?
But let us suppose that circumcision had been practised, and all their ether ritcs and ceremonies observed from time immemorial, without their knowing any reason of fuch institutions ; still it must be confessed that the forger of these books, if they
were
forged, constructed his
narrative in
such
a manner as that
no man
of common sense could receive it as authentic. He says it was death to touch the ark ! As such an assertion was never heard os before, and as the ritual he was endeavouring to make them esteem sacred was opprcssively multifarious ; surely some daring spirit would have ventured to put his veracity to the test by moving the ark and even offering sacrifices ; and such a test would at once have expofed the imposture. The budding rod, too, and the hat of manna, which, though long preferved, were never before heard of', must have produced inquiries that could not fail to end in detection. Thefe books speak likewise of weekly sabbaths, daily sacrifices, a yearly expiation, and monthly festivals, all to be kept in remembrance of great things particularly fpecified as done for the nation at an early period of its existence. If this was not the case, could the forger of the books have persuaded the people that it really was fo ? The enlightened reasoners of this nation would be offended were we to compare them with the ancient Israelites ; but surely they will not say that we are partial to that people, if we bring them to a level with the most savage tribes of the Russian empire, who profess Christianity ? Now, were a book to be forged containing an account of many strange things done a thousand years ago in Siberia by an
Apollonius,
or any other philosopher or hero, numbers of the barbarians inhabiting that country would, we doubt not, give implicit credit to the
legend
: But were the author, in confirmation of his narrative, to affirm, that all the Siberians had from that day to this kept sacred the sirst day of the week in memory of his hero ; that they had all been baptized or circumcised in his name ; that in their public judicatories they had fworn by his name, and upon that very book which they had never feen before ; and that the very same book was their law and their gospel, by which for a thousand years back the actions of the whole people had been regulated—surely the groffest favage among them would reject with contempt and indignation a forgery so palpable.
If this reasoning be conclusive, the books of Moses must indubitably be authentic, and he himself must have been inspired by the spirit of God. But this point being established, the question respecting the origin of the primaeval religion is completely anfwered. The writer of the book of Genelis informs us, that Adam and Noah received many revelations from the Author of their being, and that their religion was founded on the principles of the purest theism. How it degenerated among the greater part of their defcendants into the grossest idolatry, has been shown at large in another place. See Polytheism.
II. Having thus answered the first question propofed sor discussion in the present article, we now proceed to consider the second, and to inquire whether and how far religious sentiments have a tendency to injure or to pro-mote the welfare of fociety ? This is a subject of the utmost importance ; and if we prove successful in our inquiries, we shall be enabled to determine whether the governors of mankind ought carefully to support religious establishments, or whether the philosopher who calls himself a citizen of the world, and professes to feel the most eager desire to promote the interests of his species, acts consistently when he labours to exterminate religion from among men.
A celebrated French financier *, a man of abilities
and virtue, who has publiihed a book on the importance of religious opinions, labours to show that religious esta-blishrnents are indispensably necessary for the maintenance of civil order., and demonstrates how weak the influence of political institutions is on the morals of mankind ; but he refuses to review the history of past ages in order to discover how far religious opinions have actually been injurious or beneficial to the welfare of society ; choo-sing rather to content himself with the refult of a se« ries of metaphyfical disquifitions.
we admire the spirit which induced a man who had spent a confiderable part of his life -amid the hurry of public bufinefs, to become the strenuous advocate of re-ligion ; but we cannot help thinking that, notwithstanding the eloquence, the acuteness, and the knowledge of mankind which he has displayed, his refusing to admit the evidence of facts concerning the influence of reli-gion on society may possibly be regarded by its enemies as a tacit acknowledgment that the evidence of facts would be unfavourable to the cause which he wishes to defend. The fallacy of general reasonshgs, and the inutility of metaphyfics for the purposes of life, are so uni-versally acknowledged, that they have long been the theme of declamation. Though the abuses os religion, as well as the abuses of reason, the perversion oi any of the principles of the human mind, and the misap-plication of the gifts of providence, may have often produced effects hurtful to the virtue and the happiness of mankind ; yet, after tracing religion to a divine ori-gin, we cannot, for a moment, allow ourselves to think that the primary tendency of religion must be hostile to the interests of socicty, or that it is necessary to view it abstractly in order that we may not behold it in an odious light, often has the fceptic attacked religion with artful malice ; but perhaps none of his attacks has been so skilfully directed as that which has first ridiculed the absurdity of the most absurd superstitions, and afterwards laboured to prove that the most abfurd system of polytheism is more favourable to the interests of society than the purest and most sublime theism. In-ftances in which the abuse of religion had tended to deprave the human heart, and had led to the most shocking crimes, have been assiduously collected, and displayed in all the aggravating colours in which elo-quence could array them, till at length even the friends of true religion have been abashed ; and it has become 
a
fashionable opinion, that nothing but self-interest or bigotry can prompt men to represent religion as the friend of civil order. But let us try if, by a candid consideration of what effects have resulted to society from religious principles, in general, without compa-ring these with regard to truth or falsehood, we can
advance any thing to vindicate the character of religion.
Notions of Deity in general, of various orders of divinities, of their moral character, of their influence on human life, of a future state, and of the immortality of the human foul, constitute the leading articles of religion. Let us view thefe together with the rites to which they have given jise ; and we may perhaps be enabled to form fome well-grounded notions on this important point.
I. Having proved that the first religious principles entertained by men were derived from revelation, it is impoffible to suppose that they could produce effects in-
jurions to
society. If religion os any kind has ever Iessened the virtue or disturbed the peace os men, it must have been that religion which springs from a belief in a multitude of superior powers actuated by paf-fιons, and of whom fome were conceived as benevolent and others as malicious beings. That fuch sentiments should have produced vices unknown in societies where pure theism is professed, will be readily admitted. Even the few
atheifis
who live in Christian or Mahometan countries are restrained by the laws, by a desire to promote the honour of the sect, and by many other confiderations, from indulging in practices which the ex-ample of the false gods of antiquity sanctioned in their votaries. But in determining the present question, we must not compare the virtues of the pagan world with those of individual atheists in modern Europe, but with those of
nations
professing atheism ; and such nations are nowhere to be found. We can however easily conceive, that in a society unawed by any notions of God or a future state, no such laws would be enacted as those which restrain the sensual appetites ; of which the criminal indulgence was one of the greatest stigmas on the pagan worship of antiquity. In such societies, therefore, those vices would be practised constantly to which paganism gave only an occasional sanction ; and many others, in spite of the utmost vigilance of human Iaws, would be perpetrated in secret, which the most profligate pagans viewed with horror. Conscience, though acting with all her energy, would not be able to command any regard to the laws of morality : No virtue would be known ; focial order would be nowhere observed; the midnight assaffin would every where be found ; and in the general scramble mankind would be exterminated from the face of the earth.
The worst species of paganifm, even that which pre-vails among savages who worship evil spirits, affords greater security than this. It is indeed shocking to think that demons should be Worshipped, while deities, who are regarded as being all benevolence, are treated with contempt: And it has been asked, If the influence of such religious sentiments on the moral practice of the idolaters must not naturally be, to cause them to treat their friends and benefactors with ingratitude, and to humble themselves with mean submission before a powerful enemy ?
They do not appear to have produced such effects
on
the morality of the savages by whom they were entertained. The benevolent deities were neglected, only because their benevolence was necessary. A voluntary iavour merits a grateful return : a designed injury provokes resentment. But when you become, by accident, the instrument of any man’s good fortune, the world will scarce consider him as owing you any obligation : the stone which bruises your foot excites only a momentary emotion of resentment. Those gods who could not avoid doing good to men might not receive a pro-fusion of thanks for their services ; and yet a favohr conferred by an human benefactor commands the warm-
eft
gratitude. But those rude tribes appear to have had fo much wisdom âs to confer a lefs absolute malice on their malcvolent deities, than the benevolence which -they attributed to their more amiable order of superior beings : though the latter could not poffibly do them any thing but good, and that constantly ; yet the former were not under an equally indifpensable neceffity of persevering in depressing them under calamities. On their malevoIent deities they conferred a freedom of agency which they denied to the benevolent. No won-der, then, that they were more afliduous in paying their court to the one than to the other. They might with as much propriety have thought of being grateful to the boar or stag whose flesh fupported them, as to deities who were always benevolent, becaufe they could not possibly be otherwise. Though negligent of such. deitiete, this can scarce be thought to have had any ten» dency to render them ungrateful to benefactors like themfelves. And yet, it must not be dissembled, thafc the American Indians, among whom such religion» sentiments have been found to prevail, are said to be very little sensible to the emotions of gratitude. Ait Indian receives a present without thinking of making any grateful acknowledgments to the bestower. He pleases his fancy or gratifies his appetite with what you have givcn, without feeming to consider himseif as under the smallest obligation to you for the gift.
Tt may be doubted, however, whether this spirit of ingratitude originates from, or is only collateral with, that indifference which refuses adoration and worship to the benevolent divinities. If the former be actually the cafe, we must acknowledge that those religious notion's which we now consider, though preferable to general atheism, are in this respect unfriendly to virtue. But if the Indians may be thought to owe the ingratitude for which they are distinguished to the opinion which they entertain of the existence of a benevolent order of deities, whofe benevolence is neceffary and involuntary, their ideas of the nature of their malevolent demons do not appear to have produced equal effects on their moral sentiments. However submiffive to those dreaded beings, they are far from showing the fame tame and cowardly fubmission to their human enemies : towards them they seem rather to adopt the sentiments of their demons. Inveterate rancour and brutal fury, inhuman cruelty and inconceivable cunning, are displayed in the hostilities of tribes at war ; and we know not, after all, if even these sentiments do not owe somewhat of their force to the influence of religion.
Yet let us remember that thefe fame Indians have not been always represented in so unamiable a light ; or, at least, other qualities have been ascribed to them which seem to be inconsistent with those barbarous dispositions. They have been described as peculiarly susceptible of conjugal and parental love; and he who is so cannot be destitute of virtue.
2. But leaving the religion of savages, of which very little is known with certainty, let us proceed to examine what is the natural influence of that mixed system 
of
theology which represents to the imagination of men a number of fuperior and inferior divinities, actuated by the fame passions and feelings with themselves, and often making use of their superior power and knowledge for no other purpose but to enable them to violate the laws of moral order with impunity. This is the cele-brated polytheism of the Greeks and Romans, and most other nations of antiquity (see Polytheisλm). Could its influence be favourable to virtue ?
At a firil view every person will readily declare, that such a system must have been friendly to profligacy. If you commit the government of the universe, and the inspection
of
human society, to a sct
of
beings who are
often
disposed to regard vice with a no less favourable eye than virtue, and who, though there be an established order by which virtue is discriminated from vice, and right from wrong, yet scruple not to violate that order in their own conduct ; you cannot expect: them to require in you a degree of rectitude of which they themselves appear incapable. A Mercury will not dis-courage the thievish arts of the trader ; a Bacchus and a venus cannot frown upon debauchery ; Mars will behold with savage delight all the cruelties of war. The Thracians indeed, one of the most barbarous nations of antiquity, whose ferocity was little if at all inferior to that of the Indians who have been distinguished as ca-nibals, was the favourite nation of Mars ; among whom stood his palace, to whieh he repaired when about to mount his chariot, and arm himself for battle. Even Jupiter, who had been guilty of so many acts of tyrannical caprice, had been engaged in fuch a multitude of amorous intrigues, and seemed to owe his elevated station as monarch of the sky, not to fuperior goodnefs or wifdom, but merely to a superior degree of brutal force, could not be feared as the avenger of crimes,
or 
revered as the impartial rewarder of virtues.
That this system had a pernicious effect on morals, and that, as compared with.pure theism, it was injurious to society, cannot be denied ; but yet, when contrasted with atheism, it was not without its favourable effects. It was so connected with the order of fociety, that, without its support, that order could fcarce have been maintained. The young rake might perhaps justify himself by the example of Jupiter, or Apollo, or some other amorous divinity ; the frail virgin or matron might complain of Cupid, or boast of imitating venus ; and the thief might practise his craft under the patronage of Mercury : But if we take the whole fystem together, if we consider with what views those deities were publicly worshipped, what temples were raised, wlιat rites instituted, what sacrifices offered, and what 
feri<ε
consecrated ; we shall perhaps find it neeeffary to acknowledge that the general effects even of that mixed and incoherent syftem of polytheism whieh prevailed among the Greeks and Romans were favourable to fociety. To state a particular instance ; the
ancilia
of Mars and the fire of Vesta were thought to secure the perpetuity of the Roman empire. As long as the sacred
andle,
which had been dropped from heaven for that benevolent purpose, was safely preserved in those holy archives in which it had been deposited ; and as long as the sacred fire of Vesta was kept burning, without being once extinguished, or at least suffered to remain for an instant in that state ; fo long was Rome to subsist and flourish. And, however simple and abfurd the idea which connected the profperity of a nation with the preservation of a piece of wood in a certain place, or with the constant blazing of a flame upon an hearth ; yet no fact can be more certain, than that the patriotifm and enthusiastic valour of the Romans, which we so much extol and admire, were, in many instances, owing in no inconfiderable degree to the veneration which they entertained for the
ancilia
and the vestal sire.
A
numerous series of facts occur in the Roman, history, which show the happy effects of their religious: opinions and ceremonies on their sentiments concerning 
social order and the public welfare. How powerful
was the influence of
the
sacramentum
administered to
the soldiers when they enlisted in the service of their country ? The promises made, the idea of the powers invoked, and the rites performed on that occasion, pro-duced so deep and so awful an impreffion on their minds, that no danger, nor distress, nor difcontent, could prompt thcm to violate their engagements. The
re-
sponses of the oracles, too, thougsh the dictates of deceit and imposture, were often of singular service to those to whom they were uttered ; when they inspiretj the warrior, as he marched out to battle, with the con-fide∏ce of fuccess, they communicated to him new vi-gouri and more heroic valour, by which he was actu-ally enabled to gain, or at least to deserve, the fuccess which they prornifed. Again, when in times of pub. lic distrefs, the augur and the priest directed some games to be celebrated, certain facrisices to be offered, or some other solemnities to be performed, in order to appease tbe wrath of the offended deities ; it is plain that the means were not at all suited to accomplish the end pro-posed by them ; yet still they were highly bénéficiai* when the attention of the whole people was turned en-tirely to those solemnities by which the wrath of hea-ven was to be averted, they were roused from that de-fpondency under which the sense of the public distrei’s or danger might have otherwise caused them to sink : the public union was at the same time more closely cemented, and the hearts of the people knit together ; and when persuaded, that by propitiating the gods they had removed the cause of their distress, they acquired such calmness and strength of mind as enabled them to take more direct and proper measures for the fofety
of 
the state.
Could we view the ancient Greeks and Romans acting in public or in private life under the influence of that system of superstition which prevailed among them ; could we perceive how much it contributed to the maintenance of civil order; could we behold Numa and Lycurgus establishing their laws, which would otherwise have met with a very different reception under the fonction of divinities ; could we observe all the beneficial effects which arose to communities from the ce-lebration of religious ceremonies - we should no longer hefitate to acknowledge, that thofe principles in the hu-man heart by which we are fuceptible, of religious fentiments, are so eminently calculated to promote the hap-piness of mankind, that even when· perverted and abused, their influence is still favourable.
The ideas which prevailed among the nations of the heathen world concerning a future state of retribution were, it must be confeffed,. not very correct. Some of the poets, we believe, have represented them in no unfair light : both Homer and virgil have conducted their heroes through the realms of Pluto, and have taken occasion to unfold to us the secrets of those dreary abodes-The scenes are wild and fanciful ; the rewards of the just and virtuous are of no very resined or dignified nature : and of the punishments- inflicted on. the guilty, it. is often hard to say for what ends they could be inflicted ; whether to correct and improve, or for the gratification of revenge or whim : they are often so whim-sical and unfuitable, that they cannot with any degree of propriety be afcribed to any cause but blind chance or wanton caprice. A great dog with three tongues, 
a
peevilh
old boat-man
with
a. leaky
ferry-boat, de-
mnndhig his freight in a furly tone, and
an uxorious
monarch, are objects too familiar and ludicrous not
to 
degrade the dignity of those awful scenes which are represented as the mansions of the dead, and to prevent them from making a deep enough impreffion on the imagination. The actions and qualities, too, for which departed fpirits were admitted into Elysium, or doomed to the regions of fijssering, were not always of such 
a
nature as under a well-regulated government on earth would have been thought to merit reward, or to be worthy of punishment. It was not always virtue or wisdom which conducted to the Elysian fields, or gained admission into the fociety of the immortal gods.— Ganimede was for a very different reason promoted to be the cup-bearer os Jove ; and Hercules and Bacchus could not finely plead that any merits of that kind entitled them to feats in the council, and at the banquets 
of
the immortals. That doctrine, likewife, which represented mortals ns hurried by fate to the commission of crimes, which they could no more abstain from committing than the sword can avoid to obey the impulse 
of
a powerful and furious arm plunging it into the breast of an unresisting antagυnift, could not but produce effects unfavourable to virtue ; and it afforded a ready excuse for the most extravagant crimes.
Ύ
ct, after all, he who attentively considers the ideas of the Greeks and Romans concerning the moral government of the world and a future state of rewards and punishments, will probably acknowledge, that their general influence must have been favourable to virtue and moral order. Allow them to have been incorrect and dashed with absurdity ; still they represent punishments prepared for such qualities and actions as were injurious 
to
the welfare
of
society ; whilst, for those qualities which rendered men eminently ufefùl in the world, they hold forth a reward. Though incorrect, their ideas concerning a future state were exceedingly distinct ; they were not vague or general, but such as might be readi-Iy conceived by the imagination, in all their circumftances, as really existing. when a man is told that for such a deed he will be put to death, he may shud--<ier and be alarmed, and think of the deed as what he jrtust by no means commit ; but place before him the scene and the apparatus for his execution, call him to behold some other criminal mounting the scaffold, ad-βheffing his last words in a wild scream of defpair to the surrounding spectators, and then launching into eternity—his horror of the crime, and his dread of the punishment, will now be much more powerfully excited. In the same manner, to encourage the soldier marching cut
te
battle, or the mariner fetting sail under the prospect of a storm, promis¢ not, merely in general terms, 
a
liberal reward ; be sure to specify the nature of the reward which you mean to bestow; describe it so as that 
it
may take hold on the imagination, and may rise in opposition to the images of death and danger with which his courage is to be assailed.
If thefe phenomena of die human mind are fairly ftated, if it be true that general ideas produce no very powerful effects oa the fentimentβ and dispositions of the human heart, it must then be granted, that though the scenes of future reward and punishment, which the heathens considered as prepared for the righteous and the wicked, were of a somewhat motley complexion ; 
yet still, as they were
distinct
and even
minute draughts,
they must
have been
favbtιrable to virtue, and contribu-ted in no inconfiderable degree to the fupport of civil order.
Another thing
of
which we may take notice under this head, is the vast multiplicity of deities with which the Greek and Roman mythology peopled all the
regions
of nature. Flocks and fields, and woods and oaks, and flowers, and many much more minute objects, had all their guardian deities. Tliese were somewhat capricious at times, it is true, and expected to have attention paid them. But yet the faithful shepherd, and the industrious farmer, knew generally how to acquire their friendship ; and in the idea of deities enjoying the same simple pleasures, partaking in the same labours, protecting their possessions, and bringing forward the fruits of the year, there could not but be fomething of a very pleating nature, highly favourable to industry, which would animate the labours, and cheer the festivals, of the good people who entertained such a notion ; nay, would dissuse a new charm over all the fcene6 of the country, even in the gayest months of the year.
From all of these particular obfervations, we think ourselves warranted to conclude, that notwithstanding the mixed characters of the deities who were adored by the celebrated nations of antiquity ; though they are in many instances represented as conspicuous for vices and frolics ; however vain, abfurd, and morally criminal, some of the rites by which they were worshipped may have been, and however incorrect the notions of the heathens concerning the moral government of the universe and a future state of retribution ; yet still, after making
a 
just allowance for all these imperfections, the general influence of their religious system was rather favourable thaπ unfavourable to virtue and to the order and happiness of fociety.
It was not without good reason that the earliest legislators generally endeavoured to establish their laws and constitutions on the basis of religion ; government needs the support of opinion ; the governed must be im-pressed with a belief that the particular establishment to whieh they are required to submit, is tbe best calculated for their security and happiness, or is supported on some such solid foundation, that it must prove,im-possible for them to overturn it, or is connected with some awful sanction, which it would hc the most heinous impiety to oppose. Οί thefe feveral notions, the last will ever operate on most men with the most steady influence. AVe are frequently blind to our own interest ; even when eager for the attainment of happiness, we often refusc to take the wisest measures for that end. The great bulk of the people in every community are so little capable of reafoning and foresight, that the public minister who shall most steadily direct his views to the public good will often be the most unpopular. Those laws, and that system of government, which arc the most beneficial, will often excite the strongest popular discontents. Again, it is not always easy to persuade people that your power is superior to theirs, when it is not really fo. No one man will ever be able to persuade a thousand that he is stronger than they all together ; and therefore, in order to persuade one part of his fub-jects or army that it is absolutely necessary for them to submit to him, because any attempts to resist his power
would prove ineffectual, a monarch or general must take
care sirst to persuade another part that it is sor their in-
tertst to submit to him : or to iιnprefs the whole with a belief that, weak and pitiful as he himielf may appear, when viewed singly in opposition to them all, yet by tbe assistance of some awful invisible beings, his friends and protectors, he is so powerful, that any attempts to resist his authority must prove presumptuous folly. Here, then, the aid of religion becomes requisite. Religious fentiments are the most happily calculated to serve this purpofe. Scarce ever was there a society formed, a inode of government establiihed, or a code oi laws framed and enacted, without having the religious fentiments of mankind, their notions of the existence of fuperior invιhble beings, and their hopes and fears from those beings, as its fundamental principle. Now, we believe, it is almost universally agreed, that even the rndest form of society is more favourable to the happiness of mankind, and the dignity ot the human character, than a solitary and lavage state.. And if this, with what we have afferted concerning religion as the basis of civil government, be both granted, it will follow, that even the most imperfect religious notions, the most fooliih and absurd rites, and the wildest ideas that have been entertained concerning the moral government of the universe by superior beings, and a future state of retribution, have been more advantageous than atheιfm to the happinefs and virtue of human life, we have already granted, nor can it be denied, indeed, that many of the religious opinions which prevailed among the ancient heathens, did contribute, in some degree, to the depravation ©f their morals : and' all that we argue tor is, that on a comparative view oi the evil and the good which resulted from them, the latter must appear more than adequate to counterbalance the effects of the former.
But if such be the natural tendency of those principles by which the human heart is made susceptible of re=∙ ligious fentiments, that even enthusiasm and absurd superstition are productive of beneficial teffects more than iufficient to counterbalance whatever is malignant in their influence on society finely a pure rational religion, the doctrines of which are founded in undeniable truth, and all the obfervances which it enjoins, calculated to promote by their direct and immediate effects some useful purposes, must be in a very high degree conducive to the dignity and the happiness of human nature. Indeed one collateral proos ol the truth of any religion, which must have very considerable weight with all who are not of opinion that the system of the universe has been produced and hitherto maintained in order and existence by blind chance, will be its having a stronger and more direct tendency than others to promote the interests of moral virtue and the happiness of mankind in the present life. Even the testimony of thoufands, even miracles, prophecies, and the lanction of remote antiquity, will scarce have sussicient weight to perfiιade us, that a religion is of divine origin,
it
its general tendency appear to be rather unfavourable than advantageous to moral virtue.
III. We ssiall therefore, in the next place, endeavour to determine, from a comparative view of the effects produced on the character and circumstances of fociety by the most eminent of these various systems of religion which have been in different ages or in different countries establissied in the world, how far any cne of them has in this respect the advantage over the 
yest
; and,
if the
utility
of a system of religion were to
be received as a test of its truth, what particular fystem might, with the best reason, be received as true, while the rest were rejected.
ist,. The principle upon which we here fet out
is,
that all, or almoft all, fystems of religion with which we are acquainted, whether true or falfe, contribute more or less to the welfare
of
fociety. But as, one field is more fruitful, and one garden less overgrown with weeds than another; so, in the fame manner, one system of religious opinions and ceremonies may be more happily calculated than others to promote the truest interests of mankind. In oppofition to th∩fe philosophers who are so vehement in their declamations against the inequality of ranks, we have ever been of opinion, that refinement and civilization contribute to the hap-piness of human life. The character of the solitary savage is, we are told, more dignified and respectabte than that of the philosopher and the hero, in proportion as he is more independent. He is indeed more independent ; but his independence is that of a stone, which receives no nourishment from the earth or air, and communicates none to animals or vegetables around it. In point of happiness, and in point of respectability, we cannot hefitate a moment, let philofophers fay what they will, to prefer a virtu-ousi enlightened, and polished Briton to any of the rudest savages, the least acquainted with tbe restraints and the sympathies of social life, that wander through the wild forests of the western world. But if we prefer civilization to barbarism, we must admit, that in this view Christianity has the advantage over every other religious system which has in any age or country prevailed among men ; for nowhere has civilization and useful scicnce been carried to such a height as among Christians.
It is not, indeed, in any confiderable degree that the absurd superstitions of thole rude tribes, who can lcarce be laid to be formed into any regular society, can contribute to their happiness. Among them the faculty ol reason is but in a very low state; and the moral principle usually follows the improvement or the depression ol the reasoning faculty. Their appetites and merely animal passions are almost their only principles ot action : their first religious notions, if we suppose them, not to be derived from revelation or tradition, are produced by the operation of gratitude, or grief, or hope,, or fear, upon their imaginations. And to these, however wild aud fanciful, it is not improbable that they may owe fome of their earliest moral notions. The idea of superior powers naturally leads to the thought that thofe powers have some influence on human life, from this they will most probably proceed to fancy one fet of actions agreeable, another offensive, to those beings to whom they believe themselves subject. And this,, perhaps, is the sirst distinction that favages can be sup-pofed to form between actions, as right or wrong, to be performed or to be avoided. But if this be the ease, we must acknowledge that the religious notions of the savage, however absurd, contribute to elevate his character, and to improve his happiness, when, they call forth the moral principle implanted in his breast.
But is the social state be preferable to a state of wild, and solitary independence, even the rude fuperstitions of unenlightened tribes of favages are in another respect beneficial
to
thole among whom they prevail. They
usually form, as has been already obferved under this article, the basis of civil order. Religious opinions may lead the great body of the community to reverence some particular fet of institutions, some individual, or some family, which are represented to them as peculiarly connected with the gods whom they adore. Under this sanction some form ©f government is esta-hlished ; they are taught to perform social duties, and rendered capable of social enjoyments. Not only Numa and Lycurgus, but almosi every legislator who has fought to civilize a rude people, and reduce them under the restraints of legal government, have endeavoured to impress their people with an idea that they acted with the approbation, and under the immediate direction, of superior powers, we cannot but allow that the rude superstitions of early ages are productive of these advantages to society ; but we have already acknowledged, and it cannot be denied, that they are al-so attended with many unhappy effects, when we view the absurdities intermixed with thc systems of religion which prevailed among most of the nations of antiquity, we cannot help lamenting that so noble a principle of human nature as our religious sentiments ihould be liable to such gross perverfιon ; and when we view the effects which they produce on the morals of mankind, and the forms of society, though we allow them to have been upon the whole rather beneficial than hurtful, yet we cannot but observe, that their unfavourable effects are by far more numerous than if they had been better directed, what unhappy effects, for instance,· have been produced by false notions concerning the condition of human souls in a future Rate, various nations have imagined that the scenes and objects of the world of spirits are only a shadow; representation of the things of the prefent world. Not only the fouls of men, according to them, inhabit those regions ; all the inferior animals and vegetables, and even inanimate bodies that are killed or destroyed here, are suppofed to pass into that vifionary world ; and, existing there in unsubftantial forms, to execute the same functions, or feιve the same purposes, as on earth. Such are the ideas of futurity that were entertained by the inhabitants of Guinea. And by thefe ideas they were induced, when a king or great man died among them, to provide for his comfortable accommodation in the world • of spirits, by burying with him meat and drink sor his fubsistence, staves to attend and serve him, and wives with whom he might still enjoy the pltasures of love. His faithful subjects vied with each other in offering,
one a servant, another a wife, a third a son or daughter, to be sent to the other world in company with the monarch, that they might there be employed in his 'service. In New Spain, in the island cf Java, in the kingdom of Benen, and among the inhabitants of
Is-
dostan, similar practices on the same occasion, owing no doubt to similar notions of futurity, have been prevalent. But fuch practices as these cannot be viewed with greater contempt on account of the opinions ■which have given rise to them, than horror on account of their unhappy effects on the condition of thole among whom they prevail. A lively impreffion of the cnjoyments to be obtained in a future ftate, together with fome very salfe or incorrect notions concerning the qualities or actions which were to entitle the departing soul
to admission into the scene of those enjoy
ments, is said to have produced equally ùnhappÿ effects among the Japanese. They not only bribed their priests to solicit for them ; but looking upon the enjoyments of the present life with disgust or contempt, they used to dash themselves from precipices, or cut their throats, in order to get to paradsse as soon as poffible. Various other superstitions subsisting among rude πa-tions might here be enumerated, as instances of the perversion of the religious principles of the human heart, which render them injurious to virtue and happinefs. The austerities which have been practised, chiefly among rude nations, as means of propitiating superior powers, are especially worthy of notice.— when the favourite idol of the Banians is carried
in 
folemn procession, fome devotees prostrate themfelve‰ on the ground, that the chariot in which the idol is carried may run over them ; others, with equal enthu-stasm, dash themselves on spikes fastened on purpose
to 
the car. Innumerable are tbe ways of torture which have been invented and practised on themielves by men ignorantly striving to recommend themselves to the favour of heaven. These we lament as instances in which religious sentiments have been so ill directed by the in-sluence of imagination, and unenlightened erring reason, as to produce unfavourable effects on the human character, and oppofe the happiness of social life.·— Though we have argued, that even the most absurd
fy~ 
stems of religion that have prevailed in the world, have been upon the whole rather beneficial than injurious t¢f the dignity and happiness of human nature ; yet if it stiall not appear, as we proceed farther in our comparative view of the effects of religion on society, that others have been attended with happier effects than theie superstitions which belong to the rude ages of society, we may scarce venture to brand the infidel with the ap-peliation of
fool,
for refusing to give his affent to religious doctrines, or to act under their influence.
2d, The polythessm of the Greeks and Romans,, and cither heathen nations in a similar state os civilization, we have already considered as being, upon the whole, rather favourable than unfavourable to virtue; but we must not partially conceal its defects. The vicious characters of the deities which they worshipped, the incorrect notions which they entertained concerning the moral government cf the universse and a future
re-
tribution, the absurdity of their rites and ceremonies,, and the criminal practices which were intermixed with them, must have altogether had a tendency to pervert both the reasoning and the moral principles of the human mind. The debaucheries of the monarch of the gods, and the fdelity with which his example in that respect was followed by the whole crowd of the inferior deities, did, we know, dispose the devout heathen, when he felt the same passions which had afferted thejr power over the gods, to gratify them without scruple. It is a truth, however, and we will not attempt to deny or conceal it, that tire genius of the polytheism of the Greeks and Romans was friendly to the arts ; to such of them especially as are raifed to excellence by the vi-goιous exertion of a fine imagination; music, poetry, seulpture, architecture, and pa ntmg, all of these arts appear to have been confiderably indebted for that perfection to whic∩ they attained, elpecially among the. Greeks, to the fplendid and fanciful system of mytholo-gy. which
was received
among,
that ingenious people. —
Rut we cannot give an equally favourable account of its influence on the sei¢nces. There was little
in
that system that could contribute to call forth reason. AVe may grant indeed, that if reason can be so shocked with absurdity as to be rouled to a more vigorous exertion of her powers, and a more determined affertion of her rights in conlequence of furveying it ; in that case this system of mythology might be favourable to the exer-¢ise and improvement of reason ; not otherwise.
The connection of paganism with morality was too imperfect for it to produce any very important effects on the morals of its votaries. Sacrifices and prayers, and temples and festivals, not purity of heart and integrity of life, were the means prescribed for propitia-ting tlie favour of the deities adored by the Pagans. There were other means, too, befides true heroism and patriotism, of gaining admisljon into the Elyfian fields, or obtaining a feat in tbe council of the gods. Xenophon, in one of the most beautiful parts of his Memoirs of Socrates, represeuts Hercules wooed by virtue and Pleasure in two fair female forms, and deliberating with much anxiety which of the two he should prefer. But this is the fiction of a philosopher délirons to improve the fables of antiquity in such a way as to render them truly useful. Hercules does not appear, from tho tales which are told us of his adventures, to have been at any such pains in choofing his way of life. He was received into the palace of Jove, without having occasion to plead that he had through life been the faithful follower of that σoddefs to whom the philosopher makes him give the preference ; his being the son of Jove, and his wild adventures, were sussicient without any other merits to gain him that honour. The same may be said concerning many of the other demi-gods and heroes who were advanced to heaven, or conveyed to the bless-.ful fields of Elysium. And whatever might be the good effects of the religion of Greece and Rome in
general
upon the civil and political establishments, and in some few instances on the manners of the people, yet still it must be acknowledged to have been but ill calculated to impress the heart with such principles as might in all circumftanceε direct to a firm, uniform, tenor of virtuous conduct.
But after what has been said on the character of this religion elsewhere (see
Polytheism),
and in the second part of this article, we cannot without repetition enlarge farther on it here, of the Jewish religion, however, we have as yet said little, having on purpose reserved to this place whatever we mean to in-troduce under the article, concerning its influence on society.
3d, when we take a general view of the circumstances in which the Jewilh religion was established, the effects which it produced on the character and fortune 
of
the nation, the rites and ceremonies which it enjoined, and the singular political institutions to which it gave a fonction, it may perhaps appear hard to deter-mine, whether it were upon the whole more or less beneficial to society than the pυlytheifm of the Egyp. tians, Greeks, and Romans. But if such be the judgement which preconceived prejudices, or an hasty and careless view, have induced fome to form of this celebrated system ; there are others who, with equal keenness, and founder reasoning, maintain, that
it
was happily 
calculated, not only to accomplish the great design of
preparing
the w⅞y for the promulgation ⅛f the Gyfpel,
but likewise to render tbe Jews a more refined and virtuous people, and a better regulated community, than a∏y neighbouring nation. ' In the sirst place, the attributes of the Deity were very clearly exhibited to the Jews in the establishment of their religion. The miracles by which he delivered them from scrvstude, and conducted them out of Egypt, were striking demonstrations of his power ; that condescension with which he forgave their repeated acta of perverseness and rebel-lion, was a most convincing proof of his benevolence ; and the impartiality with which the observance and thc violation of his laws were rewarded and punished, even in the present life, might well convince them of his justice. A part of the laws which he dictated to Moses are of eternal and univerfol obligation ; others of them were local and particular, suited to the character ot the Jews, and their circumstances in the land of Canaan. The Jewish code, taken altogether, is not to be considered as a complete system of religion, or laws calculated for all countries and all ages of fociety. When we consider the expediency of this system, we must take care not to overlook the design for which the Jews are foid to have been separated from other nations, the circumstances in which they had lived in Egypt, the cu∙ stoms and manners which they had contracted by their intercourfe with the natives of that country, the manner in which they were to acquire to themfelves feulements by extirpating the nations of Canaan, the rank which they were to hold among the nations of Syria and the adjacent countries, together with the difficulty of restraining a people so little civilized and enlightened from the idolatrous worship which prevailed among their neighbours : All thcse circumstances were certainly to be taken into account j and had the legislator of the Jews not attended to them, his institutions must have remained in force only for a short period ; nor could they have produced auy lastshg effects on the character of the nation, with a due attention to these circumstances, let us descend to an examination os particulars.
Although in every religion or superstition that has prevailed through the world, we sind one part of its in-stitutions to consist in the enjoining of certain festivals to be celebrated by relaxation from labour, and the per· sormance of certain ceremonies in honour of the gods ; yet in none, or almost none besides the Jewish, do we sind every seventh day ordained to be regularly kept holy. One great end which the legislator of the Jews had in view in the institution of the Sabbath was, to impress them with a belief that God was the maker of the universe. In the early ages of the world a great part of mankind imagined the stars, the sun, the moon, and the other planets, to be eternal, and consequently objects highly worthy of adoration. To convince the Israelites of the absurdity of this belief, and prevent them from adopting that idolatry, Moses taught them, that those confpicuδus objects which the Gentile nations regarded as eternal, and endowed with divine power and intelligence, were created by the hand of Gβd } who, after bringing all things out of nothing, and giving them form, order, and harmony, in the space of
fix 
days, rested on the
seventh
srom all
his
works. Van-ous passages in the OΓd Testament concur to show, 
that this was one great end of the uistitution of the
Sabbath. The
observance of the Sabbath, and detesta-tiυn of idolatrous worship, are frequently inculcated together ; and, again, the breach of the Sabbath, and the worship of idols, are usually reprobated at the same time. Another good reason for the institution of a Sabbath might be,
to
remind the Jews of their delive-rance from bondage, to inspire them with humanity to strangers and domestics, and to mitigate the rigours of servitude.
The purposes for which the other festivals of the Jewish religion were instituted appear also of sussicient importance. The great miracle, which, after a series of other miracles, all directed to the same end, finally effected the deliverance of the Jews out of Egypt ; and their actualdeparture from that land of servitude, might well be commemorated in the feast of the paffover. To recal to the minds of posterity the history of their ancestors, to impress them with an awful and grateful sense of the goodnefs and greatnefs of God, and to make them think of the purposes for which his almighty power had been so signally exerted, were surely good reaions for the institution of sucsh a festival. The feast of Pentecost celebrated the sirst declaration of the law by Moses, in the space of fifty days after the feast of the paffover. It ferved also as a day of folemn thanksgiving for the blessings of a plenteous harvest. Οη the feast of tabernacles, they remembered the wanderings of their ancestors through the wilderness, and expreffed their gratitude to heaven for the more comfortable circumstances in which they found themselves placed. The feast of ncw moons served to fix their kalendar, and determine the times at which the other festivals were to be celebrated ; on it trumpets were founded, to give public notice of the event which was the cause of the festival ; no servile works were performed, divine fervice was carefully attended, and the first fruits of the month were offered to the Lord. The Jewish legiila-tor limited his festivals to a very fmall number, while the heathens devoted a confiderable part of the year to the celebration of theirs. But we perceive the occasions upon which the Jewish festivals were celebrated to have been of suitable importance ; whereas those of the heathens were often celebrated on trifling or ridiculous occafions. Piety and innocent recreation
ssiared
the Jewish festival ; the festivals'of the heathens were chief
ly
devoted to debauchery and idleness.
The Hebrews had other solemn seasons of devotion besides the weekly Sabbath and the£e annual festivals. Every seventh year they rested from labour: they were then neither to plough, to low, nor to prune; and what-ever the earth produced spontaneousiy that year belong
ed
rather to strangers, orphans, and the poor, than to the proprietors of the ground. Οη this year insolvent debtors were discharged from all debts contracted by purchasing the neceffaries of life : and the great end of this release from debts contracted during the preceding fix years, appears to have been to prevent the Hebrew 
from
flying to the Gentiles and forsaking his religion when embarraffed in his circumstances. None but native Israelites and proselytes of righteousness were admitted to this privilege j it was refused
to
strangers, and even to proselytes of the gate. The jubilee was 
a
festival
to
be celebrated every fiftieth year. It produced the fame effects with the sabbatical year as to 
rest from labour and the discharge of debts
j with this addition,
that on the
year of the jubilee slaves obtained their freedom, and the lands reverted to the old pro-prietors. Οη the year of the jubilee, as on the sabba» tical year, the lands were to rest uncultivated, and law-suits were now to terminate. The chief design of this institution appears to have been, to preserve the order of ranks and property originally established in the Hc-brew state. None but israelites or circumcised coq-verts could enjoy the benefit pf this institution ; nor could even these hope to regain their estates on the year of the jubilee, if they fold them for any other purpose but to supply their necessities. The law relative to ufury was evidently founded on the same plan of polity with respect to property. To almost any other nation fuch a law, it must be confeffed, would have been unsuitable and unjuft : but as the Jews were not de-signed lor a trading nation, they could have little occafion to borrow, unless to relieve distress; and as an indulgence to people in fuch circumstances, the Jew was foi bidden to exact uiury from his brother to whom he had lent money.
The Jewish legiflator, we may well think, would
be
disposed to adopt every proper method to prevent his nation from tailing away into the idolatry of heathen nations. Probably one reason of the distinctions
be
tween
clean
beasts which they were permitted to eat, and
unclean
beasts, the eating of which they were tarn >sht to consider as pollution, was to prevent them from con-viyial intercourfe with profane nations, by which they might be seduced to idolatry. ∖Ve do not readily
sit 
down at table with people who are fond of dishes which we regard with abhorrence. And if the Jews were taught to loathe the slesh of some of thofe animals which were among the greatest delicacies of the Gentiles, they would naturally of consequence avoid fitting down aζ meat with them, either at their ordinary meals or at those entertainments which they prepared in honour of their deities ; and this we may with good reason con-sider as one happy mean to preserve them from idolatry· Besides, the Jews were permitted, or rather in-joined, to eat animals which the Gentiles reverenced as sacred, and from which they religiously witlι-lιeld alI violence. Goats, sheep, and oxen, were worshipped
in 
Egypt (see Polytheism and Pan) ; and several learned writers are of opinion, that Moses directed his people to sacrisice and eat certain of the favourite animals of the Egyptians, in order to remove from their minds any opinions which they might have otherwise entertained os the sanctity ot thole pretended deities. Many of the observances which Moses injoined with regard to food, appear to have been intended to inspire the Israel-ιtes with contempt for the superstitions of the people among whom they had fo long lojourπed∙ Fhey were to kill the animal which the Egyptians worshipped;
to 
roast the stesh which that people ate raw j to eat the head, which they never ate ; and to drefs the entrails, which they fet apart for divination. These distinctions concurred with the peculiarities of their drefs, language, government, customs, places, and times of worship, and even the natural situation of their country, by which they were in a manner confined and fortified on all sides, to separate them in luch a manner from neighbouring nations, that they might escape the infection of their idolatry. And if we reflect both on the design for
which Providence separated the Israelites from
other
nations, and
on the probability that, in
the state of
fo-ciety in which mankind were during the earlier period of the Jewish history, the Jews, by mixing with other nations, would rather have been themselves converted to idolatry than have converted idolatrous nations to the worship of the true God ; we cannot but be satisfied, that even this, however it may at first appear, was a benefit, not a disadvantage ; and in the author of their legiilation wisdom, not caprice.
But not only in the distinctions of meats, and between clean and unclean animals, does the legislator of the Jews appear to have laboured to fix a barrier be-tween them and other nations which might preserve them from the contagion of idolatry—we shall not err, perhaps, if we ascnbe many particulars of their worship to this defign in the institutor. The heathens had gods who presided over woods, rivers, mountains, and valleys, and to each of these they offered sacrifices, and performed other rites os worship in a suitable place. Sometimes the gr®ve, sometimes the mountain top, at ■other times the bank os the river or the brink of the spring, was the sceae of their devotions. But as the •unity of the divine nature was the truth the most ear-nestly inculcated on the children- of Israel ; so in order to impress that truth on their minds with the more powerful efficacy, they were taught to offer their facri-sices and other offerings only in one place, the place chosen by the Lord ; and death waβ threatened to those who dared to disobey the command. To confirm this idea, one of the prophets intimates, that when idolatry should be abolished, the worship of God should not be confined to Jerusalem, but it would then be lawful to worship him anywhere.
The whole institutions and observances of the Jewish religion appear to have been designed and happily calculated to impress the minds of the people with veneration and respect for the Deity. All the festivals which either commemorated some gracious dispenlation ef his providence towards their ancestors, or served as days of thanksgiving for the constant returns of his goodnefs to those who celebrated them, and all the other rites defigned to fortify them against idolatry, served at the fame time to impress their hearts with awful reverence for the God of Jacob, various other particulars in the institutions of the Jewish economy appear to have been directed solely to that end. Into the most focred place, the Holy of Holies, none but the high priest was admitted, and he only once a year. No five was ufed in sacrifice but what was taken from the altar. Severe punishments were on various occafions inflicted on such as presumed to intermeddle in the service of the
foil
ctuary in a manner contrary to what the law had directed. All the laws respecting the character, tlιe cireumstances, and the services, of the priests and the Levites, appear plainly to have a fimilar ten-dency.
In compliance with the notions
of
Deity which naturally prevailed among a gross and rude people, though •no vifible object of worship was granted to the Jews, yet they were allowed in their wanderings through the wilderness to have a tabernacle or portable temple, in which the sovereign os the universe sometimes deigned to display some rays of his glory. Incapable as they were of conceiving aright concerning the spiritual na
ture
and the omniprcsence of the Deity, they might possibly
have thought Jehovah careless and indifferent 
about them, had they been at no time favoured with
a 
vifible demonstration of his presence.
The sacrifices in use among the Gentiles in their ' worship of idols were permitted by the Jewish legisla-tor ; but he directed them to be offered with views very different from those with which the Gentiles sacri-ficed to their idols. Some of the sacrifices of the Jew
ish
ritual were designed to avert the indignation oi the Deity ; some to expiate offences and purify the heart ; and all of them to abolish or remove idolatry. Lultra-tions or ablutions entered likewise into the Jewish ritual; but these were recommended and enjoined by Moses for purpofes widely different from those which induced the heathens to place so high a value upon them. The heathens practised them with magical and fuperstitious ceremonics ; but in the Jewish ritual they were intended limply for the cleanfing away of impurities and pol-lutions.
The theocratical form of government to which the Jews were subject, the rewards which they were sure of receiving, and the punishments which they were equally liable to suffer in the present life, had a powerful effect to remove superftition and preserve them from idolatry, as well as to support all the social virtues among them. They were promised a numerous offspring, a land flowing' with milk and honey, long life, and victory over their enemies, on the condition of their paying a faithful obedience to the will of their heavenly Sovereign ; plague, famine, disease, defeats, and death, were threatened as the puniflιments to be inflicted on those who violated his laws 5 and these fonctions, it must be allowed, were happily accommodated to the genius of a rude and carnal-minded people, attentive only to pre-sent objects, and not likely to be influenced by remote and spiritual considerations.
There were other rites and prohibitions in the Mo-foic law, which appear to have^had but little connection with religion, morals, or policy. These may be more liable to be objected against, as adding an unnecessary weight to a buιden which, though heavy, might yet have been otherwise borne in consideration of the advantages connected with it. Even these, however, may perhaps admit os being viewed in a light in which they flιall appear to have been in no way unfavourable to the happiness of tho'se to whom they were enjoined. They appear to have had none of them an immoral tendency; all of them had, in all probability, a tendency to re-move or prevent idolatry, or to support, in some way or other, the religious and the civil establishment to which they belonged.
From these views of the spirit and tendency of the Jewish religion, we may fairly conclude it to have been happily calculated to promote the welfare of society. In comparing it with other religions, it is neceffary to reflect on the peculiar purposes tor which it was given ; that its two principal objects were to preserve the Jews a separate people, and to guard them against the contagion of the surrounding idolatry, when these things are taken into conlideration, every candid mind acquainted with the history of ancient nations will readily
ac
knowledge that the whole system, though calculated in-deed in a peculiar manner for them, was as happily adapted for the purposes for which it had been wifely and graciously intended, as it is poffible to imagine any
Rich system to be. It would be unhappy, indeed, if, on a comparison of pure theism with polytheiftn, the latter, with all its absurdities, should be found more beneficial to mankind than the former. Tbe theism of the Jews was not formed to be diffeminated through the earth ; that would have been inconsistent with the purpofes for which it is said to have been designed. But while the Jews were separated by their religion from all other nations, and perhaps, in some degree, fixed and rendered stationary in their progress towards resine-ment, they were placed in circumstances, in respect to laws, and government, and religion, and moral light, which might with good reason render them the envy 
of
every other nation in the ancient world.
IV. The Christian religion next demands our attention. It is to be considered as an improvement of the Jewish, or a new superstructure raised on the same basis. If the effects of the Jewiftt religion were beneficial to those among whom it was established, they were confined almost to them alone. But is the spirit of Christianity equally pure and benignant ? Is its influence equally beneficial and more diffustve than that of Judaism ? Does it really merit to have triumphed over both the theism of the Jews and the polytheisin of the heathens ?
If we consider the doctrines and precepts of the Christian religion, nothing can be more happily calculated to raife the dignity of human nature, and promote the happiness of mankind. The happiness of the individual is best promoted by the exercise of love and gratitude towards God, and relignation to his providence ; of humanity, integrity, and good will towards men ; and by the due government βf our appetites and passions. Social happiness again proceeds from the members of society entertaining a disinterested regard for the public welfare ; being actively indαftrious each in his proper sphere of exertion ; and being strictly just and faithful, and generousiy benevolent in their mutual intercourfe. The tenor of the gospel inculcates these virtues ; it feems everywhere through the whole of the Christian code to have been the great design of its Author to in-spire mankind with mild, benevolent, and peaceable dif-positions, and to form them to courteous manners. Christianity again represents the Deity and his ∙attri-butes in the fairest light; even fo as to render our ideas of his nature, and the manner in which he exerts his power, consistent with the most correct principles of morality that can be collected from all the other religions that have prevailed in the earth, and from the writings of the most admired philosophers. The ritual observances which Christianity enjoins are few in number, eafy to perform, decent, expressive, and edifying. It inculcates no duties but what are founded on thé principles of human nature, and on the relation in which men stand to God, their Creator, Redeemer, and Sanctifier ; and it prescribes accurate rules for the regulation of the conduct. The assistance of the spirit of God is promised in this sacred volume to those who assiduously labour to difcharge the duties which it enjoins ; and it exhibits a striking example of spotless pu-rity, which we may fafely venture to imitate. The gospel teaches that worldly afflictions are incident to both good and bad men ; a doctrine highly conducive to virtue, which consoles us in distress, prevents despair, ⅛n∙d encourages us to persist sirmlv in otιr integrity under every difficulty and trial. Christiansty reprefents all men as children of the fame God, and heirs of the fame salvation, and levels all distinctions of rich and poor, as accidental and insignisicant in the sight of him who rewards or punishes with impartiality according to the merits or demerits of his creatures. This doctrine is highly favourable to virtue, as it tends to humble the proud, and to communicate dignity of sentiment to thc lowly ; to render princes and inferior magistrates mo-derate and just, gentle and condescending, to their inferiors. It farther requires hushands to be affectionate and indulgent to their wives, wives to be faithful and respectful to their hushands, and both to be true and constant to each other. Such is the purity of the gofpel, that it forbids us even to harbour impure thoughts; it requires us to abandon our vices, however dear to us ; and to the cautious wisdom of the serpent it directs us to join the innocent simplicity of the dove. The Christian dispensation, to prevent a perseverance in immorality, offers pardon for the pail, provided the offender forfake his vicious practices, with a firm refolution to act differently in future. The fonctions of the gospel have a natural tendency to exalt the mind above the paltry pursuits of this world, and to render the Christian incorruptible by wealth, honours, or plea-sures. The true Christian not only abstains from in-justice towards others, but even forgives those injuries which he himself suffers, knowing that he cannot otherwise hope for forgiveness from God. Such are the precepts, such the spirit, and such the general tendency of the gospel. Even those who refused to give credit to its doctrines and history have yet acknowledged the excellence of its precepts. They have acknowledged, that " no religion ever yet appeared in the world of which the natural tendency was so much directed to promote the peace and happiness of mankind as the Christian ; and that the gospel of Christ is one continued leffon of the strictest morality, of justice, benevolence, and univerfol charity.” Thefe are thertvords of Bolingbroke, one of its keenest and most insidious op-ponents. without examining the effects of this religion on society, we might almost venture to pronounce with confidence, that a religion, the precepts of which are so happily formed to promote all that is just and excellent, canηot but be in the highest degree beneficial to mankind. By reviewing the effects which it has actually produced, the favourable, opinion which we naturally conceive of it, after constdering its precepts, cannot but be confirmed.
Οηε circumftance we mtist take notice of as rather unfavourable to this review. It is really impoffible to do justice to Christianity by fuch a discuffion of its merits. The virtues which it has a natural tendency to produce and cherish in the human heart, are not of a noisy ostentatious kind ; they often escape the Observation of the world. Temperance, gentleness, patience, benevolence, justice, and general purity of manners, are not the qualities which most readily attract the admiration and obtain the applaufe of men. The man of Ross, whom Mr Pope has so justly celebrated, was a private character ; his name is nt w likely to live, and his virtues to be known to the latest posterity : aud yet, however disinterested his virtues, however beneficial his influence to all around him, had his character not attracted thc notice of that eminent poet, his name
would perhaps ere this time have been lost in oblivion. Individuals in private life seldom engage the attention of the historian ; his object is to record the actions of princes, warriors, and statesmen. Had not the profes-sors of Christianity in the. earlier ages of its existence been expofed to persecutlons, and unjust âcculations srom which they were called on to vindicate themselves, we shonld be strangers to the names and virtues of saints and martyrs, and to the learning and endowments of the first apologists for Christianity. We cap therefore only trace the general influence of the msti-tutions of Christianity on society. We cannot hope to make an accurate enumeration of particulars. In many of the countries in which it has been established, it has produced a very favourable change on the circumstaiices of domestic life. Polygamy, a practice repugnant to. the will of our Creator (fee Polygamy), who has declared his intentions in this instance in the plainest manner, by causing nearly equal numbers ol males and females to be brought into the world, was never com-pletely abohshed but by Christianity.
‘ The practice of divorce, too, though in some cases proper and even neceffary, had been lo much abused at the time of our Saviour’s appearance in the world, that he found reason to declare it unlawful, unless in the ease of adultery. The propriety and reasonableness of this prohibition will sufficiently appear, if we conlideι, that when divorcesz are easily obtained, both parties will often have nothing elfe in view at the period of marriage than the diffolution of their nuptial engagements after a short cohabitation ; the interests of the hushand and the wife will almost always be separate ; and tbe children of such a marriage are scarce likely to enjoy the cordial affection and tender watchful care of either parent. The hushand in fuch a case will naturally bc to his wife, not a friend and protector, but a tyrant ; fear and deceit, not love, gratitude, or a sense of duty, will be the principles of the wife’s obedience.
In another iwstance, likewise, Christianity has produced an happy changé on the circumstances of domestic life ; it must be acknowledged to havc contributed greatly to the abolition of stavery, or at least to the mi-tip ation of the rigour of servitude. The customs and laws of the Romans in relation to slaves were cruel and severe. Masters were often so inhuman as to remove aged, sick, or infirm staves, into an island in the Tiber, where they fuffered them to perish without pity or assistance. The greater part of the subjects of many of those republics which enjoyed the most liberty, groaned under tyrannical oppreffion ; they were condemned to drag out a miserable existence in hard labour, under inhuman usage, and to be transferred like beasts from one master to another. The shardships of siavery were eased, not by any particular precept of the Gofpel, but by the o∙entle and humane spirit which breathed through the general tenor of the whole systctn of dortrines and precepts os which the Gospel consists. It must indeed be allowed, that a trade in siaves is at present carried on by people who prefume to call themselves Christians, and protected by the legisiature of Christian states: but the spirit of the Christian code condemns the practice, and the true Christian will not engage in it.
Partly by the direct and conspicuous, partly by the secret and unseen, influence of Christianity fince its promulgation in the world, the hearts of men have been
gradually softened; even barbarians have been
formed to
mildness and humanity ; the influence of selfishness has been checked and restrained; and even war, amid all the pernicious improvements by which men have fought to render it more terrible, has affirmed much more of the spirit of mildnefε and peace than ever entered into it during the reign of heathenism.
If we review the history of mankind with a view to their political circumstances, we shall sind, that by some means or other, it has happened, since the time when the Gospel was first preached, that both systems of legislature and forms of government have been raised to much greater perfection, at least in those parts of the world into which the religion of Jesus has made its way, and obtained an establishment.
The popular government of the Romans, notwithstanding the multiplicity of their laws, and the imperfections os their political constitution, was, no doubt, happily enough adapted to promote the increafe of the power and the extension of the empire of Rome. In Greece there were various republics, the wisdom and impartiality of whose laws have been highly celebrated. But we apprehend that there is a sufficient number of well authenticated facts to warrant us to affirm, that since Christianity has been propagated, and has had suf-sicient time to produce its full effect on arts, manners, and literature, even under governments the form oi which might appear less favourable than tlm celebrated models of antiquity to the liberty and happiness ol the people in general, these actually have been much better provided for than under the laws of Athens or Sparta, or even of Rome in the days of the consuls. It is a juft and happy obiewatiυn of Monteiquieu, who has attributed so much to the influence of climate and local circumstances, that “ the mildness so frequently recommended in the Gospel is incompatible with the despotic rage with which an arbitrary tyrant punishes lus subjects, and exercises himself in cruelty. Tt is the Christian religion (says he) which, in spite of the extent of empire, and the influence of climate, has hindered despotism from being established in Ethiopia, and has carried into Africa the manners of Europe. The heir to the empire of Ethiopia enjoys a principality, and gives to other subjects an example of love and obedience— Not far from hence may be seen the Mahometan shut-ting up the children of the king of Sennaar, at whose death the council fends to murder them in favour of the prince who ascends the throne. Let us set before our eyes (continues that eloquent writer), in the third chapter of the 24th book of his Spirit of Laws, on one hand the continual ιnaffacres of the kings and generals of the Greeks and Romans, and on the other the deduction of people and cities by the famous conquerors-Timur Beg and Jenghiz Kan, who ravaged Asia, and we shall perceive, that we owe to Christianity in government a certain political law, and in war a certain law of nations, which allows to the conquered the great-
advantages of liberty, laws, wealth, and always religion, when the conqueror is not blind to his own interest.”
These are the reflections of no common judge in this matter, but one who had long studied the history of nations, and observed the phenomena of the various forms of society, with such fuccess as few others have attained.
But on no
occafion has
the
mild
influence
of Christi-anity been more eminently displayed, or more happily exerted, than in softening· and humanizing the barbarians who overturned the Roman empire. The idolatrous religion which prevailed among those tribes before their converfion to Christianity, instead
of
disposing them to cultivate humanity and mildness of manners, contributed strongly to render them fierce and blood-thirsty, and eager to distinguish themselves by deeds of savage valour. But no sooner had they fettled in the dominions of Rome, and embraced the principles of Christianity, than they became a mild and generous people.
we are informed by Mosheim, who was at pains to collect his materials from the most authentic sources, that in the loth century Christian princes exerted themselves in the converfion of nations whose sierceness they had experienced, in order to sosten and render them more gentle. The mutual humanity with which nations at war treat each other in modern times, is certainly owing, in a great measure, to the influence of the mild precepts of the Gospel. It is a fact worthy of notice too, that during the barbarous ages, the spiritual courts of justice were more rational and impartial in their decisions than civil tribunals.
How many criminal practices which prevailed among heathen nations have been abolished by their conversion to Christianity ! Christians of all nations have been observed to retain the virtues and reject the vicious practices of their respective countries. In Parthia, where polygamy prevailed, they are not polygamists ; in Persia, the Christian father does not marry his own daughter. By the laws of Zoroaster the Perstans committed incest until they embraced the Gospel ; after which period they abstained from that crime, and observed the duties of chastity and temperance, as enjoined by its precepts. Even the polished and enlightened Romans were cruel and blood-thirsty before the propagation of the Gospel. The breaking of a glass, or iome inch trifling offence, was sussicient to provoke vidius Pυllio to cast his ∩aves into sish-ponds to be devoured by lampreys. The effusion of human blood was their favourite entertainment ; they delighted to see men combating with beasts, or with one another ; and we are informed on respectable authority, that no wars ever made sucsh havock on mankind as the fights of gladiators, which sometimes deprived Europe of 20,000 lives in one month. Not the humanity os Titus, nor the wisdom and virtue of Trajan, could abohsh the barbarous fpectacle. However humane and wise in other inftances, in this practice those princes complied with the custom os their country, and exhibited splendid shows of gladiators, in which the combatants were matched by pairs ; who, though they had never injured nor offended each Other, yet were obliged to maim and murder one another in cold blood. Christian divines soon exercised their pens against these horrid practices; the Christian emperor Constantine restrained them by edicts, and Ho-norius finally abolished them. It would be tedious to proceed through an enumeration of particulars ; but wherever Christianity has been propagated, it has constantly operated to the civilization os the manners of mankind, and to the abolition of absurd and criminal practices. The Irish, the Scotch, and all the ancient inhabitants of the British isles, were, notwithstanding
their intercourfe with the Romans, rude barbarians, till such time as they were converted to Christianity. The inhuman practice of expofing infants, which once pre-vailed so generally over the world, and still prevails a-mong some Pagan nations, even under very humane and enlightened legislatures, yielded to the influence of Christianity.
Let us likewise remember, in honour of Christianity, that it has contributed eminently to the diffuiion of knowledge, the preservation and the advancement of learning. AVhen the barbarians overspread Europe, wshat must have become of the precious remains of polished, enlightened antiquity, had there been no other deposttaries to preserve them but the heathen priests ? we allow that even the Romish clergy during the dark ages did not study the celebrated models of ancient times with much advantage themselves, and did not labour with much assiduity to make the laity acquainted with them. It must even be acknowledged, that they did not always preserve those monuments of genius with sussicient care, as they were often ignorant of their real value. Yet, after all, it will be granted, it cannot be denied, that had it not been sor the clergy of the Christian church, the lamp of learning would, in all probability, have been entirely extinguished, during that night of ignorance and barbarity in which all Europe were buried for a long series of centuries, after the irruption of the barbarians into the Roman em
pire.
Such is the excellence of the Christian system, and such its tendency to meliorate the human character, that its beneficial influence lias not been confined to those who have received its doctrines and precepts, and have profeffed themselves Christians; it has even produced many happy effects on the circumstances and the characters os Pagans and infidels, who have had opportunities of beholding the virtues of Christians, and learning the excellence of the morality of the gospel. Those virtues which distinguifiied the character of the apostate Julian were surely owing in no inconfiderable degree to his acquaintance with Christianity ; and it is an undeniable fact, that after the propagation of Christianity through the Roman empire, even while the purity of that holy religion was gradually debased, the manners of those Pagans who remained unconverted became more pure, and their religious doctrines and worship less immoral and absurd.— We might here adduce a tedious series of facts to the same purpose. whenever Christians have had any intercourfe with Pagan idolaters, and have not concealed the laws of the gospel, nor shown by their conduct that they dis-regarded them, even those who have not been converted to Christianity have, however, been improved in their dispositions and manners by its influence. The emperor, whose virtues we have mentioned as arifing, in a certain degree, from his acquaintance with Christianity, in a letter to an Heathen pontiff, desires him to turn his eyes to the means by which the superstition of Christians was propagated: bykindness to strangers, by sanctity of life, and by the attention which they paid to the burial of the dead. He recommends an imitation of their virtues, exhorts him to canse the priests of Galatia to be attentive to the worship of their gods, and authorises him to strip them of the sacerdotal function, unless they obliged their wives, children, and servants,
to pay attention to the same duties. He likewise en-jυins works of beneficence, desires the priest to relieve the distressed, and to build houses for the accommodation of strangers of whatever religion ; and says, it is a disgrace for Pagans to difregard those of their own religion, while Christians do kind offices to strangers and enemies. This is indeed an eminent instance of the happy influence of Christianity even on the sentiments and manners of those who regarded the Christian name with abhorrence.
Upon the whole then, may we not, from the parti-cislars here exhibited concerning the influence of this religion on the manners and happiness of men in society, conclude that Christianity is infinitely superior to the superstitions of Paganism ? as being in its tendency unifoιraly favourable to the virtue and the happinefs of mankind, and even to the system of religion and laws delivered by Moses to the children of Israel : because, while the religion of the Jews was calculated only for one particular nation, and it may almost be said for one particular stage in the progress of society, Christiani-ty is an universal religion, formed to exert its happy influence in all ages and among all nations ; and has a tendency to dispel the shades of barliarism and ignorance, to promote the cultivation of the powers of the human understanding, and to encourage every virtuous refinement of manners.
V. Another religion, which has made and still makes a conspicuous figure in the world remains yet to be examined. The religion of Mahomet is that which we here allude to. whether we consider through what an extensive part of the globe that religion prevails, the political importance of the nations among whom it is professed, or the striking peculiarity of cha-racter by which it is distinguished from all other religious systems—it is for all these reafons well worthy of particular notice. Like the Jewish religion, it is not barely a system os religious doctrines and general moral precepts ; it forms both the civil legislature and. the religious system of thofe nations among whom it is professed ; and, like it too, it would appear to be calcula-t⅛d rather for one particular period in the progress of mankind from rudenefs to refinement, than for all ages and all states of fociety.
The history of its origin is pretty well known, and we have had occasion to enlarge upon it under a former article (fée Mahomet and< Mahometanism). ∖Ve are not here to trace the impostures of the prophet, or to consider the arts by which, he io succefsfully accomplished his designs ; but merely to eonsider the morality of his religion, and its influence on civil order and the happiness of fociety.
If we view the state of the- nations among whom it is established, we cannot hefitate
a
moment to declare if friendly to . ignorance, to despotism, and to impurity of manners- The Turks, the Perfians, and the Malays, are all Mahometans ; and in reviewing their history aud confidering their present state, we might find a sufficient nnmhër of facts to justify the above aflertion and we must not neglect to observe, that, as those nations are not known to have ever been since their con-verfion to Mâhometanifm under a much happier government, or in a much more civilized state than at present, it cannot be, with any degree of fairnefs, argued, with 
refpect to Mahometanisen as with respect to Chriitiani-.
ty, that it is only when its influence is so opposed by other causes as to prevent it from producing its full effects, that it does not conduct those societies among which it is eftablished to an high state of civilization and refinement.
Οηε, and that by no means an inconfiderable, part of the Koran, was occafionally invented to solve some difficulty with which the prophet found himself at the time perplexed, or to help him to the gratification of his ruling passions, lust and ambition, when he and his followers were, at any time, unsuccessful in those wars by which he fought to propagate his religion, to prevent them from falling away into unbelief, or finking into despondency, he took care to inform them that God sussered such misfortunes to befal believers, as a pυniflιment for their fins, and to try their faith. The doctrine of predestination, which he affiduously inculcated, had an happy effect to perfuade his followers to rush boldly into the midst of death and danger at his command. He prevailed with Zeyd to put away his -wife, married her himself, and pretended that his crime had the approbation of heaven ; and, in the Koran, he introduces the Deity approving of this marriage. Being repulsed from the fiege of Mecca, he made a league with the inhabitants ; but on the very next year, finding it convenient to surprife the city, by violating this treaty, he justified his perfidy by teaching his followers to difregard promises or leagues made with infidels. In some instances again, we find absurd prohibitions en-joined for fimilar reafons : his officers, having on some occafion drunk to excess, excited much riot and confufion in the camp, he prohibited the use of wine and other inebriating liquors among his followers in future* Now, though it must be acknowledged that many evils arise from the use of these liquors, yet we cannot but think that, when used in moderation, they are in many cafés beneficial to men ; and certainly as much allowed by God as. opium, which the Mahometans have substi-tuted in their place.
Mahomet· is allowed to have copied from the Chrb stian and the Jewish religions, as well as from the ido-latrous fiiperstitions which prevailed through Arabia, and thus to have formed a motley mixture of reafon and absurdity, of pure theism and wild superstition. He coniidered alfo the circumftances of his country, and the prejudices of his countrymen, when he attended to the former, he was generally judicious enough to fuit his doctrines and decifions to them with sufficient skill ; the latter he also managed with the greatest'art : but he entered into accommodation with them in in-stauces when a true prophet or a wise ;and upright le-gi∏ator would surely have oppofed them with decifive vigour. . where the prophet indulges his own fancy, 7  or borrows from the superstitions of hie countrymen, nothing can be more ridiculous than that.rhapsody of lies, contradictions, and extravagant fables, which he delivers to his followers.' Amazing are the absurdities which he relates concerning the patriarchs, concerning . Solomon, and concerning- the> animals that were affuιr bled in Noah’s ark.
But in the whole tissue cf abfurdities of which his system confists, there is nothing mere absurd, or more happily calculated to promote impurity of manners, than his descriptions of heaven and hell ; the ideas of future rewards and punishments which he fought to imprefe
on
the minds of his followers. Paradise was to abound with rivers, trees, fruits, and shady groves ; wine which would not intoxicate was to be there plentifully served up to believers ; the inhabitants of that happy region were all to enjoy perpetual youth ; and their powers of enjoyment were to be enlarged and invigorated, in order that so many fine things might not be thrown away upon them. " Instead of inspiring the bleffed inhabitants of paradise with a liberal taste for harmony and fcience, conversation,and friendship (says Mr Gibbon), Mahomet idly celebrates tbe pearls and diamonds, the robes of silk, palaces of marble, dishes of gold, rich wines, artificial dainties, numerous attendants, and the whole train of sensual luxury.—Seventy two houris, or black-eyed girls of refplendent beauty, blooming youth, virgin purity, and exquifite senfibility, will be created for the use of the meanest believer ; a moment of pleasure will be prolonged for ι ooo years, and his faculties will be increased ioo fold, to render him worthy of his felicity.” It must be acknowledged that he allows believers other more refined enjoyments than these ; thus they are to see the face of God morn-ing and evening ; a pleasure which is far to exceed all the other pleasures of paradise. The following is his description of the punishments of hell : The wicked are there to drink nothing but boiling stinking water ; breathe nothing but hot winds ; dwell for ever in continual burning fire and fmoke ; eat nothing but briars and thorns, and the fruit of a tree that rifeth out of the bottom of hell, whose branches resemble the heads of devils, and whole fruits fiιall be
in
their bellies like burning pitch.
All that we can conclude from a general view of the religion of Mahomet, from confidering the character os the prophet, er from reviewing the history of the nations among whom it has been established, is, that it is one tiffue of absurdities, with a few truths, however, and valuable precepts incongruously intermixed ; that a great part of it is unfavourable to virtuous manners, to wise and equal laws, and to the progress of knowledge and refinement. It often inculcates in a direct manner sentiments that are highly immoral ; it fubstitutes trifling, superstitious obfervaπces in the room of genuine piety and moral virtue; and it gives such views of futurity as render purity of heart no neceffary qualification for feeing God.
Surely, therefore, even the deist, who rejects all but natural religion, would not hefitate to prefer Christianity, and even Judaism, to the religion of Mahomet. Judaism, calculated for a peculiar people, was undoubtedly much more fublime and much more happily framed to render that people virtuous and·happy in the·circumstances in which they were placed; and Christianity we find to be an universal religion, suited to all circumstances and to all the stages of society, and acting, wherever it is received, with more or lets'force to the support of civil order, virtuous manners, improvement of arts, and the advancement· of fctcnce. However, as Mahometanism forms in feme measure a regular system, as it has borrowed many of the precepts and doctrines of Judaism and Christianity, not indeed without corrupting and degrading them; and- as it has contributed considerably to the support of civil government, although ⅛ a very imperfect form, in those countries 
in which st has obtained an establishment ;
for
all these
reafons we canaot but give it the preference to the su-perstitions of Paganism.
The whole result of our inquiries under this article, therefore, is, I. That as man, by the constitution of his mind, is naturally fitted for acquiring certain no-tions concerning the existence of invifible, superior be-ings, and their influence on human life ; so the reli-gious ideas which we find to have in all ages of the world, and in all the different stages of the progtess of society, prevailed among mankind, appear to have originated partly from the natural exertions of the human imagination, understanding, and passions, in various cir- ~ cumstances, and partly from supernatural revelation.
2.    
That though religious opinions, together with the moral precepts, and the rites of worship connected with them, may appear to have been in numerous instances injurious to the virtue and happinefs of society ; yetr  as they have often contributed to lead the mind to form moral distinctions, when it would otherwise in all probability have been an entire stranger to such distinctions ; and as they lrave always contributed in an effential manner to the establishment and the support of civil government—it must therefore be acknowledged that they have always, even in their humblest state, ∙ been more beneficial than hurtful to mankind.
3.    That when the different systems of religion that have prevailed in the world are comparatively viewed with respect to their influence on the welfare of society, we find reason to prefer the polytheisin of the Greeks and Romans to the ruder, wilder, religious ideas and ceremonies that have prevailed among savages ; Mahometanism, perhaps in sorne respects, to the pol⅛theifm of the Greeks and Romans ; Judaisin however to Mahometanism ; and Christianity to all of them.
RELIGIOUS, in a general sense, something that relates to religion.—we say, a religious life, religious society, &c.—Churches and church-yards^are religious places.—A religious war is also called a
croifade.
See ’ Croisade.
Religious, is also used .substantially for a person engaged by solemn vows to the monastic life; or a person shut up in a monastery to lead a life of devotion and -austerity, under some rule or institution. The male religious we popularly call
monks
and
friars ;
the female, 
nuns
and
canonejfes.
REMBR ANDT (Van Rhin), a Flemish painter and engraver of great eminence, was born in 16c6, in a mill upon the banks of the Rhine, from whence he derived his name of
Van Rhin.
This master was born -with a creative- genius, which never attained perfection. It was said of him, that he" would have invent" ed painting, if he had not found it already difcovered, without study, without the assistance of any master, but by his- own instinctj he formed rules, and a certain practical method for colouring ; and the mixture produced the defιgκed effect. Nature is not set off to the greatest advantage in his pictures; but there is such. a striking truth and simplicity in them,, that his heads, particularly his - portraits, ∙. seem animated, and rifing from the canvas. He was fond of strong contrasts of light and fiιade⅛ The light entered in his working-room only by a hole, in- the manner of a camera obscura, by which he judged with greater certainty of his product
■ tions... This artist considered painting like the stage,
*where
the characters do not
strike
, unlefs they are exaggerated. He did not pursue the method of the Fle-milh painters of sinishing his pieces. He fometimes gave his light such thick touches, that it seemed more like modelling than painting. A head of his has been shown, the nose of which was fo thick of paint, as that which he copied from nature. He was told one day, that by his peculiar method of employing colours, his pieces appeared rugged and uneven—he replied, he was a painter, and not a dyer. He took a pleasure in dressing his figures in an extraordinary manner : with this view he had collected a great number of eastern caps, ancient armour, and drapery long since out of fashion. when he was advised to consult antiquity to attain a better taste in drawing, as his was usually heavy and uneven, he took his counsellor to the closet where theie old vestments were deposited, -faying, by way of deri-sion, those were his antiques.
Rembrandt, like most men of genius, had many caprices. Being one day at work, painting a whole family in a single picture, word being brought him that his monkey was dead, he was so affected at the loss of this animal, that, without paying any attention to the persons who were fitting for their pictures, he painted the monkey upon the same canvas. This whim could not sail of displeafing those the piece was designed for; but he would not efface it, choosing rather to lose the dale of his picture.
This freak will appear still more extraordinary in Rembrandt, when it is considered that hc was extremely avaricious ; which vice daily grew upon him. He practised various stratagems to Fell his prints at a high price. The public were very desirous of purchafing them, and not without reason. In his prints the same taste prevails as in his pictures ; they are rough and irregular, but picturesque. In order to heighten the value of his prints, and increase their price, he made his son fell them as if he had purloined them from his father ; others he expofed at public sales, and went thither himself in disgusse to bid sor them ; sometimes fie gave out that he was going to leave Holland, and iettle in another conntry. These stratagems were suc-eessful, and he got his own price for his prints. At other times he would print his plates half finished, and expose them to sale ; he afterwards finished them, and they became srtsh plates, when they wanted retouch-ing, he made some alterations in them, which promoted the sale of his prints a third time, though they differed but little srom the first impressions.
His pupils, who were not ignorant of his avarice, one day painted some pieces of money upon cards ; and Rembrandt no sooner saw them, than he was going to take them up. Hc was not angry at the pleasantry, but his avarice still prevailed. He died in 1674.
REMEMBRANCE, is when the idea of something formerly known recurs again to the mind without the operation of a like object on the external sen-fo^ry. See Memory and Reminiscence.
REMEMBRANCERS, anciently called
clerks os the remembrance,
certain officers in the exchequer, whereof three are distinguished by the names of the
kιηfs remembrancer,
the
lord treafurer, s remembrancer,
and the
remembrancer of thefrβ srnits,
The king’s remembrancer enters in his office all recognizances taken before the barons for any of the king’s debts, for appearances or observing of ordcrs ; he alfo takes all bonds for the king’s debts, 
&C.
and makes out proceffes thereon. He likewise issues proceffes against the collectors of the customs,excise, and others, for their accounts; and informations upon penal statutes are entered and sued in his office, where all proceedings in matters upon English bills in the ex-¢hequer-chamber remain. His duty further is to make out the bills of compositions upon penal laws, to take the statement of debts ; and into his office are delivered all kinds of indentures and other evidences which concern the affuring any lands to the crown. He every year
in crαβinο anirnarurn,
reads in open court the statute for election of sheriffs; and likewise openly reads in court the oaths of all the officers, when they are admitted.
The lord treasurer’s remembrancer is charged to make out process against all sheriffs, escheators, receivers, and bailiffs, for their accounts. He also makes out writs of
fieri sadas,
and extent for debts due to the king, either in the pipe or with the auditors ; and pro-ccss for all such revenue as is due to the king on account of his tenures. He takes the account of sheriffs; and also keeps a record, by which it appears whether the sheriffs or other accountants pay their proffers due at Easter and Michaelmas ; and at the same time he makes a record, whereby the sheriffs or other accountants keep their prefixed days : there are likewise brought into his office all the accounts of customers, comptrollers, and accountants, in order to make entry thereof on record ; also all estreats and amercements are certified here, &c.
The remembrancer of the firshfruits takes all com-pofitions and bonds for the payment os first-fruits and tenths ; and makes out process against iuch as do not pay the same.
REMINISCENCE, that power of the human mind, whereby it recollects itself, or calls again into its remembrance such ideas or notions as it had really forgot : in which it differs from memory, which is a treasuring up of things in the mind, and keeping them there, without forgetting them.
REMISSION, in phystcs, the abatement of the power or efficacy of any quality ; in opposttion to the 
increase
of the same, which is called
intenjion.
Remission, in law, &c. denotes the pardon of a crime, or the giving up the punishment due thereto.
Remission, in medicine, is when a distemper abates for a time, but does not go quite off.
REMI ΓTANCE, in commerce, the traffick or return os money from one place to another, by bills of exchange, orders, or the like.
REMONSTRANCE, an expostulation or humble supplication, addreffed to a king, or other superior, be-seeching him to reflect on the inconveniences or ill consequences of fome order, edict, or the like. This word is alfo used for an expostulatory counsel, or advice ; or a gentle and handsome reproof, made either in general, or particular, to apprize of or correct some fault, &c.
REMORA, or Sucking-eish, a fpecies of Eche-neis. Many incredible things are related of this animal by the ancients ; as that it had the power of stopping the largest and swiftest veffel in its course : and even to this day it is aiferted by the fishermen in the Mediterranean, that st^has a power of retarding the motion of their boats by attaching itself to them ; for
which reason they kill
it whenever they perceive this
retardation. But in what manner the remora performs this, we have no account.
REMORSE, in its worst sense, means that pain or anguish which one feels after having committed fome bad action. It also means tenderness, pity, or sym-pathetic forrow. It is most generally used in a bad senfe, and is applied to persons who feel compunction for feme great crime, as murder and such like. Mur-ders which have been committed with the utmost cir-cumspection and secrecy, and the authors of which could never have been discovered by any human investigation, have bcen frequently unfolded by the remorse and confession of the perpetrators, and that too many years afterwards. Οί this there are numerous instances, which are well authenticated, and which are so generally known that it is needless to relate them here. See Repentance.
REMPHAN, an idol or Pagan god whom St Stephen says the Israelites worshipped in the wilderness as they passed from Egypt to the land of Promise : “Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan ; figures which ye made to worship them.” That the martyr here quotes the foIlowing words of the prophet Amos, all commentators are a-greed : " Ye have borne the tabernacle of your Moloch, and Chiun your images, the star of your god, which ye made to yourfelves.” But if this coincidence be-tween the Christian preacher and the Jewish prophet be admitted, it follows, that
Chiun
and
Remphan
are two names of one and the fame deity. This is indeed farther evident from the
LXX
translators having sub-stituted in their version the word ι, α<i>α>'j instead of 
Chiun,
which we read in the Hebrew and English Bibles. But the question which still remains to be answered is, what god was worshipped by the name of 
Remphan, Raiphan,
cr
Chiun ?
for about the other divi-nity here mentioned there is no difputc. See Moloch.
That
Chiun
or
Remphan
was an Egyptian divinity, cannot be questioned ; for at the era of the
Exodus
the Hebrews must have been strangers to the idolatrous worship of all other nations ; nor are they ever accused of any other than Egyptian idolatries during their 40 years wanderings in the wilderness, till towards the end of that period that they became infected by the Moa-bites with the worship of
Baal-peor.
That
Moloch, Mo-leck, Melek,
or
Milcom,
in its original acceptation denotes 
a
king
or
chief,
is known to every oriental scholar ; and therefore when it is used as the name of a god, it undoubtedly signifies the
fun,
and is the fame divinity with the
Egyptian Oβris.
Reasoning in this way many critics, and we believe Selden is in the number, have concluded that
Chiun,
and of course
Remphan,
is the planet
Saturn ;
because
Chiun
is written
Ciun, Cevaη, Ceuan, Chevvin ;
all of which are modern oriental names of that planet.
But against this hypothesis insurmountable objections present themselves to our minds. It is universally allowed (see Polytheism), that the first objects of idolatrous worship were theÿh» and
moon,
considered
as the king and queen
of
heaven. The fixed stars, indeed, and the planets, were afterwards gradually admit -ted into the Pagan rubric ; but we may be sure that those would be first associated with the two prime luminaries which most refembled them in brightness, and were supposed to be most benignant to man. But the planet Saturn appears to the naked eye with so feeble a lustre, that, in the infancy of astronomy, it could not make such an impreffidn on the mind as to excite that admiration which we must conceive to have always preceded planetary worship. It is to be ob-served, too, that by the Pagan writers of antiquity Saturn is constantly represented as a star of baleful influence. He is termed the
leaden planet ;
the
planet of 
malevolent afpect i
the
difmal,
the
inhumaneβar.
That the Egyptians, at so early a period as that under consi-deration, should have adored as one of their greatest g®ds a planet obfcure in its appearance, distant in its situation, and baleful in its influence, is wholly incredible.
There is, however, another star which they might naturally adore, and which we know they actually did adore, as one of their most beneficent gods, at a very early period. This is the ασ7fαxvω∕ or
σnςu>ς
0 f the Greeks, the
earns
or
βella canicularis
of the Romans, and the
dog-βar
of modern Eurbpe. By the Egyptians it was called
Sothis
or
Soth,
which signifies y⅛∕i√y, 
beηeβeηce, fecundity ;
and it received this name, because making its appearance ip the heavens at the very time when the Nile overflowed the country, it was supposed to regulate the inundation. Οη this account Plutarch
(If. et Oβr.}
tells us, they believed the foul of their illustrious benefactress
Ifis
to have transmigrated into the ftar0'o∕Z>zj,∙ which they therefore worshipped as the divinity which rendered their country fruitful. It made its appearance, too, on the first day of the month
Thοth(K),
which· was the beginning of the Egyptian year, and as such celebrated with feasting and festivity ; and being by much the brightest star in the heavens, Horopollo 
(cap.
3.) informs us it was considered as sovereign over the rest. A combination of fo many import-ant circumstances might have induced a people less superstitious than the Egyptians to pay divine homage to that glorious luminary, which was confounded with 
Iβs,
who had been long regarded with the highest ve-neration ; and as Isis was the wife and lifter of osiris, and always associated with him, the star of Isis or
Remphan
was naturally associated with
Moloch,
the fame with· osiris.
But it will be asked, how the star which by the E-gyptians was called
Soth
or
Sothis
came to be woiship-ped by the Hebrews under the appellation of
Chiun
or
Remphan ?
This is a very pertinent question, and we ^ shall endeavour to answer it.
Every one knows that the pronunciation of oriental, words is very uncertain ; and that as the vowels were often omitted in writing, it is of very little importance to the meaning how they be supplied, provided we re-tain the radical consonants. The word
Chiun
may with equal propriety be written
Kiun, Kion,
or even
Kyoη,
(a)
This was the case at a very remote period ; but- it is otherwise at present, owing to the
Precession
of the Equinoxes.
See that article.
the Hebrew
jod
being convertible into the Greek υ or the Roman
y;
but the words
Cane, Chan, Kan,
or
Khan, 
which are often diversisied into
hen, Kyn, Cohen, Cahan, 
.signifying
Head, Chief, Prince, King,
&c. are diffused through a great part of Asia and Europe, lu the Chinese language
Sfgirι,
which signisies a
King,
is so si-milar to the word
Chiun
or
Khiun
under'consideration, that no etymologist will hefitate< to pronounce them of the same original and the same import. I he word 
Kan
or
Khan
is universally known to be an honorary ■title in Tartary ; and
Kaian
or
Kain,
which is manifestly cognate of the word
Chiun
or
Kiun,
is, in the
Pihevi 
or old Peisian language, the epithet applied to the dy-nasty of princes which fucceeded Cyrus the Great. Among the Scythians or ancient Tartars,
Ghiun
signisies the
Sun
and likewise the
day ;
and
Kung, Kinung, Kun,
runs through all the -dialects of the Gothic .tongue, every where denoting a
chief
or
fovereign.
In .the Syrian dialect,
Kon
signifies a prince ; and hence the Almighty is styled (Gen. xiv. 19.)
Konah,
which is translated
poffeffor,
but might have, >with perhaps more propriety, been rendered
Sovereign
of heaven and earth. In Hebrew, the word
Kahan
or
Kahen,
which λs the very fame with
Khan
or
Kan,
signifies either a 
prieft
or a
prince ;
and in Egypt
Kon
-was the name of the first Hercules or the
fun.
Hence the fame word in compofition denotes greatnefs, as
Can-obus
the great .serpent ;
Can-athoth,
the .great
Tkoth
or Mercury;
Can-pfiris,
the great
Oftris.
From tills deduction ∙ we would conclude, that the word, which is found in fo many tongues, and always .denotes
Chief, Prince, Sovereign,
is the very word
Chiun 
which the Egyptians and Hebrews applied to
Sothis,
as Being, in their conceptions, the chief or fovereign of asl the stars. This will appear still more probable, when Λve have afcertained the import of the word
Remphan, 
•or, as the LXX have it,
Raiphan.
Phan,
the latter part of this word, is unquestionably the same with
Pan,
the most ancient of the Egyptian gods (fee Pan). It is likewise a cognate of the Hebrew
Phanah,
conspexit, spectavit, vidit ; and the radical word seems to be ph ah, which fignifies some-times the countenance, and sometimes
tight.
Hence 
Phaethon,
which is compounded of
ph a
light,
eth
or
eft: 
fire, and
on
strength, came to be one of the names of the fun.
Rai,
which we commonly write
Rajah,
has long .dignified, among the Indians, a sishordinate prince ; and we know, that between India and Egypt there was a very early intercourfe.
Raiphan,
therefore, may be either the
royal tight
or the
bright prince,
subordinate to . Osiris ; and in either sense, it was a very proper epithet of
Sothis
in the Egyptian kalendar. The wr ord
Rem 
or
Rom,
again (for it is fometimes written Remphan, and sometimes Rompha), is no other than the Hebrew an
Rum
“ high, exalted.” Hence Remphan is the
high 
or
exalted tight,
which Sothis certainly was.
For this etymological disquisition we are indebted to Dr Doig, the learned author of
Letters on the Savage State,
who has written a differtation on
Chiun
and
Remphan,
of such value that we hope it will not be much longer with-held from the public. The afcertaining the identity of those names, and the god to which they belonged, is the leaft of its merit; for it will be found to throw much light upon many paffages in the üld Testament. what confirms his interpretation is, that the
idol consecrated by the Egyptians to
Sothis
or
the dog-star, was a female figure with a star on her head; and hence the prophet upbraids his - countrymen with having borne the
Star
of their deity.
Action of REMOVING, in Scots law. See -Law, N clxvii. 18.
REMURIA, festivals established at Rome by Romulus to appease the manes of his brother Remus. They were afterwards called
Lemuria,
and celebrated yearly.
-REMUS, the brother of Romulus, was expofed together with his brother -by the cruelty of his grandfather. In the contest which happened between the two brothers about building a city, Romulus obtained the preference, and Remus, for ridiculing the riling walls, was put to death by bis brother’s orders, or by Romulus himself (see Romulus). The Romans were afflicted with a plague after this murder; upon which the oracle was consulted, and the manes of Remus appeased by the institution of the Remuria.
RENAL, something belonging to the reins or Kidneys.
RENCOUNTER, in the military art, the encounter of two little bodies or parties of forces. In which fense
rencounter
is used in opposition to a pitched battle.
Rencounter, in single combats, is used by way of contradistinction to duel.—when two persons fall put and sigbt on the fpot without having premeditated the combat, it is called a
rencounter.
RENDEZVOUS, or RendEvous, a place appoint-ed to meet in at a certain day and hour.
RENE AI.MI A, in botany ; a genus of the mono-gynia order, belonging to the monandria class of plants. The corolla is trifid ; the nectarshm oblong ; the calyx monophyllous ; the anthera seffile, opposite to the nec-tarium ; the berry is sleffiy. There is only one species, which is a native of Surinam.
RENEGADE, or Renegado, a person who has apostatized or renounced the Christian faith, to embrace some other religion, particularly Mahometanism.
RENFREW, the county-town of Renfrewffiire, standing ©n the small river Cathcart, which flows into the Clyde at the distance of five miles from Glasgow, is a fmall but ancient royal borough, the feat of the sheriff’s court and of a preshytery. The town is neat-ly built, and the inhabitants enjoy a tolerable share of commerce.—Renfrew was originally joined to Lanerk, but wa9 made an independent iheriffdom by Robert II. who had a palace here. W. Long. 4. 26. N.Lat.55. 51.
RENFREWSHIRE, a county of Scotland, styled by way of eminence the
barony,
because it was the ancient inheritance of the Stuarts, is a small county, extending about 20 miles from north to fouth, and 13 from east to west, parted from Dumbartonshire by the river Clyde on the west, bordering on the east with La-nerkshire, and on the north with Cunningham. The face of the country is varied with hill and vale, wood and stream ; crowded with populous villages, and a-dorπed with the feats of gentlemen. The foil is in general fertile, producing rye, barley, oats, pease, beans, siax-, and some wheat : it likewise yields plenty of coal, and turf for fuel: and affords abundance of pafturage for sheep and cattle. The inhabitants are Lowlanderδ and Preshyterians ; wealthy and induftrious, addicted to traffic, and particularly expert in the linen manufacture.
Their genius is Cumulated to commerce,
by the example
of their neighbours of Glasgow, as well as tbe convenience of the river and frith of Clyde, along the course of which they are situated.
RENNES, a town of France, in Bretagne, and capital of that province. Before the revolution it had a bishop’s see, two abbeys, a parliament, and a mint. It is very populous ; the houses are fix or feven stories high, and the suburbs of larger extent than the toιvn itfeif. The cathedral church is large, and the parlia-ment-house a handsome structure. The great square belonging to it is surrounded with handlome houfes. There is a tower, formerly a pagan temple, which now contains the town-clock. It is seated on the river VÜ-laine, which divides it into two parts, and was ancient-ly fortified, but the walls are now in ruins, and the ditch nearly silled up. The siege of the city by Ed-ward III. king of England, is very celebrated in hi-story. The English and Breton army consisted of 40,000 men ; and nevertheless, after having remained before it fix months, were obliged to retire without success. E. Long. o. 23. N. Lat. 48. 7.
RENNET. See Runnet,
RENT, in law, a sum of money, or other considera-tion, iffuing yearly out os lands or tenements.
RENTE RING, in the manufactories, the same with sine-drawing. It confists in sewing two pieces of cloth edge to edge, without doubling them, so that the seam scaree appears ; and hence it is denominated
fine-drawing. 
lt is a French word meaning the same thing, and is derived from the Latin
reirahere,
or
re, in,
and
trahere, 
because the seam is drawn in or covered. WC are told*, that in the East Indies, if a piece of fine musiin be torn and afterwards mended by the sine-drawers, it will be impossible to discover where the rent was. Irf this country the dexterity of the sine-drawers is not so great as that of those in the east ; but it is still such as to enable them to defraud the revenue, by fewing a head or slip of English cloth on a piece of Dutch, Spanish, or other foreign cloth : or a siip of foreign cloth on a piece of English, so as to pass the whole as of a piece ; and by that means avoid the duties, penalties, &c. The trick was sirst discovered in France by M. Savary.
Renterino, in tapestry, is the working new warp into a piece of damaged tapestry, whether eaten by the rats or otherwife destroyed, and on this warp to restore the ancient pattern or design. The warp is to be of woollen, not linen. Among the titles of the French tapestry makers is included that of renterers. Fine-drawing is particularly used for a rent or hole, which happens in dressing or preparing a piece of cloth art-fully sewed up or mended with lilk. All fine-drawings are reckoned defects or blemishes ; and should be allow-
¢d
for in the price of the piece.
RENVERSE, inverted, in heraldry, is when any thing is set with the head downwards, or contrary to its natural way of standing. Thus, a chevron renverfé, is a chevron with the point downwards. They use also the same term when a beast is laid on its back.
RENUNCIATION, the act of renouncing, abdi-<cating, or relinquishing, any right, real or pretended.
REPARTEE, a fmart⅛ ready reply, especially in matters of wit, humour, or raillery. See Raillery.
REPEALING, in law, the revoking or annulling of a statute or the like.
No act of parliament shall be repealed the same seffion in which it was made. A deed or will may be repealed in part, and stand good sor the reft. It is held that a pardon of felony may be repealed on disproving the suggestion thereof.
REPELLENTS, in medicine, remedies which drive back a morbid humour into the mass of blood, from whence it was unduly secreted.
REPENTANCE, in general, means sorrow for any thing past. In theology it means such a sorrow for fin as produces newness of life, or such a conviction of the evil and danger of a iinful course as is sussicient to produce shame and sorrow in the review of it, and effectual refolutions of amendment. In this sense the evangelical writers use ^∙erαl usλtiα an J ∕ziτa.oιa. See Penitence and Theology.
REPERCUSSION, in music, a frequent repetition of the fame found.
REPERTORY, a place wherein things are orderly disposed, so as to be easily found when wanted. The indices of books are repertories, showing where the matters fought for are treated of. Common-place books are also kinds of repertories.
REPETITION, the reiterating of an action.
Repetition, in music, denotes a reiterating or playing over again the same part of a composition, whether it be a whole strain, part of a strain, or double strain, &c.
when the song ends with a repetition of the first strain, or part of it, the repetition is denoted by
da
capo,
or D. C.
i. e.
" from the beginning.”
Repetition, in rhetoric, a figure which gracefully and emphatically repeats either the fame word, or thc same sense in different words. See oratory, n
0 67 — 80.
The nature and defign of this figure is to make deep impressions on those we address. It expreffes anger and indignation, full aifurance of what we affirm, and a ve-hement concern for what we have espoused.
REPH1DIM (anc. geog.), a station of the Israel-ites near mount Horeb, where they murmured for want of water; when Moses was ordered to fmite the rock Horeb, upon which it yielded water. Here Joshua dif-comfited the Amalekites. This rock, out of which Moses brought water, is a stone of a prodigious height and thickness, rising out of the ground ; on two sides of which are several holes, by which the water ran. (Thevenot.)
REPLEGIARE, in law, signifies to redeem a thing taken or detained by another, by putting in legal fureties.
De homing REPLEGIANDO. See Homine.
REPLEVIN, in law, a remedy granted on a distress, by which the fi st poffeffor has his goods restored to him again, on his giving security to the sheriff that he will pursue his action against the party distraining, and return the goods or cattle if the taking them sliall be adjudged lawful.
In a replevin the person distrained becomes plaintiff ; and the person distraining is called the
defendant
or
avowant,
and his justification an
avowry.
At the common law replevins are by writ, either out of the king’s-bench or common-pleas ; but by statute, they are by plaint in the sheriff’s cyurt, and court-baron, for a perfon’g more speedily obtaining the goods distrained.
If
a plaint in replevin bc removed 'into' the court of king’s-bench, &c. and the plaintiff makes default and becomes non-suit, or judgment is given against him, the defendant hr replevin shall have the writ of
retorno 
habendo
of the goods taken in distress. See the next article.
REPLEVY, in law, is a tenant’s bringing a writ of replevin, or
replegiar't facias,
where his goods are taken by distress for rent ; which must be done within five days after the distress, otherwise at the five days end they are to be appraised and fold.
This word is also used for bailing a person, as in the case of a
h 'mine replegiando.
REPORT, the relation made upon oath, by officers or persons appointed to visit, examine, or estimate the statc, expences, &c. of any thing.
Report, in law, is a public relation of cases judicially argued, debated, resolved, or adjudged in any of the king’s courts of justice, with the causes and reafons of the fame, as delivered by the judges. Also when the court of chancery, or any other court, refers the stating of a case, or tire comparing os an account, to a mailer of chancery, or other referee, his certificate thereon is called a
report.
REPOSE, in poetry, &c. the same with rest and pause. See Rest, &c.
Repose, in painting, certain maffes or large a(Γem-blages of light and shade, which being well conducted, prevent the confusion of objects and figures, by enga<^ ging and fixing the eye so as it cannot attend to the other parts of the painting for some time ; and thus leading it to consider the several groups gradually, proceeding as it were from stage to stage.
REPRESENT ATION, in the drama, the exhibition of a theatrical piece, together with the scenes, machinery, &c.
REPRESENTATIVE, one who perforates or sup-plies the place of another, and is invested with his right and authority. Thus the house of commons are the reprefentatives of the people in parliament. See Commons and Parliament.
REPRIEVE, in criminal law (from
reprendre,
"to take back”), is the withdrawing of a sentence for an interval of time ; whereby the execution is suspended. See Judgment.
This may be, first,
ex
ar bitrio judicis,-either
before or after judgment : as, where the judge is not satisfied with the verdict, or the evidence is fuspicious, or the indictment is insussicient, or he is doubtful whether the offence be within clergy ; or sometimes if it be a small felony, or any favourable circumstances appear in the criminal’s character, in order to give room to apply to the crown for either an absolute or conditional pardon. These arbitrary reprieves may be granted or taken off by tlie justices of gaol-delivery, although their session be finished, and their commission expired : but this ra-ther by common usage than of strict right.
Reprieves may also be
ex neceffitate legis :
as wherc a woman is capitally convicted, and pleads her pregnancy. Though this is no cause to stay judgment, yet it is to respite the execution till she be delivered. This is a mercy dictated by the law of nature, w
favorem pro-
lis ;
and therefore no paît of the bloody proceedings in the reign of Queen Mary hath been more justly detest
ed, than the cruelty that was exercised in
the
--island of
Guernsey, of burning a woman big with child j ' and,' when through the violence of the flames the infant sprang forth at the stake, and was preserved by the by-standers, after some deliberations of the priests who assisted at the facrifice, they cast it into the fire as a young heretic. A barbarity which they newer learned from the laws of ancient Rome; which direct, with the same humanity as our own,
quod prœgnantis maliens damnatœ pcena cUJfèratur, quoad pariat :
which doctrine, has also prevailed in England, as early as the first memorials of our law will reach. In case this plea be made in stay of execution, the judge must direct a jury of twelve matrons or dsscreet women to inquire into the fact : and if they bring in their verdict
quick with child
(sor barely
with child,
unless it bc alive in the womb, is not sufficient), execution shall be staid generally till the next session ; and fo from session to session, till either she is delivered, or proves by the course of nature not to have been with child at all. But if she once hath had the benefit of this reprieve, and been delivered, and afterwards becomes pregnant again, she shall not be intitled to the benefit of a farther refpite for that cause. For; she may now be executed; before the child is quick in the womb ; and shall not, by her own incontinence, evade the sentence of justice.
Another cause.of regular reprieve is, if the offender become
non compos
between the judgment and the award of execution : for regularly, though a man be
compos 
when he commits a capital crime, yet if he becomes 
non compos
after, be shall not be indicted if after indictment, he shall not be convicted; if after conviction,, lie shall not receive judgment; if after judgment, he shall not be ordered for execution : for
furioβιs folo furore punit ur ;
and the law knows not but he might have offered fome reason, if in his senses, to have ftayed thefe. respectivc proceedings. It is therefore an invariable, rule, when any time intervenes between the attainder and the award of execution, to demand of the prisoner what he hath to allege why execution flιould not be awarded against him ; and, if he appears to be infane,, the judge in his discretion may and ought to reprieve, him. Ογ, the party may plead in bar of execution ; which plea may be either pregnancy, the king’s pardon, an act of grace, or diverfity of perfou,
viz.
that he is not the same that was attainted, and the like. In this last case a jury shall be impanelled to try this collateral issue, namely, the identity of his person ; and nob whether guilty or innocent, sor that has been decided before. And in these collateral issues the trial sliall be 
inftanter ;
and no time allowed the prisoner to make his. defence or produce his witneffes, unless he will make oath that he is not the perfon attainted : neither shall-any peremptory challenges of the jury be allowed the prisoner, though formerly such challenges were held to, be allowable whenever a man’s life was in question. If neither pregnancy, insanity, non-identity, nor other plea,, will avail to avoid the judgment, and stay the execution, consequent thereupon, the last and surest resort. is in the king’s most gracious pardon ; the granting of which is-the most amiable prerogative of the crown. Sec the article Pardon.
REPRISALS, a right which, princes claim of taking from their enemies any thing equivalent to what, they unjustly detain from them or their subjects. For 
as the
delay of making
war
may sometimes be detri -
mental to individuals who have suffered by depredations from foreign potentates, our laws have in some respects armed the fubject. with powers to impel the preroga-tive ; by directing the ministers of the crown to iffue letters of marque and reprisal upon due demand : the prerogative of granting which is nearly related to, and plainly derived srom, that other of making war ; this being indeed only an incomplete state of hostilities, and generally ending in a formal denunciation of war. These letters are grantable by the law of nations, whenever the subjects of one state are oppreffed and injured by those of another; and justice is denied by that state to which the oppreslbr belongs. In this case letters of marque and reprisal words used as synonymous ; and signify-ing, the latter a taking in return, the former the passing the frontiers in order to such taking) may be obtained, in order to seize the bodies or goods of the subjects of the offending state, until fatisfaction be made, where-ever they happen to be found. And indeed this custom of reprifals seems dictated by nature herfelf; for which reason we sind in the most ancient times very notable inftances of it. But here the necessity is obvious of calling in the fovereign power, to determine when reprifals may be made ; else every private sufferer would be a judge in his own cause. In pursuance of which principle, it is with us declared by the stat. 4 Hen. V. c. 7. that, if any subjects of the realm are oppreffed in time of truce by any foreigners, the king will grant marque in due form, to all that feel themselves grieved, which form is thus directed to be observed : the suf-ferer must first apply to the lord privy-feal, and he shall make out letters of request under the privy, seal; and if after such request of fatisfaction made, the paaty required -do not within convenient time make due fatisfaction or restitution to the party grieved, the lord-chancellor shall make him out letters of marque under the great seal ; and by virtue of these he may attack and seize the property of the aggreffor nation, without hazard of being condemned as a robber or pirate.
Reprisal, or
Recaption,
is a species of remedy al-Iowed to an injured person. This happens when any one hath deprived another of his property in goods or chattels perfonal, or wrongfully detains one’s wife, child, 
or
servant : in which case the owner of the goods, and the hushand, parent, or master, may lawfully claim and ■retake them, wherever he happens to find them ; so it be not in a riotous manner, or attended with a breach ol the peace. The reason for this is obvious ; since it may frequently happen that the owner may have this ©nly opportunity of doing himself justic? : his goods may be afterwards conveyed away or destroyed ; and his wife, children, or servants, concealed or carried out of his reach ; if he had no speedier remedy than the ordinary process of law. If therefore he can so contrive it as to gain poffession of his property again, without force or terror, the law favours and will justify his proceeding. But, as the public peace is a superior consideration to any one man’s private property ; and as, if individuals were once allowed to use private force as a remedy for private injuries, all social justice -must cease, the strong would give law to the weak, and every man would revert to a state of nature ; for these reafons it is provided, that this natural right of recaption shall never be exerted, where sueh exertion ■must occasion strife and bodily
contention,
or
endanger
the peace os fociety. If, for instance, my horse is
ta-
ken away, and I sind him in a common, a fair, or a public inn, I may lawfully seize him to my own use : but I cannot justify breaking open a private stable, or entering on the grounds of a third person, to take him, except he be feloniousiy stolen ; but must have recourse to an action at law.
REPROBATION, in theology, means the act of abandoning, or state of being abandoned, to eternal de-struction, and is applied to that decree or resolve which God has taken from all eternity to punish sinners who shall die in impenitence ; in which sense it is directly op-posed to election. When a sinner is so hardened as to feel no remorse or misgiving of conscience, it is considered as a sign of reprobation ; which by the casuists has been distinguished into pofitive and negative. The sirst is that whereby God is supposed to create men with a pofitive and absolute refolution to damn them eternally. This opinion is countenanced by St Augus-tshe and other Christian fathers, and is a peculiar tenet of Calvin and most of his followers. The church of England, in
The thirty-nine Articles,
teaches fomething like it ; and the church of Scotland, in the
Confejfion of Faith,
maintains it in the strongest terms. But the notion is generally exploded, and is believed by no rational divine in either church, being totally injurious to the justice of the Deity. Negative or conditional reprobation is that whereby God, though he has a sincere desire to save men, and furnishes them with the neceffary means, fo that all if they will may be saved, yet fees that there are many who will not be saved by the means, however powerful, that are afforded them; tho* by other means which the Deity fees, but will not afford them, they might be saved. Reprobation respects angels as well as men, and respects the latter either fallen or unfallen. See Predestination.
REPRODUCTION, is usually understood to mean the re il oration of a thing before existing, and since destroyed. It is very well known that trees and plants may be raised from Hips and cuttings ; and fome late observations have shown, that there are foιne animals which have the fame property. The polype * was the sirst instance we had ot this ; but we had scarce time to wonder at the discovery Mr Trembley had made, when Mr Bonett discovered the same property in a species of water-worm. Amongst the plants which may be raised from cuttings, there are some which seem to pυffei's this quality in so eminent a degree, that the smal-lest portion of them will become a complete tree again.
It deserves inquiry, whether or not the great Author of nature, when he ordained that certain infects, as theie polypes and worms, should resemble those plants in that particular, allovzed them this power of being re-produced in the same degree ? or, which is the Tame thing, whether this reproduction will or will not take place in whatever part the worm is cut? fn order to try this, Mr Bonett entered on a courfe of many experiments on the water-worms which have this property. These are, at their common growth, from two to three inches long, and of a brownish colour, with a cast os reddish. From one of these worms he cut off the head and tail, taking from each extremity only a small piece of a twelfth of an inch in length ; but neither of these pieces were able to reproduce what was wanting. They both perished in about 24 hours ; the tail first,
and afterwards tbe head. As to the body of the worm from which these pieces were separated, it lived as well as before, and seemed indeed to suffer nothing by the loss, the head-part being immediately used as if thfe head was thereon, boring the creature’s way into the mud. There are, besides this, two other points in which the reproduction will not take place ; the one of these is about the fifth or sixth ring from the head, and the other at the same distance from the tail ; and in all pro-bability the condition of the great artery in these parts is the cause of this.
what is said of the want of the reproductive power of these parts relates only to the head and tail ends ; for as to the body, it feels very little inconvenience from the loss of what is taken off, and very speedily reproduces those parts, where then does the principle of life reside in fuch worms, which, after having their heads cut off, will have not only the same motions, but even the inclinations, that they had before? and yet this difficulty is very small, compared to several others which at the same time offer themselves to our reason. Is this wonderful reproduction of parts only a natural conse-quence of the laws of motion ? or is there lodged in the body of the creature a chain of minute buds or shoots, a fort of little embryos, already formed and placed in £uch part3 where the reproductions are to begin ? Are thefe worms only mere machines? or are they, like more perfect animals, a fort of compound, the springs of whose motions are actuated or regulated by a fort of foul ? And if they have themselves such a principle, how is it that this principle is multiplied, and is found in every separate piece ? Is it to be granted, that there are in these worms, not a single soul (if it is to be so call-ed) in each, but that each contains as many fouls as there are pieces capable of reproducing perfect animals ? Are we to believe with Malpighi, that these forts of worms are all heart and brain from one end to the other! This may be ; but yet if we knew that it was so, we should know in reality but very little the more for knowing it: and it seems, after all, that in cases of this kind we are only to admire the works of the great Creator, and sit down in silence.
The nice sense of feeling in spiders has been much talked of by naturalifts ; but it appears that thefe worms have yet somewhat more surprising in them in regard to this particular. If a piece of stick, or any other substance, be brought near them, they do not stay tor its touching them, but begin to leap and frisk about as soon as it comes towards them. There want, however, some farther experiments to ascertain whether this be really owing to feeling or to sight ; for though we can discover no distinct organs of tight in these creatures, yet they seem affected by the light of the sun or a candle, and always frisk about it in the same manner at the approach of either ; nay, even the moon-light has some effect upon them.
A twig of willow, poplar, or many other trees, be-ιng planted in the earth, takes root, and becomes a tree, every piece of which will in the same manner pro-duce other trees. The case is the same with these worms: they are cut to pieces, and these several pieces become perfect animals ; and each of these may be again cut into a number of pieces, each of which will in the same manner produce an animal. It had been supposed by some that these worms were ovipaζous t but Mr Bo-
nett, on cutting
one
of them to pieces, having observed a siender subftance, resembling a small filament, to move at the end of one of the pieces, separated it ; and on examining it with glaffes, found it to be a perfect worm, of the same form with its parent, which lived and grew larger in a veffel of water into which he put it. These small bodies are eafily divided, and very readily complete themselves again, a day usually serving for the produc-tion of a head to the part that wants one ; and, in
general,
the smaller and ilenderer the worms are, the sooner they complete themselves after this operation, when, the bodies of the large worms are examined by the microscope, it is very easy to see the appearance of the young worms alive, and moving about within them : but it requires great precifion and exactness to be certain of this ; lince the ramifications of the great artery have very much the appearance of young worms, and they are kept in a fort of continual motion by the systolea. and diaftoles of the several portions of the artery, which serve as so many hearts. It is very certain, that what we force in regard to these animals by our operations, is done also naturally every day in the brooks and ditches where they live. A curious observer will find in these places many of them without heads or tails, and some without either; as also other fragments of various kinds, asl which are then in the act of completing them-selves : but whether accidents have reduced them to this state, or they thus purposely throw off parts of their own body for the reproduction of more animals, it is not easy to determine. They are plainly liable to many accidents, by which they lose the several parts of their body, and mnst perish very early if they had not a power of reproducing what was lost : they often are broken into two pieces, by the refistance of feme hard piece of mud which they enter ; and they are subject to a disease, a kind of gangrene, rotting off the several parts of their bodies, and mnst inevitably perish by it,.. had they not this surprifing property.
This worm was a second instance, after the polype, of the surpristng power in an animal of recovering its most effential parts when lost. But Nature does not seem to have limited her beneficence in this respect to these two creatures. Mr Bonett tried the same expe-rimeπts on another species of water-worm, differing from the former in being much.thicker. This kind of worm, when divided in the summer-season, very often shows the fame property: sor if it be cut into three or four pieces, the pieces wisl lie like dead for a long time, but afterwards will move about again ; and wisl be found iu this ftate of rest to have recovered a head, or a tail, or both·. After recovering their parts, they move very little⅝ and, according to this gentleman’s experiments, seldom slve more than a month.
it should seem, that the more difficult luccefs of this last kind of worm, after cutting, and the long time it takes to recover the lost parts, is it do recover them
at 
asl, is owing to its thickness ; fince we always find in that species of worms which succeeds best of all, that those which are thinnest always recover their parts much sooner than the others.
The water-insects also are not the only creatures which have this power of recovering their lost parts. Tlie earth affords us some already discovered to grow in this manner from their cuttings, and these not less deferring our admiration than those of the water : the
common earth-worms are of this kind. Some of these worms have been divided into two, others into three or four pieces ; and some os these pieces, after having pas-ied two or three months without any appearance of life or motion, have then begun to reproduce a head or tail or both. The reproduction of the anus, alter such a flate of rest, is no long work ; a few days do it : but it is otherwise with the head, that does not seem to per-form its functions in the divided pieces till about seven months after the separation. ' It is to be observed, that in all these operations both on earth and water-worms, the hinder part suffers greatly more than the fore part in the cutting ; for it always twills itself about
a 
long time, as is actuated by strong convulsions ; whereas the head usually crawls away without the appearance of any great uneasiness.
The reproduction of several parts of lobsters, crabs, &c. makes also one of the great curiosities in natural history. That, in lieu of an organical part of an animal broken off, another shall rife perfectly like it, may seem inconsistent with the modern system of generation, where the animal is supposed to be wholly formed in the egg. Yet has the matter of fact been well attested by the fishermen, and even by several virtuosos who have taken the point into examination, particularly M. de Reaumur and M. Perrault, whose skill and exactness in things of this nature will hardly be questioned. The legs of lobsters, &c. consist each of five articulations : now, when any of the legs happen to break by any accident, as in walking, &c. which frequently happens, the fracture is always found to be in a part near the fourth articulation ; and what they thus lose is precise-ly reproduced some time afterwards ; that is, a part of a leg shoots out, confisting of four articulations, the first whereof has two claws as before ; so that the loss is entirely repaired.
If a lobster’s leg be broken off by defign at the fourth or fifth articulation, what is thus broken off always comes again ; but it is not so if the fracture be made in the fiist, second, or third articulation. In those cafes, the reproduction is very rare if things continue as they are. But what is exceedingly surprising is, that they do not ; for, upon vifiting the lobster maimed in these barren and unhappy articulations, at the end of two or three days, all the other articulations are found broken off to the fourth ; and it is suspected they have performed the operation on themselves, to make the réproduction of a leg certain.
The part reproduced is not only perfectly like that retrenched, but also, in a certain fpace of time, grows equal to it. Hence it is that we frequently see lobsters, which have their two big legs unequal, and that in all proportions. This shows the smaller leg to be a new one.
A part thus reproduced being broken, there is a se-cond reproduction. The summer, which is the only fεafon of the year when the lobsters eat, is the most favourable time for the reproduction. It is then performed in four or five weeks; whereas it takes up eight or nine months in any other season. The small legs are sometimes reproduced, but more rarely, as well as more slowly, than the great ones : the horns do the same. The experiment is most eafily tried on the common crab. See Metaphysics, p.574. note (f) ; and Physiology, nlj
261.
REPTILL∂, in natural history, a kind of animals denominated from their creeping or advancing on the belly. Ογ reptiles are a genus of animals and infects, which, instead of feet, rest on one part of the body, while they advance forward with the rest. Such aie earthworms, snakes, caterpillars, &c. Indeed, most of the class of reptiles have feet ; only those very small, and the legs remarkably short in , proportion to the bulk of the body.
Natuiahsts obierve a world of artful contrivance for the motion of reptiles. Thus, particularly in the earth, woιm, Dr W ιllιs tells us, the whole body is only a chain of annular muscles ; or, as Dr Derham says, it is only one continued spiral muscle, the orbicular fibres where-ot being contracted, render each ring narrower and longer than before ; by which means it is enabled, like the worm of an augre, to bore its paffage into the earth. Its reptile motion might also be explained by a wire wound on a cylinder, which when Hipped off, and one end extended and held fast, will bring the other near to it. So the earthworm having shot out or extended his body (which is with a wreathing), it takes hold by thele small feet it hath, and so con-tιaCtS the hinder part of its body. Dr Tyson adds, that when the forepart of the body is itretched out, and applied to a plane at a distance, the hind part relaxing and shortening is eafily drawn towards it as a centre.
Its feet are difpofed in a quadruple row the whole length of the worm, with which, as with so many hooks, it sastens down fometimes this and sometimes that part of the body to the plane, and at the same time stretch-es out or drags after it another.
The creeping of serpents is effected after a fomewhat different manner ; there being a difference in their structure, in that these last have a campages of bones •articulated together.
I he body here is not drawn together, but as it were complicated ; part of it being applied on the rough ground, and the rest ejaculated and shot from it, which being.set on the ground in its turn, brings the other after it. I he spine of the back variously wreathed has the. same effect in leaping, as the joints in the feet of other animals they make their leaps by means of muscles, and extend the plicae or folds. See Zoology.
REPUBLIC, or commonwealth, a popular ftate or government ; or a nation where the people have the government in their own hands. See Government, Aristocracy, Democracy, and Monarchy.
Republic of Letters,
a phrase used collectively of the whole body of the ftudious and learned people.
REPUDIATION, in the civil law, the act of di-vorcing. See Divorce.
REPULSION, in phyfics, that property of bodies whereby they recede from each other, and, on certain occafions, mutually avoid coming into contact.
Repulsion, as well as attraction, has of late been confidered as one of the primary qualities of all matter, and has been much used in explaining the phenomena of nature : thus the particles of air, fire, steam, electric fluid, &c. are all said to have a repullιve power with refpect to one another.—That this is the cafe with the air, and vapour of all kinds, is certain ; becaufe when they are compreffed into
a
small space,. they expand:
.with great force : but as to fire, light, and electricity, our experiments fail; nay, the supposition of a repulstve power among the particles of the electric fluid is incon-sistent with the phenomena, as has been demonstrated under the article Electricity, Sect. V. and VI. E-ven in thofe fluids, air and steam, wherc a repulstve power most manifestly exists, it is demonstrable that the repulsion cannot be a
primary
quality, since it can be increased to a great degree by heat, and diminished by cold : but it is impossible that a
primary
quality ol matter can be increased or diminished by any external circumstances whatever; for whatever property depends upon external circumftances, is not a primary but a se-condary one.—The repulsion of electrified bodies is explained under the article Electricity : that of others ⅛ less subject to investigation ; and the most that can be said concerning it is, that in many cases it seems to ■be the consequence of a modi; cation ot dire, and in others of electricity.
REPUTATION means credit, honour, or the character of good ; and since we are destined to live in society, is necessary and useful more or less to every human being. There is no man, except one who is overgrown with pride and self-conceit, or whose actions are bad, but pays attention to his reputation, and wishes to possess the good opinion of his neighbours or the world. The love of reputation and of fame are most powerful springs of action ; but though they proceed .from the same principle, the means of attaining them, and the effects of them, are not altogether the fame.
Many means indeed serve equally to support the refutation and to increase the fame, differing only in degrees; others, however, bel-mg peculiarly either to the one -or to the other. An honest reputation is within the reach -of the bulk of mankind; it is obtained by the social virtues and the constant practice of the common duties of life. This kind of reputation indeed is neither extensive nor brilliant, but it is ften the most useful in point of happinefs. Wit, talents, and genius, are the neceffary requisttes for fame ; but those advantages are perhaps less real in their consequences than those aiding from a good reputation, what is of real use coils little ; things rare and fplendid require the greatest la-hour to procure, and yield perhaps a more ideal happiness.
Fame can be possessed, comparatively speaking, but •by few individuals ; as it requires either very superior abilities, supported by great efforts, or very fortunate circumstances. It is constituted by the applause of mankind, or at least by that of a. single nation ; whilst reputation is of much less extent, and arises from different circumftances. I hat reputation which is founded on deceit and artifice is never solid ; and the most honourable will always be found to be the most useful. Every one may safely, and indeed ought to, afpire to the consideration and praise due to his condition and merit ; bur hc who aspires to moi e, or who seeks it by dishonest means, will at length meet with contempt.
REQUEST, in law, a supplication or petition pre-ferred to a prince, or to a court of justice ; begging relief in some conscionable cafes where the common law grants no immediate redress..
Court of Rescuesrs (curia requifιtionum)
was a court
of
equity, of the same nature with the court of chancery, but inferior to it ; principally instituted for the 
relief of such petitioners as in conscionable cases addres-
sed themfelves by feιpplication to his majesty.
Οί
this court the lord privy-leal was chief judge, assisted by the masters of requests ; and it had beginning about the 9 Hen. VII. according to Sir Julius Cæfar’s tractate upon this subject : though Mr Gwγn, in his preface to his Readings, faith it began from a commission first grant-ed by king Henry VIII. - This court, having assumed great power to itfelf, so that it became burthensome, 
Mich,
anno 40 and 41
F,Hz.
in the court of common-pleas it was adjudged upon solemn argument, that the court of requests was no court of judica-ture, &c. and by flat. 16 & 17 Car I. c. 10. it was taken away.
'Γhere are still courts of requests, or courts of conscience, constituted in London and other trading and populous districts for the recovery of small debts. The first of these was established in London so early as the reign of Henry VIII. by an act of their common council ; which however was certainly insussicient sor that purpose, and illegal, till confirmed by statute 3 Jac. I. c. 15. which lias fince been explained and amended 
by statute
14 Geo II. c. 10. The constitution is this: two aldermen and four commoners fit twice a week to hear all causes os debt not exceeding the value os forty shillings ; which they examine in a summary way, by the oath os the parties or other witneffes, and make such order therein as is consonant to equity and good conscience. 1 he time and expence of obtaining this summary redress are very inconfiderable, which make it a great benefit to trade ; and thereupon divers trading towns and other districts have obtained acts os parlia-ment sor establishing in them courts os conscience upon nearly the same plan as that in the city os London.
By 25 Geo. III. c. 45. (which is confined to prose-cutions in courts os conscience in London, Middlesex, and the borough os Southwark), and by 26 Geo. III. c. 38. (which extends the provisions os the former act to all other courts instituted sor rhe recovery os small debts), , t is enacted, that after the first day os Septem-ber 1786, no person who.fcever, being a debtor or de-fendant, and who has been or shall be committed to any gaol or prifon by order os any court or commissioners authorised by any act or acts os parliament for constitu-tiπg or regulating any court or courts for the recovery ot small debts, where the debt does not exceed twenty shillings, shall be kept or continued in custody, on any pretence whatfoever, more than twenty days srom the commencement os the last mentioned act ; or srom the time os his, her, or their commitment to prifon : and where the original debt does not amount to or exceed the sum os forty shillings, more than forty days srom the commencement os the said act, or from the time of his, her, or their commitment as aforefaid ; and all gaolers are thereby required to discharge such persons accordingly. And by fect. 2. if it shall be proved to the fatisfaction of the court, that any such debtoι has money or goods which he has wilfully and fraudulently concealed ; in that case the court shall have power to enlarge the aforesaid times of imprifonment for debts un-der twenty shillings, to any time not exceeding thirty days, and for debts under forty shillings, to any time not exceeding fixty days ; which laid ground of farther detention shall be specified in the faid commitment. And that (by sect. 3.) at the expiration of the laid refpecr  ‘ tive times of imprifonment, every such person shall im
mediately be dis¢harged, without paying any sum of
money, or other reward or gratuity whatsoever, to the gaoler of such gaol on any pretence whatsoever ; and every gaoler demanding or receiving any fee for the discharge of any such person, or keeping any fuch person prisoner after the said refpective times limited by the said act, shall forfeit five pounds, to be recovered in a summary way before two justices of the peace, onc moiety thereof to be paid to the overseers of the poor of the parish where the offence shall be committed, and the other to the informer.
REQUIEM, in the Romish history, a mass sung for the rest of the foul of a person deceased.
RESCISSION, in the civil law, an action intended for the annulling or fetting aside any contract, deed, &c.
RESCRIPT, an answer delivered by an emperor, or a pope, when consulted by particular persons on some difficult question or point of law, to serve as a decision thereof.
RESEDA, dyer’s-weed,
Tel low-wee cl, Weld,
or
Wild-w∏ad :
A genus of the order oftrigynia, belonging to the dodecandria clafs of plants ; and in the natural method- ranking' under the 54th order,
Mi(celhιne<e, 
The-calyx is monophy!lous and partite ; the petals lan-ciniated ; the capfule unilocular, and opening at the mouth. There are 11 species ; of which the most remarkable is the hιteola or common dyer’s weed, growing naturally in waste places in many parts of Britain. The young leaves are often undulated ; the stalk is a-yard high, or more, terminated with along naked spike of yellowish-green flowers : the plant is cultivated and much uied for dying lilk and wool of a yellow colour. The great recommendation of the plant is, that it will grow with very little trouble, without dung, and on the very worst foils. For this reason it is commonly sown with, or immediately after, barley or oats, without any additional care, except drawing a bush over it to harrow it in. The reaping of the corn does it little or no hurt, as it grows but little the first year ; and the next summer it is pulled and dried like flax. Much care and nicety, however, is requiiite, so as not to injure either the feed or stalk; or, which sometimes happens, damaging both, by letting it stand too long, or pulling it too green. To avoid these inconveniences, a better method of culture has been devised. This new method is to plough and harrow the ground very fine,, without dung, as equally as possible, and then sowing about a gallon of seed, which is very small, upon an acre, some time in the month of August. In about two months it vzill be high enough to hoe, which must be carefully done, and the plants left about fix inches asunder. Tn March it is to be hoed again, and this labour is to be repeated a third time in May. About the close of June, when the flower is in full vigour, and the stalk is become of a greenish-yellow, it should be pulled ; a sufficient quantity of stems being left growing for seed till September. By this, means the flower and stalk, both of them being carefully dried, will lell at a good price to tlie dyers, who employ it constantly, and in large quantities ; add to this, tirat the seed being ripe and in perfect order, will yield a very confiderable profit. In
a
tolerable year, when the seasons have not been unfavourable, the advantages derived from this vegetable will answer very well ; but if the summer should be remarkably fine, 
and
proper
care is taken in getting it in, there
will
be 
a very large produce upon an acre. The crop being, as has been shown, so early removed, the ground may be conveniently prepared for growing wheat the next year. Upon the whole, weld is in its nature a very valuable commodity in many respects, as it serves e-qually for woollen, linen, or filk ; dyeing not only a rich and lasting yellow, but also, properly managed, all the different shades of yellow with brightness and beauty ; and if these be previously dipped blue, they are by the weld changed into a very pleafing green, which our artists can also diverfify into a great variety of shades.
RESEMBLANCE, ««//Dissimilitude, the rela-tions of likeness and difference among objects. See Comparison.
The connection that man hath with the beings around him, requires some acquaintance with their nature, their powers, and their qualities, for regulating his conduct. For acquiring a branch of knowledge so effential to our well-being, motives alone of reason and interest are not sussicient : nature hath providentially superadded curio-sity, a vigorous propensity, which never is at rest. This propenfity alone attaches ns to every new object -j- ; and incites us to compare objects, in order to difcover their differences and resemblances.
Resemblance among objects of the same kind, and dissimilitude among objects of different kinds, are too obvious and familiar to gratify our curiofity in any de-gree : its· gratification lies in discovering differences among things where resemblance prevails, and resem-blances where difference prevails. Thus a difference, in individuals of the same kind of plants or animals, is deemed a discovery, while the many particulars in which they agree are neglected ; and in different kinds, any resemblance is greedily remarked, without attending to the many particulars in which they differ,.
A comparison of the former neither tends to gratify our curiofity, nor to sct the objects compared in a stronger light : two apartments in. a palace, fimilar in shape, fize, and furniture, make feparately as good a figure as when compared ; and the lame observation is applicable to, two fimilar compartments in a garden ; on the other hand, oppose a regular building to a fall of water, or a good picture to.a towering hill, or even a little dog to a large horse, and the contrast will produce no effect. But a resemblance between objects of different kinds, and a difference between objects of' the same kind, have remarkably an enlivening effect. Thc poets, filch of them as have a juft taste, draw all their stmilies from things that in the main differ widely from the principal subject ; and they never attempt a contrast, but where the things have a common ge-nus, and a resemblance in the capital circumstances : place together a large and a small-sized animal of the fame species, the one will appear greater, the other less, than when viewed feparately : when we oppose beauty to deformity, each makes a greater figure by the comparison. λVe compare the drefs of different nations with curiofity, but without surprise because, they have no such refemblance in · the capital'parts as to please us. by contrasting the fmaller parts. But a new cut of a ∩eeve, or of a pocket, enchants by its novelty ; and, in opposition to the former fashion, raises some degree of surprise.
That resemblance and dissimilitude have an enliven-
ing effect upon objects of sight, is made sufficiently evident ; and that they have the same effect upon objects of the other senses, is also certain. Nor is that law confined to the external senses ; sor characters contrasted make a greater figure by the opposition : Iago, in the tragedy of othello, says,
He hath a daily beauty in his life That makes me ugly.
The character of a fop, and of a rough warrior, are nowhere more successfully contrasted than in J3hake-speare :
Hotspur.
My liege, I did deny no prifoners :
But I remember, when the sight was done, . when I was dry with rage, and extreme toil,
Breathless and faint, leaning upon my sword,
Came there a certain lord, neat, trimly dress’d,
Fresh as a bridegroom ; and his chin, new-reap’d, Show’d like a stubble-land at harvest-home.
He was perfumed like a milliner ;
And stwixt his finger and his thumb he held
A pouncet-box, which ever and anon
He gave his nose :—-and still he smil d and talk d ;
And as the soldiers bare dead bodies by,
He call’d them untaught knaves, unmannerly,
To bring a siovenly, unhandfome corse Betwixt the wind and his nobility, with many holiday and lady terms He question’d me : among the rest, demanded My pris’ners, in your majesty’s behalf.
I
then, asl smarting with my wounds ; being gall’d To be so pester’d with a popinjay,
Dut of my grief, and my impatience,
Answer’d, negle<⅛ngly, I know not v⅛hat :
He should,· or should not ; for hé made me mad,
To see him shine so brisk, and smell fo sweet,
And talk so like a waiting gentlewoman,
ΟΙ' guns, and drums, and wounds, ( God save the mark! ) And telling me, the sovereign’st thing on earth was parmacity for an inward bruise ;
And that it was great pity, so it vvas,
This villanous saltpetre should be digg’d out of the bowels of the harmless earth, which many a good, tall fellow had destroy’d So cowardly : and but for these vile guns,
He would hrnself have been a soldier.·--
Firβ part, Henry
IV.
act
t.
sc.
4
Passions and emotions are also ensiamed by comparison. A man of high rank humbles the bystanders even to annihilate them in their own opinion : Cæfar, beholding the statue of Alexander, was greatly mortified, that now, at the age of 32, when Alexander died, he had not performed one memorable action.
Ο11Γ opinions also are much influenced by companion. A man whose opulence exceeds the ordinary standard is reputed richer than he is in reality ; and wisdom or weakness, if at all remarkable in an individual, is generally carried beyond the truth.
The opinion a man forms of his present distreis is heightened by contrasting it with his former happi-ness :
______Could I forget
what I have been, I might the better bear IVhat Γm destin’d to. Γm not the sirst
That have been wretched : but to think how much I have been happier.
Southern’s Innocent Adultery, act
2.
The distress of a long journey makes even an indifferent inn agreeable : and, in travelling, when the road is good, and the horseman well covered, a bad day may be agreeable, by making him sensible bow fnug he is.
The same effect is equally remarkable, when a man opposes his condition to that of others. A ship tos-sed about in a storm, makes the spectator reflect upon his own ease and security, and puts these in the strong-est light.
A man in grief cannot bear mirth ; it gives him a more lively notion of his unhappiness, and of course makes him more unhappy. Satan, contemplating the heauties of the terrestrial paradise, has the following exclamation :
with what delight could I have walk’d thee round,
If I could joy in ought, swect interchange Οί hill and valley, rivers, woods, and plains,
Now land, now fea, and shores with forest crown’d, Rocks, dcns, and caves ! but I in none of these Find place or refuge ; and the more I see Pleasures about me, so much more I feel Torment within me, as from the hateful stege Qf contraries : all good to me becomes Bane, and in heav’n much worse would be my state.
Paradise Loβ, book
9. ∕. 114,
The appearance of danger gives sometimes pleafure, sometimes pain. A timorous person upon the battlements of a high tower, is seized with fear, which even the consciousnefs of security cannot diffipate. But upon one of a firm head, this situation has a contrary effect : the appearance of danger heightens, by opposition, thc consciousnefs of security, and consequently the fatisfaction that arises from security ; here the feeling resem-bles that above-mentioned, occasioned by a ship labouring in a storm.
The effect of magnifying or lessening objects by means os comparison is to be attributed to the in-stuence of passion over our opinions. This will evidently appear by reflecting in what manner a spectator is affected, when a very large animal is for the first time pla-ced befide a very small one of the same species. The strst thing that strikes the mind is the difference between the two animals, which is so great as to occasion surprise ; and this, like other emotions, magnifying its object, makes ns conceive the difference to be the greatest that can be : we see, or seem to see, the one animal extremely little, and the other extremely large. The emotion of surprise arising from any unusual resemblance, serves equally to explain, why at sirst view we are apt to think fuch resemblance more entire than it is in reality. And it must be observed, that the circumstances of more and lefs, which are the proper subjects of comparison, raife a perception so indistinct and vague as to facilitate the
effect
defcribed ; we have no mental standard of great and little, nor of the feveral degrees of any attribute ; and the mind, thus· unrestrained, is naturally disposed to indulge its furprife to the utmost extent.
In exploring the operations of the mind, some of which are extremely nice and slippery, it is ncceffary
to proceed with the
utmost circumfpection : and after all, seldom it happens that speculations of that kind afford any fatisfaction. Luckily, in the present case, our speculations are supported by facts and solid argument. First, a -small object of one species opposed to 
a
great object of another, produces not, in any degree, that deception which is so remarkable when both ob-jects are of the same species. The greatest disparity between objects of different kinds, is so common as to be obferved with perfect indifference ; but such dispa-rity between the objects of the fame kind being uncommon, never fails to produce surprise : and may we not fairly conclude, that surprise, in the latter case, is what occafions the deception, when we sind no deception in the former ? In the npxt place, if surprise be the sole cause of the deception, it follows neceffarily that the deception will vanish as soon as the objects compared become familiar. This holds so unerringly, as to leave no reasonable doubt that surprise is the prime mover: our surprise is great, the sirst time a small lapdog is seen with a large mastiff ; but when two such animals are constantly together, there is no furprife, and it makes no difference whether they be viewed feparately or in company. We set no bounds to the riches of- a man who has recently made his fortune ; the surprising disproportion between his present and his past situation being carried to an extreme : but with regard to a family that for many generations hath enjoyed great wealth, the same false reckoning is not made. It is equally remarkable, that a trite simile has no effect : a lover compared to a moth scorching itfelf at the flame of a candle, originally a sprightly simile, has by frequent ule loft all force ; love cannot now be compared to sire, without some degree of disguft. It has been juftly observed againft Homer, that the lion is too often introduced into his similes ; all the variety he is able to throw into them not being sufficient to keep alive the reader’s surprise.
To explain the influence of comparison upon the mind, we have chosen the simpleft case, viz. the sirst sight of two animals of the fame kind, differing in size only ; but to complete the theory, other circumstances must be taken in. And the next supposition we make, is where both animals, feparately familiar to the spectator, are brought together for the sirst time. In that cafe, the effect of magnifying and dimiiiistsing is found remarkably greater than in that sirst mentioned ; and the reason will appear upon analysing the operation.; the strft feeling we have is of surprise at the uncommon difference of two creatures of the same species ; we are next senfible, that the one appears less, the other larger, than they did formerly ; and that new circumstance increasingour surprise, makes us imagine 
a
still greater opposition between the animals, than if we had formed no notion of them beforehand.
Let us make one other supposition, that the spectator was acquainted beforehand with one of the animals only ; the lapdog, for example. This new circumstance will vary the effect ; for, instead of widening the natural difference, by enlarging in appearance the one animal, and diminifhing the other in proportion, the whole apparent alteration will reft upon the lapdog : the surprise to sind it less than it appeared formerly, directs to it our whole attention, and makes us conceive it to be a most diminutive creature : the mastiff
in the mean time is quite overlooked. To
illustrate
this effect by a familiar example. Take a piece of pa-per or of linen tolerably white, and compare it with
a 
pure white of thc same kind : the judgment we formed of the sirst object is instantly varied ; and the surprise occafioned by finding it less white than was thought, produceth a hasty conviction that it is much less white than it is in reality : withdrawing now the pure white, and putting in its place a deep black, the furprise occasioned by that new circumstance carries us to the other extreme, and makes us conceive the object sirst mentioned to be a pure white : and thus experience compels us to acknowledge, that our emotions have an influence even upon our eye-light. 1 his experiment leads to a general observation, that whatever is found more strange and beautiful than was expected, is judged to be more strange and beautiful than it is in reality. Hence a common artifice, to depreciate beforehand what we wiih to make a figure in the opinion of others.
The companions employed by poets and orators are of the kind last mentioned; for it is always a known object that is to be magnified or lefleπed∙ The former is effected by likening it to some grand object, or by contrafting it with one of an opposite character.
To 
effectuate the. latter, the method must be reverfed ⅛ the object must be contrasted with fomething superior to it, or likened to something inferior. The whole effect is produced upon the principal object ; which by that means is elevated above its rank, or depreffed below it.
In accounting for the effect that any unufual resemblance or diffimilstude hath upon the mind, no canse has been mentioned but surprise ; and to prevent confusion, it was proper to discuss that caufe sirst. But surprise is not the only cause of the effect described ; another occurs, which operates perhaps not less powerfully, viz. a principle in human nature that lies still in obscurity, not having been unfolded by any writer, , though its effects are extensive : and as it is not distinguished by a proper name, the reader must be satissied with the following description. Every man who stu-dies himself or others, must be sensible of a tendency or propensity in the mind to complete every work that is begun, and to carry things to their full perfection. There is little opportunity to display that propensity upon natural operations, which are seldom left imperfect ; but in the operations of art it hath great scope : it impels us to persevere in our own work, and to wisli for the completion of what another is doing : we feel a sensible pleasure when the work is brought to perfection ; and our pain is not less fensible when we are difappointed. Hence our uneasiness when an interesting story is broke off in the middle, when a piece of music ends without a close, or when a building or garden is left unsiniihed. The same propensity operates in making collections ; such as the whole works, good and bad, os any author. A certain person attempted to collect prints of all the capital paintings, and fuc-ceeded except as to a few. La Bruyere remarks, that an anxious search was made for these ; not for their value, but to complete the set.
The final cause of the propensity is an additional proof of its existence. Human works are of no signi-sicancy till they be completed ; and reason is not always 
a sufficient counterbalance to indolence : some prin-
ciple over and above is neceffary to excite our industry, and to prevent our stopping short in the middle of the course.
V7e need not lose time to defcribe the co-operation of the foregoing propensity with snrprise, in producing the effect that follows any unusual resemblance or dis-similitude. Surprise first operates, and carries our opinion of the resemblance or dissimilitude beyond truth. The propenfity we have been describing carries us still farther ; for i.t forces upon the mind a conviction, that the resemblance or dissimilitude is complete. λVe need no better illustration, than the resemblance that is fancied in some pebbles to a tree or an infect ; which resemblance, however faint in reality, is conceived to be wonderfully perfect. The tendency to complete a resemblance acting jointly with surprise, carries the mind sometimes so far, as even to presume upon future events. In the Greek tragedy entitled
Phimides,
those unhappy women feeing the place where it was intended they fhould be slain, cried out with anguish, " They now faw their cruel destiny bad condemned them to die in that place, being the fame where they had been expo-fed in their infancy.”
The propenfity to advance every thing to its perfection, not only co-operates with surprise to deceive the mind, but of itself is able to produce that effect, of this we see many iustances where there is no place for surprise ; and the first we shall give is of resem-blance.
Unumquodque eodem modo dijsolvitur quo colh-gatum eβ,
is a maxim in the Roman law that has no foundation in truth ; for tying and loôfing, building and demolishshg, are acts oppofite to each other, and are performed by oppofite means : but when tbese acts are connected by their relation to the fame subject, their connection leads us to imagine a fort of resem-blance between them, which by tbe foregoing propen-sity is conceived to be as complete as possible. The next instance shall be of contrast. Addison obferves, " That the palest features look the most agreeable in white ; that a face which is oveistushed appears to advantage in the deepest scarlet ; and that a dark complexion is not a little alleviated by a black hood.” The foregoing propenfity serves to account for these appearances ; to make this evident, one of the cases shall sussice. A complexion, however dark, never ap-proaches to black : when thefe colours appear together, their oppofition strikes us; and the. propenfity we have to complete the oppofition, makes the dark-ness of complexion vanish out of fight.
The operation of this propenfity, even where there ' is no ground for furprise, is not confined to opinion or conviction : fo powerful it is, as to make us fometimes proceed to action, in orde¢ to complete a resemblance or dissimilitude. If this appear obscure, it will be made clear by the following instance. Upon what principle is the
lex talionis
founded, other than to make the punishment referable the mischief? Reafon dic-tates, that there ought to be a conformity or refem-blance between a crime and its punishment ; and the foregoing propenfity impels us to make the resemblance as complete as possible. Titus Livshs J∣, under the influence of that propenfity, accounts for a certain punishment by a resemblance between it and the crime, too subtile for common apprehcnsion. Speaking of
Mettus Fuffetius, the Alban general, who, for treachery to the Romans his alliés, was sentenced to be torn to pieces by horses, he puts the following speech in the mouth of Tullus Hostilius, who decreed the punishment.
" Mette Fuffeû, inquit, si ipse dijeere pr ffβs ~, fidem ac fœdera servare, vivo tibi ea disciplina a me adhibita effet. Nunc, quoniam tuum infanabile ingenium eβ, at tu tno fupplicio doce humanum genus ea fan id a credere, qux a te violata sunt. Ut igitur paulo ante animum inter Fi-denatem Romanamque rem ancipιtem geβffβi, itajam corpus -paffim d'βrahendum dabis.”
By the same influence, the sentence is often executed upon the very fpot where the crime was committed. In the
Plectra
of Sophocles, Egistheus is dragged from the theatre into an inner room of the suppofed palace, to fuffer death where he murdered Agamemnon. Shakespeare, whose knowledge of nature is not less profound than extenfive, has not overlooked this propenfity :
" Othello.
Get me some poison, Iago, this night. I’ll not expostulate with her, lest her body and her beauty unprovide my mind again. This night, Iago.”
" Iago.
Do it not with poison ; strangle her in her bed, even in the bed she hath contaminated.”
“ Othello.
Good, good : the justice of it pleafes : very good.”    
Othello, act At ∙fc∙ ξ.
Persons in their last moments are generally seized with an anxiety to be buried with their relations. In the 
Amynta
of Taffo, the lover, hearing that his mistress was torn to pieces by a wolf, expreffes a desire to die tbe same death.
Upon the subject in general we have two remarks to add. Tlie first. concerns resemblance, which, when too entire, hath no effect, however different in kind the things compared may be. The remark is applicable to works of art only ; for natural objects of different kinds have scarce ever an entire resemblance. To give an example in a work of art : Marble is a fort of matter very different srom what composes an animal ; and marble cut into a human figure, produces great plea-sure by the resemblance : but if a marble statue be co-loured like a picture, the resemblance is so entire as at a diftance to make the statue appear a real person : we discover the mistake when we approach ; and no other emotion is raised, but surprise occasioned by thc de-ception : the figure still appears a real person, rather than an imitation ; and we must use reflection to correct the mistake. This cannot happen in a picture ; for the resemblance can never be so entire as to disguise the imitation.
The other remark belongs to contrast. Emotion3 make the greatest figure when contrasted in succession ; but then the succession ought neither to be rapid, nor immoderately flow : if too flow, the effect of contrast becomes faint by the distance of the emotions ; and if rapid, no stngle emotion has room to expand itself to . its full fize, but is stisted, as it were, in the birth by a succeeding emotion. The funeral oration of the bishop of Meux upon the duchess of Qrleans, is a perfect hodge-podge of cheerful and melancholy reprefeπ-tations, following each other in the quickest succession : oppofite emotions are belt felt in succession ; but each emotion feparately ssiould be raised to its due pitch, before another be introduced..
what
is above laid down, will enable us to deter-miiie a very important queftion concerning emotions raised by the fine arts, viz. whether ought similar emotions to succeed each other, or dissimilar ? The emotions raised by the fine arts are for the moft part too nearly related to make a figure by resemblance ; and for that reafon their fuccession ought to be regu-latcd as much as possible by contrail. This holds confcffedly in epic and dramatic compositions ; and the belt writers, led perhaps by taste more than by rea-foning, have generally aimed at that "beauty. It holds equally in music : in the same cantata all the variety of emotions that are within the power of music, may not only be indulged, but, to make the greatest figure, ought to be contrasted. In gardening, there is an ad-ditional reason for the rule : the emotions raised by that art, are at best so faint, that every artifice sirould be employed to give them their utmost vigour : a field may be laid out in grand, sweet, gay, neat, wild, melancholy scenes ; and when these are viewed in succes
sion, grandeur ought to be contrasted with neatnefs, regularity with wildness, and gaiety with melancholy, so as that each emotion may fucceed its opposite : nay, it is an improvement to intermix in the fuccession rude uncultivated spots as well as unbounded views, which in themselves are disagreeable, but in succession heighten the feeling of the agreeable object ; and we have nature for our guide, which in her most beautiful landscapes often intermixes rugged rocks, dirty marsties, and barren stony heaths. The greatest masters of mu-sic have the same view in their compositions : the fecond part of an Italian song seldom conveys any sentiment : and, by lts harshness, seems purposely contrived to give a greater relisli for the interefting parts of the composition.
A small garden, comprehended under a fingle view, affords little opportunity for that embellishment. Dissi-milar emotions require different tones of mind ; and therefore in conjunction can never be pleasant : gai-ety and sweetness may be combined, or wildness and gloominess ; but a composition of gaiety and gloomi-ness is distastesul. The rude uncultivated compartment of furze and broom in Richmond garden, hath a good effect in the fuccession of objects ; but a spot of that nature would be insufferable in the midst of a polished parterre or flower-plot. A garden, therefore, if not of great extent, admits not dissimilar emotions ; and in ornamenting a small garden, the safest course is to confine it to a single expression. For the same reafon, a landscape ought also to be confined to a fingle ex-pression ; and accordingly it is a rule in painting, that if the subject be gay, every figure ought to contribute to that emotion.
It follows from the foregoing train of reasoning, that a garden near a great city ought to have an air of solitude. The folitariness, again, of a waste country ought to be contrasted in forming a garden ; no temples, no obfcure walks ; but
jets d’eau,
cascades, objects active, gay, and splendid.. Nay, fuch a gat den should in some measure avoid imitating nature, by taking on an ex-traordshary appearance of regularity and art, to show the busy hand of man, which in a waste country has a fine effect by contrast.
wit and ridicule make not an agreeable mixture
with grandeur, Dissimilar emotions have a fine effect in a flow succession ; but in a rapid succession, which approaches to co-existence, they will not be relished. In the midst of a laboured and elevated description of battle, virgil introduces a ludicrous image, which is certainly out of its pla"ce :
obvius ambustum torrem Chorinæus ab ara Corripit, ct veπienti Ebυfo plagamque ferenti occupai os fiammis : illi ingens barba relûxit, Nidoremque ambusta dédit.    
'Æn.
xii. 298,
E quai tauro ferito, il fuo dolore verfo mugghiando e fofpirando fuore.
GierufaI
cant. 4. st. 1. It would however be too austere to banish altogether ludicrous images from an epic poem. This poem doth not always soar above the clouds : it admits great variety ; and upon occafion can descertd even to the ground without finking. In its more familiar tones,
a 
ludicrous scene may be introduced without impropriety. This is done by virgil * in a foot-race : the cir
cumstances of which, not excepting the ludicroιis part, are copied from Homer f. After a fit of merriment, we are, it is true, the less difposed to the ferious and fublime : but then, a ludicrous scene, by unbending the mind from severe application to more interesting subjects, may prevent fatigue, and preserve our relisli entire.
RESEN, (Moses) ; a town on the Tigris, built by Nimrod ; thought to be the
Larijsa
of Xenophon ; which see. But as
Larijsa
is a name in imitation of a Greek city ; and as there were no Greek cities, con-sequently no
Larijsa
in Affyria, before Alexander the Great ; it is probable that the Greeks asking of what city those were the ruins they saw, the Affyrians might answer,
Laresen,
“ Οί
Resen ;”
which word Xenophon expreffed by
Larssa,
a more familiar found to a Greek ear, (wells).
RESENTMENT, means a strong perception of good or ill, generally a deep sense of injury, and may be distinguished into
anger
and
revenge,
" By anger (says Archdeacon Paley), I mean the pain we suffer upon the receipt of an injury or affront, with the usual effects of that pain upon ourselves. By revenge, the inflicting of pain upon the perfon who has injured or offended us, farther than the just ends of punishment or reparation require. Anger prompts to revenge ; but it is possible to suspend the effect when we cannot altogether quell the principle, we are bound alfo to endeavour to qualify and correct the principle itfelf. So that our duty requires two different applications of thc mind : and for that reason anger and revenge ihould bc confidered feparately.” See Revenge.
RESERVATION, in law, an action or clause whereby fomething is reserved, or secured to one’s felf.
Mental Reservation,
a proposition which, strictly taken, and according to the natural import os the terms, is false ; but, if qualified by fomething concealed in the mind, becomes true.
Mental reservations are the great refuge of religious hypocrites, who use them to accommodate their confidences with their intereste : the Jesuits are zealous ad-vocates for mental reservations ; yet are they real lies, as including an intention to deceive.
RESERVE,
in lav/, the fame with yeservation, See Re
SS.K.VAT1ON.
Body of
Reserve,
or Corps de
Reserve,
in military affairs, the third or last line of an army, drawn up for battle; so called becauie they are reserved to sustain the rest as occaston requires, and not to engage but in cafe of necessity.
RESERVOIR, a place where water is collected and reserved, in order to be conveyed to distant places through pipes, or fupply a fountain or jet d’eau.
RESET, in law, the receiving or harbouring an outlawed person. See outlawry.
Reset
of Thtfi,
in Scots law. See
Law,
m> clxxxvi. 2 9∙
RESIDENCE, in the canon and common law, the abode of a person or incumbent upon his benefice ; and his assiduity in attending on the fame.
RESIDENT, a public minister, who manages the affairs of a kingdom or state, at a foreign court.
They are a class of public ministers inferior to arn-baffadυrs or envoys ; but, like them, are under the protection of the law of nations.
R.ES IDUE, the remainder or balance of an account, debt, or obligation.
RESIGNATION, ill general, signisies the implicit submission of ourselves, or of something we poffess,. to the will of another. In a religious sense it signifies a perfect submission, without difcontent, to the will of God. See Moral Philosophy, n0 119.
RESIN, in natural history, a viscidjuice oozing either spontaneousiy, or by incision, from several trees, as the pine, fir, &c.— Â premium for several years has been offered by the London Society for Encouraging Arts, &c. for difcovering a mode of reducing the inflammable quality of refin, so as to adapt it to the purpofes of making candles; but no such discovery has yet been madc.
Rlaftic
Resin.
See Caoutchouc.
Gum Resin,
a mixture of gum and refin. See Phar∙ Macy, n0 38.
Red Gum
Resin,
is procured from the red gum tree, or eucalyptus refinifera ; a tree so large and lofty as to exceed in fize the Engliih oak. The wood of the tree is brittle, and of little use but for firewood, from the large quantity of refinous gum it contains. The tree is distinguished by having pedunculated flowers, and an acute or pointed conical calyptra. To obtain the juice from this tree incitions are made in the trunk of it, and sometimes upwards os 60 gallons of red refinous juice have been obtained from one of them. " when this juice is dried, it becomes a very powerful astringent gum-refin, of a red colour, much reserabling that known in the shops by the name of
kino,
and, for all medical purposes, fully as efficacious. Mr white ad-ministered it to
a
great number of patients in the dy-sentery, which prevailed much soon after the landing ©f the convicts, and in no one instance found it to fail. This gum-refin diffolves almost entirely in spirit of wine, to which it gives a blood-red tincture, water distblves about one fixth part only, and the watery folu-tion is cf a bright red. Both these solutions are powerfully astringent.”
Fellow Gum
Resin,
is procured from the yellow re-sin tree, which is as large as the English walnut tree. The properties of this r.efin are equal to those of the
most fragrant balsams. It exudes from
the bark speri-
taneously, but more readily if incitions are made. The colour of it is yellow, and at first it is stuid ; but after being inspiffated in the sun, it becomes solid. When burnt on hot coals, it smells like a mixture of balsam of Tolu and benzoin, approaching somewhat to storax.
" It is perfectly soluble in spirit of wine, but not in water, nor even in effential oil of turpentine, unlels it be digested in a strong heat. The varnish which it makes with either is very weak, and of little use. with re-fpect to its medicinal qualities, Mr white has found, it, in many cases, a good pectoral medicine, and very balfamιc. It is not obtainable in io great abundance as the red gum produced by the eucalyptus refinifera. The plant which produces the yellow gum seems to be perfectly unknown to botanists, but Mr white has communicated no specimens by which its genus or even class could be determined.”
RESINOUS electricity, is that kind of electricity which is produced by exciting bodies of the re-iinous kind, and which is generally negative. See
E-
LECTRicιτγ
pa/Jim.
RESISTANCE, or
Resisting
Force,
in philosophy, denotes, in general,- any power which acts in an oppofite direction to another, so as to destroy or diminish its effect. See Mechanics, Hydrostatics, and Pneumatics.
Gf all the refistances of bodies to each, there is undoubtedly noue of greater importance than the refistance or reaction of fluids. It is here that we must look for a theory of naval architecture,, for the impulse of the air is our moving power, and this must be modified so as to produce every motion we want by the form and dispofition of our fails ; and it is the refistance of the water which must be overcome, that the ship may proceed in her course ; and this must also be modified to our purpose, that the ship may not drive like a log to leeward, but on ∣he contrary may ply to windward, that she may answer her helm briskly, and that she may be easy in all her motions on the surface of the troubled ocean. The im-pulse of wind and water makes them ready and inde-fatigable servants in a thousand shapes for driving our machines ; and we should lofe much of their service did we remain ignorant of the laws of their action : they would sometimes become terrible masters, if we did not fall upon methods of eluding or softening their attacks.
we cannot refuse the ancients a confiderable knowledge of this snbject. It was equally interesting to them as to us ; and we cannot read the accounts of the naval exertions of Phoenicia, Carthage, and of Rome, exertions which have not been surpaffed hy any thing of modern date, without believing that they poffeffed much practical and experimental knowledge of this subject. It was not, perhaps, poffeffed by them in a strict and syftematic form, as it is now taught by our mathema-ticians; but the master-builders, in their dockyards, did undoubtedly exercise their genius in comparing the forms of their stnest ships, and in. marking those circumstances of form and dimenston which were
in fa£t 
accompanied with the desirable properties of a ship, and thus framing to themselves maxims of naval architecture in the fame xnanncr as we do now. For we
peheve that eur
naval architects are
not
diflposed to grant that they have profited much by all the labours of the mathematicians. But the ancients had not made any great progress in the physicomathematical sciences, which consist chiefly in thc application of calculus to the phenomena of nature. In this branch they could make none, becaufe they had not the means of investigation. A knowledge of the motions and actions of fluids is accessible only to those who are familiarly acquainted with the fluχionary mathematics; and with-out this key there is no admittance. Even when pof
feffed
of this guide, our progress has been very flow, hesitating, and devious ; and we have not yet been able to establisti any set of doctrines which are susceptible of an eafy and confident application to the arts of life. If we have advanced farther than the ancients, it is because we have come after them, and have prosited by their labours, and even by their mistakes.
Sir Ifaac Newton was the first (as far as we can recollect) who attempted to make the motions and ac-tions of fluids the subject of mathematical discussion. Ηe had invented the method of fluxions long before he engaged in his phyfical researches ; and he proceeded in these
sua mαthfi facem pr¢serente.
Yet even with this guide he was often obliged to grope his way, and to try various bye-paths, in the hopes of obtaining 
a
legitimate theory. Having exerted all his powers in establishing a theory of the lunar motions, he was obliged to rest contented with an approximation instead os a perfect folution of the problem which ascer-tains the motions of three bodies mutually acting on each other. This convinced him that it was in vain to expect an accurate investigation of the motions and actions of fluids, where millions of unfeen particles combine their influence. He therefore cast about to sind some particular case of the problem which would admit of an accurate determination, and at the same time furnish circumftances of analogy or resemblance sussiciently numerous for giving limiting cases, which should include between them those other cases that did not admit of this accurate investigation. And thus, by knowing the limit to which the cafe proposed did approximate, and the circumstance which regulated the approximation, many useful propositions might be deduced for directing us in the application of these doc-trines to the arts of life.
He therefore figured to himself a hypothetical collection of matter which poffeffed the characteristic pro-perty of fluidity, viz. the
quaqudverfum
propagation of preffure, and the most perfect intermobility (pardon the uncouth term) of parts, and which formed a phy. sical whole or aggregate, whose parts were connected by mechanical forces, determined both in degree and in direction, and such as rendered the determination of certain important circumstances of their motion susceptible of precise investigation. And he conςluded, that the laws which he should difcover in these motions must have a great analogy with the laws of the motions of real fluids : And from this hypothesis he deduced a se-rιes of propoiitions, which form the basis of almost all the theories of the impulfe and resiftance of fluids which have been offered to the public since his time.
It must be acknowledged, that the results of this theory agree but ill with experiment, and that,
in the way in which it has been zealously proj'ecuted by subsequent mathematicians,
it proceeds on principles or assumptions which are not only gratuitous, but even false. But it affords such a beautiful appl ication of geometry and calculus, that mathematicians have been as it were faf-cinated by it, and have published systems so elegant and so extensively applicable, that one cannot help lamenting that the foundation is so flimsy. John Bernoulli’s theory, in his differtation on the
communica-
' tion of motion, and Bouguer’s in his
Traité du Navire, 
and in his
Theoriedu Manœuvre et delà Mâture des kr aif-feau ∖,
must ever be considered as among the finest specimens of physicomathematical science which the world has seen. And, with all its imperfections, this theory still furnishes (as w’as expected by its illustrious author) many propositions of immenfe practical use, they being the limits to which the real phenomena of the impulse and refistance of fluids really approximate. So that when the law by which th'e phenomena deviate from the theory is once determined by a well chosen series of experiments, this hypothetical theory becomes almost as valuable as a true one. And we may add, that although Mr d’Alembert, by treading warily in the steps oi Sir lsaac Newton in another route, has discovered a genuine and unexceptionable theory, the process of investigation is so intricate, requiring every fineffe of the most abstruse analyfis, and the final equations aie so complicated, that even their most expert author has not been able to deduce more than one-fimple propofition (which too was discovered by Daniel Bernoulli by a more fimple process) which can be applied to any use. The hypothetical theory of Newton, therefore, continues to be the groundwork of all our practical knowledge of the subject.
we shall therefore lay before our readers a very short view of the theory, and the manner of applying it. we ihall then show its defects (all of which were pointed out by its great author), and give an historical account of the many attempts which have been made to amend it or to substitute another: in all which we think it our duty to show, that Sir Isaac Newton took the lead, and pointed out every path which others have taken, if we except Daniel Bernoulli and d’Alembert ; and we shall give an account of the chief sets of experiments which’ have been made on this important subject, in the hopes of establishing an empirical theory, which may be employed with confidence in the arts of life.
we know by experience that force must be applied to a body in order that it may move through a fluid, such as air or water ; and that a body projected with any velocity is gradually retarded in its motion, and generally brought to rest. The analogy of nature makes us imagine that there is a force acting in the oppofite direction, or oppofing the motion, and that this force relides in, or is exerted by, the fluid. And the phenomena referable those which accompany the known refistance of active beings, such as animals. Therefore we give to this supposed force the metaphorical name of Resistance, , we alsh know that a fluid in-motion will hurry a solid body along with the stream, and that it requires force to maintain it in its place. A fimilar analogy makes us suppose that the fluid exerts force, in the same manner as when an active being impels the body before him ; therefore we call this the 
IMPULSION of a Fluid.
And as our knowledge of nature inlorms∙ us that the mutual actions of bodies are in-
every case equal and opposite, and that the observed change of motion is the only indication, characteristic, and measure, of the changing force, the forces are the same (whether we call them impulsions or resistances) when the relative motions are the same, and therefore depend entirely on these relative motions. The force, therefore, which is neceffary for keeping a body immoveable in a stream of water, flowing with a certain velocity, is the same with what is required for moving this body with this velocity through stagnant water. To auy one who admits the motion of the earth round the fun, it is evident that we can neither observe nor reason from a case of a body moving through still water, nor of a stream of water pressing upon or impelling a quiescent body.
A body in motion appears to be resisted by a stagnant fluid, because it is a law of mechanical nature that force must be employed in order to put any body in motion. Now the body cannot move forward without putting the contiguous fluid in motion, and force must be employed for producing this motion. In like manner, a quiescent body is impelled by a stream of fluid, because the motion os the contiguous fluid is diminished by this solid obstacle ; the resistance, therefore, or impnlse, no way differs from the ordinary communica-tions of motion among solid bodies.
Sir Isaac Newton, therefore, begins his theory of the resistance and impulse of fluids, by selecting
a
cale where, although he cannot pretend to ascertain the motions themselves which are produced iu the particles of a contiguous stuid, he can tell precisely their mutual ra-tios.
He supposes two systems os bodies such, that each body os the first is fimilar to a corresponding body of the second, and that each is to each in a constant ratio. He also supposes them to be limilarly iituated, that is, at the angles os fimilar figures, and that the homologous lines of these figures are in the same ratio with the dia-meters of the bodies. He farther supposes, that they attract or repel each other in fimilar directions, and that the accelerating connecting forces are asso propor-tional ; that is, the forces in the one system are to the corresponding forces in tne other system in a eonstant ra^ tio, and that, in each system taken apart, the forces are as the squares of the velocities directly, and as the dia-meters of the correfponding bodies, or their distances, inversely.
This being the, case, it legitimately follows, that if fimilar parts-of the two systems are put into fimilar mo-tions, in any given instant, they will
continue
to move fimilarly, each correspondent body describing fimilar curves, with proportional velocities : For the bodies be-ing fimilarly fituated,the forces which act on a body in one fystem, arifing from the combination of any number of adjoining particles, will have the same direction with the force acting on the coι responding body in the other system, arifing from the combined action of the similar and fimilarly directed forces of the adjoining correspon-. dent bodies of the other system ; and these compound forces will have the same ratio with the simple forces which constitute them, and will be as the fquares of the velocities directly, and as the distances, or any homologous lines inversely ; and therefore the chords of curvature, having the direction of the centripetal or centrifugal forces, and fimilarly inclined
to
the tangents
of
the curves defcribed by the correfponding
bodies,
will have the same ratio with the distances of the pan tides. The curves described by the corresponding bodies will therefore be similar, the velocities will be propor-tional, and the bodies will be similarly sttuated at the end of the first moment, and expofed to the action of similar and fimilarly fituated centripetal or centrifugal forces; and this will again produce fimilar motions during the next moment, and fo on for ever. All this is evident to any person acquainted with the elementary doctrines of curvilineal motions, as delivered in the theory of phyfical astronomy.
From this fundamental propofition, it clearly follows, that if two similar bodies, having their homologous lines proportional to those of the two systems, be fimi-larly projected among the bodies of those two systerirs with any velocities, they will produce fimilar.motions in the two systems, and will themselves continue to move fimilarly ; and therefore will, in every subsequent moment, suffer fimilar diminutions or retardations. If the initial velocities of projection be the same, but the denfities of the two systems, that is, the quantities of matter con-tained in an equal bulk or extent, be different, it is evi-dent that the quantities of motion produced in the two systems in the same time will be proportional to the densities ; and if the densities are the same, and uniform in each system, the quantities of motion produced will be as the squares of the velocities, becaufe the motion communicated to each correfponding body will be pro-portional to the velocity communicated, that is, to the velocity of the impelling body ; and the number of similarly fituated particles which will be agitated will asso be proportional to. this velocity. Therefore, the whole quantities of motion produced in the fame moment of time will be proportional to the squares of the velocities. And lastly, if the denstties of the two systems are uniform, or the same through the whole extent of the systems, the number of particles impelled by fimilar bodies will be as the surfaces of these bodies.
Now the diminutions of the motions of the projected bodies are (by Newton’s third law of motion) equal to the motions produced in the systems; and these diminu-tions are the measures of what are called the reststances oppofed to the motions of the projected bodies. Therefore, combining all these circumstances, the refistances are proportional to the fimilar surfaces of the moving bodies, to the densities of the systems through which the motions are performed, and to the fquares of the velocities, jointly.
we cannot form to ourselves auy distinct notion of a fluid, otherwise than as a system of small bodies, or a collection of particles, similarly or symmetrically arranged, the centres of each being fituated in the angles of regular folids.
W
e must form this notion of it, whether we supposc, with the vulgar, that the particles are little globules in mutual contact, or, with the partisans of corpufcular attractions and repulfιons, we suppose the particles kept at a distance from each other by means of these attractions and repιdfions mutually balancing each other. In this last case, no other arrangement is confistent with a quielcent equilibrium : and in this case, it is evident, from the theory of curvilineal motions, that the agitations of the particles will always be such, that the connecting forces, in actual exertion,
will be proportional to the fquares of the velocities directly, and to the chords of curvature haviag the direc-tion of the forces inversely.
From these premises, therefore, we deduce, jit the strictest manner, the demonstration of the leading theo-r em of the resistance and impulfe of fluids ; namely,
cîProp. I. The refistances, and (by the third law of motion), the impulsions of fluids on similar bodies, are proportional to the surfaces of the solid bodies, to the densities of the fluids, and to the fquaιes of the velocities, jointly.
We must now obferve, that when we suppofe the par-ticles of the fluid to be in mutual contact, we may ei-ther fuppose them elastic or unelastic. The motion communicated to the collection of elastic particles must be double of what the same body, moving in the same manner, would communicate to the particles of an unelastic fluid. The impnlse and resistance of elastic fluids must therefore be double of those of unelastic fluids.— But we must caution our readers not to judge of the elasticity os fluids by their senfible compreffibility. A diamond is incomparably more elastic than the sinest football, though not compressible in any fenfible degree.— It remains to be decided, by well chosen experiments, whether water be not as elastic as air. If we suppose, with Boscovich, the particles of perfect fluids to be at a distance from each other, we ssiall find it difficult to conceive a fluid void of elafticity. we hope that the theory of their impulse and reststance wisl l'uggest experiments which wisl decide this question, by pointing out what ought to be the absolute impulse or reiistance in either case. And thus the fundamental proposttion of the impulse and resistance of fluids, taken in its pro-per meaning, is sufceptible of a rigid demonstration, re-lative to the only distinct notion that we can form of the internal constitution of a fluid. We lay,
taken in its proper meaning ;
namely, that the impulse or refistance of fluids is a preffure, opposed and measured by another preffure, such as a pound weight, the force of a spring, the preffure of the atmosphere, and the like. And we apprehend that it would he very difficult to find any legitimate demonftration of this leading proposttion different from this, which we have now borrowed from Sir lsaac Newton, Prop. 23,. B. II.
Princip. We
ac-knowledge that it is prolix and even circuitous : but in all the-attempts made by his commentators and their copyists to simplify it, we see great defects of logical argument, or affumption of principles, which are not only gratuitous, but inadmissible. we ssiall have occa-sion, as we proceed, to point out some of thefe defects ; and doubt not but the illustrious author of this demon-stration hadexercifed his uncommon patience and sagacity in similar attempts, and was diffatissied with them asl.
Before we proceed further, it vyill be proper to rn>ke a general remark, which wisl fave a great deal of discussion. Since it is a matter of univerfal experience, that every action of a body on others is accompanied by an equal and contrary re-action ; and since all that we can demonstrate concerning the resistance of bodies during their motions through fluids proceeds on this sup-position, (the resistance of ∣the body being
ajfumed
as equal and opposite to the sum of motions communicated to the particles of the fluid, estimated in the direction of the bodies motion), we are intitled to proceed in the contrary ordfer, and to consider the impulsions which each of the particles of fluid exerts on the body at rest, as equal and oppofite to the motion which the body would communicate to that particle if the fluid were at rest, and the body were moving equasly swift in the opposite direction. And therefore the whole impulsion of the fluid must be conceived as the measure of the whole motion which the body would thus communicate to the fluid. It must therefore be also considered as themeasurcof the resistance which the body, moving wish the same velocity, would sustain from the fluid, when, therefore, we ssiall demonstrate any thing concerning the impulsion of a fluid, estimated in the direction of its motion, we must consider it as demonstrated concerning the refift= ance of a quiescent fluid to the motion of that body, having the same velocity in the opposite direction. The determination of these impulsions being much easier than the determination of the motions communicated by the body to the particles os the siuid, this method wisl be followed in most of the subsequent discussions.
Tlie general propofition already delivered is by no means sussicient for explaining the various important phenomena observed in the mutual actions os solids and fluids. In particular, it gives us no assistance in ascer-tainshg she modifications of this reststance or impulfe, which depend on the shape of she body and the ineli-nation of its impelled or resisted surface to the direction of the motion. Sir Isaac Newton found another hypothefis neceffary ; namely, that the stuid should be so extremely rare that the distance of the particles may be incomparably greater than their diameters. This addi-tional condition is necessary for considering their actions as so many separate codifions or impuliι<ans on the solid body. Each particle mnst be supposed to have abundant room to rebound, or otherwise escape, after having made its stroke, without senfibly affecting the situations and motions of the particles which have not yet made their ftroke : and the motion mnst be so swist as not to give time for the sensible exertion of their mutual forces of attractions and repulsions.
Keeping these conditions in mind, we may proceed to determine the impuliions made by a fluid on surfaces of every kind : And the mo⅛ convenient method to pursue in this determination, is to compare them all either with the inιpulfε which the
fame Jurfiqce
would receive from the fluid impinging on it perpendicularly, or with the impulse which the
fame fiream of fiuid
would, make when coming perpendicularly on a surface of such extent as to occupy the whole stream.
It will greatly abbreviate-language, if we make use of a few terms in an appropriated sense.
By
3. fiream,
we shall mean a quantity of siuid moving in one direction, that is, each particle moving in paral-lel lines ; and the
breadth
of the stream is a line perpen-dicular to all these parallels.
A
filament
means a portion of this stream of very small breadth, and it consists of an indefinite number of particles following one another in the same direction, and successively impinging on, or gliding alom>-, the surface of the solid body.
The
base
of any lurface'expofed to a. stream of siuid, is that portion of a plane perpendicular to the stream, which is covered or protected from the action of the stream by the furface expofed to its impulse. Thus the base of a sphere expofed to a
stream
of fluid is its great
circle, whose plane is perpendicular to th¢ ftτeam. If BC (fig.
I.)
be a plane surface expofed to the action of a stream of stuid, moving in thc direction DC, then BR, or SE, perpendicular to DC, is its base.
Direct impulse
shall express the energy or action of the particle or filament, or stream of fluid, when meeting the surface perpendicularly, or when tlie furface is perpendicular to the direction of the stream.
Absolute impu/se
means the actual preffure on the impelled surface, arifing from the action of the fluid, whether striking the surface perpendicularly or obliquely ; or it is the force impreffed on the surface, or tendency to motion which it acquires, and which must be oppoled by an equal force in the opposite direction, in order that the surface may be maintained in its place. It is of importance to keep in mind, that this preffure is always perpendicular to the surfacc. It is a proposttion found-ed on universal and uncontradicted experience, that the mutual actions of bodies on each other are always exerted in a direction perpendicular to the touching fur-faces. Thus, it is obferved, that when a billiard ball A is struck by another B, moving in any direction what-ever, the ball A always moves off in the direction perpendicular to the plane which touches the two balls in the point of mutual contact, or point of impulse. This inductive proposition is fupported by every argument which can be drawn from what we know concerning the forces which connect the particles of matter together, and are the immediate causes of the communication of motion. It would employ much time and room to state them here ; and we apprehend that it is unneceffary : for no reason can be assigned why the preffure should be in
any particular
oblique direction. If any one should say that the impulse will be in the direction of the stream, we have only to desire him to take notice of the effect of the rudder of a ship. This shows that the impulse
is not in the direction of the fir earn,
and is therefore in some direction transverse to the ftream.— He will also find, that when a plane surface is impelled obliquely by a fluid, there is no direction in which it can be supported but the direction perpendicular to it-self. It is quite safe, in the mean time, to take it as an experimental truth, we may, perhaps, in some other part of this work, give what will be received as a rigorous demonstration.
Relative or effective impulse
means the preffure on the surface estimated in some particular direction. Thus BC (fig. i.) may represent the sail of a ship, impelled by the wind blowing in the direction DC. G Ο may be the direction of the ship’s keel, or the line of her course. The wind strikes the sail in the direction GH parallel to DC ; the sail is urged or preffed in the di-rection GI, perpendicular to BC. But we are interested to know what tendency this will give the ship to move in the direction GO. This is the effective or relative impulse. Ογ BC may be the transverfe section of the sail of a common wind-mill. This, by the construction of the machine, can move only in the direction GP, perpendicular to the direction of the wind ; and it is only in this direction that the impulse produces the desired effect. Ογ BC may be half of the prow of a punt or lighter, riding at anchor by means of the cable ' DC, attached to the prow C. In this case, GfiL. pa-rallel to DC, is that part of the absolute impulfe which 
is
employed in straining the cable.
The
angle of incidence
is the angle
F G C contained between the direction of the stream FG and the plane BC.
The
angle os obliquity
is the angle OGC contained between the plane and the direction GO, in which we wish to estimate the impulse.
Prop. II. The direct impulfe of a fluid on a plane surface, is to its absolute oblique impulse on the same furface, as the square of the radius to the square of the fine of the angle of incidence.
Let a stream of fluid, moving in the direction DC,
(fig. ι.), act on the plane BC. with the radius CB describe the quadrant ABE ; draw CA perpendicular to CE, and draw MN BS parallel to CE. Let t,he particle E, moving in the direction FG, meet the plane in G, and in F G produced take GH to reprefent the magnitude of the direct impulse, or the impulse which the particle would exert on the plane AC, by meeting it in
V.
Draw GI and HR perpendicular to BC, and HI perpendicular to G I. Also draw BR perpendicular to DC.
The force GH is equivalent to the two forces GI and GK ; and GK being in the direction of the plane has no share in the impnlse. The absolute impulse, therefore, is reprefeπted by GI ; the angle GHI is equal to FGC, the angle of incidence; and there·» fore GH is to GI as radius - to the fine of the angle of incidence : Therefore the direct impulse of each particle or filament is to its absolute ob-lique impulse as radius to the fine of the angle of inci-dence. But further, the number of particles or filaments which strike the surface AC, is to the number of those which strike the surshce B C as A C to NC : for all the filaments between LA and MB go past the ob-lique furface BC without striking it. But BC : NC≈ rad. : fin. NBC, = rad. : fin. FGC, = rad. : fin. incidence. Now the whole impulse is as the impulse of each filament, and as the number of filaments exerting equal impulses jointly ; therefore the whole direct im-pulse on AC is to the whole absolute impulse on BC, as the square of radius to the square of the fine of the angle of incidence.
Let S express the extent of the surface,
i
the angle of incidence,
o
the angle of obliquity,
v
the velocity of the fluid, and
d
its denfity. Let F represent the direct impulse,
f
the absolute oblique impulse, and
φ 
the relative or effective impulse : And let the tabular fines and cosines be coniidered as decimal fractions of the radius unity.
This propofition gives us F : ∕ = Rz : Sin.’
i, =
ι :
Sin.’
i,
and therefore
f
= F × Sin.’ z. Also, because impulses are in the proportion of the extent of surface fimilarly impelled, we have, in general, ∕= F S X 
Sind,
i.
The first who published this theorem was Pardies, in his
Oeuvres de Mathématique,
in 1673. we., know that Newton had investigated the chief propositions of the Principia before 1670.
Prop. III. The direct impulse on any sursace is to the effective oblique impulse on the same surface, as the cube of radius to the solid, which has for its base the square of the fine of incidence, and the fine of obliquity for its height.
For, when
GH
represents the direct impulfe of
a
particle, GI is the abfolute oblique impulse, and GO is the effective impulse in the direction G Ο : Now GI is to GO as radius to the fine of G
10,
and G
10
is the complement of IG0, and is therefore equal to CG0, "the angle of obliquity.
Therefore
f
: <r~R : Sin.
0.
But F :
s~
R1 : Sin.*z'
Therefore F : τ = R3 : Sir∣., i × Sin.
0.
and
'φ
~F × Sin.5 / × Sin. O.
Cor.—
The direct impulse on any surface is to the effective oblique impistfe in the direction of the ftream, as the cube of radius to the cube of the fine of incidence. For draw I Q^and GP perpendicular'to GH, and IP perpendicular to GP ; then the absolute im-pulse GI is equivalent to the impulse GQJ∏ the direc-tion ol the stream, and GP, which may be called the tranfverse impulfe. The angle G I QJs evidently equal to the angle GHI, or FGC, the angle of incidence.
Therefore ∕ : p =GI : GQj = R : Sin.
i.
"But F :
s ~
   R’    : Sin.’/.
Therefore F :
<P —    
R ’ : Sin.3
i.
And ¢ — F × Sin.’/.
Before we proceed further, we shall consider the im-pulse on a suiface which is also in motion. This is evidently a frequent and an important cafe. It is perhaps the most frequent and important : It is the case of
a
ship under fail, and of a wind or water-mill at work.
Tlιerefore, let a stream of siuid, moving with the direction and velocity DE, meet a plane BC, (fig. I. l ∙ no 2. ), which is moving parallel to itself in the direction and with the velocity DF : It is required to determine
the impulse ?
Nothing is more easy : The mutual actions of bodies depend on their relative motions only. The motion DE of thc fluid relative to BC, which is also in motion, is compounded of the real motion of the fluid and the oppofite to the real motion of the body. There-fore produce FD till D ∕~E>F, and complete the pa-'rallelogram D
f e
E, and draw the diagonal D
e.
The ⅛∏pulfe on the plane is the same as if the plane were at rest, and evcιy particle of the fluid impelled it in the direction and with the velocity D
e
; and may therefore be determined by the foregoing proposition. This pro-pofition applies to every possible case ; and we shall not bestow more time on it, but reserve the important mo-dification of the general propofition for the cases which shall occur in thc practical applications of the whole doctrine of the impulse and refistance of fluids.
Prop. IV. The direct impulse of a stream of fluid, whose breadth is given, is to its oblique effective impulfe in the direction of the stream, as the square of radius to the square of the fine of the angle of incidence.
For the number of filaments which occupy the ob-lique plane BC, would occupy the portion NC of a perpendicular plane, and therefore we have only to compare the perpendicular impulfe on any point V with the effective impulse made by the same filament FV on the oblique plane at G. Now GH fepresents the impulse which this filament would make at V ; and G Q~ is the effective impulse os the same filament at G, estimated in the direction G
H
of the stream ; and G
H is tβ
GQ as G Hi to GΣ1 , that is, as rad.i to fin/fi
Cor.
I.
The effective impulse in the direction os the stream on any plane surface BC, is to the direct impulfe on its base BR or SE, as the square of the fine of the angle of incidence to the fquare of the radius.
2. If an ifosceles wedge ACB (fig. 2.) be expofed to a stream of fluid moving in the direction of its 'height CD, the impulse on the fides is to the direct impulfe on the base as the square of half the bafe AD to the square of the fide AC, or as the fquare of the fine of half the angle of the wedge to the square of the radius. For it is evident, that in this case the two transverse impulses, such as GP in fig. ι, balance each other, and the only impulse which can be obferved is the sum of the two impulfes, luch as GQjff sig. ι, which are to be compared with the impulses on the two halves AD, DB of the base. Now AC : AB ≈ rad. : fin. ACD, and ACD is equal to the angle of incidence.
Therefore, if the angle ACB is a right angle, and ACD is half a right angle, the square of AC is twice the square of AD, ’ and the impulse on the sides of a rectangular wedge is half the impulse on its base.
Also, if a cube ACBE (sig. 3.) be expofed to
a
stream moving in a direction perpendicular to one of its sides, and then to a stream moving in a direction perpendicular to one of its diagonal planes, the impulse in the sirst case will be to the irapulse in the second as */ ?, to i. Call the perpendicular impulse on a side F, and the perpendicular impulse on its diagonal plane
ft
and the effective oblique impulse on its sides
<p
;—we have
F :/= AC : AB ≈ 1
: Vz
2, and
/: f = AChAD, = 2:1. Therefore
E : ;> —    2 : √, 2, = √2 : 1, or
very nearly as 10 to
7.
The same reasoning will apply to a pyramid whose base is a regular polygon, and whofe axis is perpendicu-lar to the bafe. If such a pyramid is expofed to
a 
stream of fluid moving in the direction of the axis, the direct impulse on the base is to the effective impulse on the pyramid, as the square of the radius to the fquare of the fine of the angle which the axis makes with the sides of the pyramid. *
And, in like manner, the direct impulsion on the base of a right cone is to the effective impulsion on the conical surface, as the square of the radius to the square of the fine of half the angle at the vertex of the cone. This is demonitrated, by supposing the cone to be a pyramid of an infinite number of sides.
we may in this manner compare the impulse on any polygonal surface with the impulse on its base, by comparing apart the impulses on each plane with those in their correfponding bales, and taking their sum.
And we may compare the impulse on a curved fur-face with that on its base, by resolving the curved surface into, elementary planes, each of which is impelled by an elementary filament of the ftream.
The following beautiful propofition, given by Le Seur and Jaquier, in their Commentary on the second Book of Newton’s Principia, with a few examples of its application, will sussice for any further account of this theory.
Prop.
V.—Let ADB (fig. 4.) be the section of a surface of fimple curvature, such as is the fnrface of a cylinder. Let this be expofed to the action of a stuid moving in the direction AC. Let BC be the
fecti¢n of the plane (which
we have ealled
its base), perpendicular to the direction of the stream. In AC produced, take any leαgth CG; and on CG describe the semicircle CHG, and complete the rectangle BCGO. Through any point p of the curve draw ED parallel to AC, and meeting BC and Ο G in Q_ and P- Let DF touch the curve in D, and draw the chord GH parallel to DF, aud HKM perpendi-cular to CG, meeting ED in M. Suppose this to be done for every point of the curve ADB, and let LMN be the curve which paffes through all the points of intersection of the parallels EDP and the corresponding perpendiculars HKM.
The effective impulse on the curve furface ADB in the direction of the stream, is to its direct impnlse on the base BC as the area BCNL is to the rectangle BCGO.
Draw
edqτnp
parallel to EP and extremely near it. The arch D
d
of the curve may be conceived as the section of an elementary plane, having the pofitioπ of the tangent DF. The angle EDF is the angle of in-cidence of the filament ED
d e.
T his is equal to COH, becaufe ED, DF, are parallel to CG, GH ; and (be-caufe CHG is a semicircle) CH is perpendicular to GH. Asso CG : CH = CH : CK, and CG : CK == CG’ : CH2 , = rad.1 : find, CGH, =rad.i : find in-cid. Therefore if CG, or its equal DP, represent the direct impulse on the point Q^of tlie base, CK, or its equal QM, will represent the effective iιnpulfe on the point D of the curve. And thus, Q y ∕> P will represent the direct impulse of the filament on the element Q 7 of the base, and Qjr
m
M will represent the effective impulse of the same silament on the element D
d
of the curve. Aud, as this is true of the whole curve ADB, the effective impulse on the whole curve will be represented by the area BCNML ; and the direct impulse on the base will be represented by the rectangle BCGO; and therefore the impulse on the curve-furface is to the impulse on the base as the area BLMNC 
is
to the rectangle BOGC.
It is plain, from the conftruction, that if the tangent to the curve at A is perpendicular to AC, the point N will coincide with G. Also, if the tangent to the curve at B is parallel to AC, the point L will coincide with B.
whenever, therefore, the curve ADB is fuch that an equation can be had to exhibit the general relation between the absciffa AR and the ordinate DR, we ihall deduce an equation which exhibits the relation between the abfciss CK and the ordinate KM of the curve LMN ; and this will give us the ratio of BLNC to BOGC.
Thus, if the surface is that of a cylinder, fo that the curve BDA
b
(fig. 5.), which receives the impulse of the fluid, is a semicircle, make CG equal to AC, and conftruct the figure as before. The curve BMG is a parabola, whose axis is CG, whose vertex is G, and whose parameter is equal to CG. For it is plain, that CG = DC, and GH =
CQλ = MK.
And CG × GK = GH2 — KM3 . That is, the curve is sueh, that the square of the ordinate KM is equal to the rectangle of the absciffa GK arfd a conftant line GC; and it is.there-
fore a
parabola whose vertex
is
G. Now,
jt iβ well
known, that the parabolic area
BMGC is two thirds
of the parallelogram BCGO. Therefore the impull'e on the quadrant ADB is two thirds of the impulfe on the base BC. The same may bc faid of the quadrant 
fodb
and its base
c b.
Therefore,
The impulse on
α
cylinder or half cylinder is t wo thirds of the direct impulfe on its tranfverse plane through the axis ;
or it is two thirds of the direct impulse on one side of a parallelopiped of thc same breadth and height.
Pk,op.
VI,—If the body be a solid generated by
the
revolution of the figure BDAC (sig. 4.) round the axis AC ; and if it be expoi¢d to the action of
a 
stream
q(
siuid moving in the direction of the axis AC; then the effective impulse in the direction of the stream is to the direct impulse on its base, as the solid generated by the revolution of the figure BLMNC round the axis CN to the cylinder generated by th¢ revolution of the rectangle BOGC.
This scarcely needs â demonstration. The figure
ADBLMNA is a section of these folids by a plane passing through the axis ; and what has been demon-strated of this section is true of every other, because they are all equal and similar. It 15 therefore true of the whole solids, and (their base) the circle generated by the revolution of BC round the axis AC.
Hence we easily deduce, that
The impulfe on a sphere is one half of the direct impulse on its great circle, or on the bafe of a cylinder of equal diameter.
For in this case the curve BMN (sig. 5.) which generates the solid expressiug the impulse on the sphere is a parabola, and the solid is a parabolic conoid. Now this conoid is to the cylinder generated by the revolution of the rectangle BOGC round the axis CG, as the film of all the circles generated by the revolution of ordinates to the parabola fuch as KM, to the sum of as many circles generated by the ordinates to the rectangle such as K’s; or as the sum of all the squares described on the ordinates KM to the sum of as many squares described on the ordinates KT. Draw BG cut-ting MK in S. The square on MK is to the square on BC or TK as the abfcifla GK to the absciffa GC (by the nature of the parabola), or as SK to BC ; because SK and BCare refpectively equal toGK andGC. 1 herefore the sum of all the squares on ordinates, such as MK, is to the sum of as many fquares on ordinates, such as TK, as the sum of all the lines SK to the film of as many lines TK ; that is, as the triangle BGC to the rectangle BOGC ; that is, as one to two : and therefore the impulse on the sphere is one half of the direct impulse on its great circle.
From the same construction we may very eafily deduce a very curious and seemingly useful truth, that of all conical bodies having the circle whose diameter is AB (fig. 2.) for its base, and FD for its height, the one which sustains the smallest impulse or meets with the smallest refistance is the frustum AGHB of a cone ACB so constructed, that EF being taken equal to ED, EA is equal to EC. This frustum, though more capacious than the cone AFB of the same height, will be less resisted.
Also, if the solid generated by the revolution
of
BDAC (sig. 4.) have its anterior part covered with
3 frustum of a cone generated by the lines D
a, a A,
forming
the
angle at « of 135 degrees; this solid, though more capacious than the included solid, will be lefs lesisted.
And, from the fame principles, Sir Isaac Newtcn determined the form of the curve ADB which would generate the solid which, of all others of the same length and bas¢, should have the least resistance.
These are curious and important deductions, but are not introduced here, for reafons which will soon ap-
pear.
The reader cannot fail to observe, that all that we ⅛tve hitherto delivered on this subject, relates to the comparιfon
of
different impulses or refinances. we have always compared the oblique impulfions with the direct, and by their intervention we compare the ob-lique impulsions with each other. But it remains to give absolute measures of some individual impulsion ; to which, as to an unit, we may refer every other. And as it is by their pressure that they become use-ful or hurtful, and they must be opposed by other pressures, it becomes extremely convenient to compare them all with that pressure with which we are most familiarly acquainted, the pressure of gravity.
The manner in which the companion is made, is this, when a body advances in a fluid with a known velocity, it puts a known quantity of the fluid into motion (as is fupposed) with this velocity ; and this is done in a known time, we have only to examine what weight will put this quantity of fluid into the fume motion, by acting on it during the same time. This weight is conceived as equal to the resistance. Thus, let us fuppose that a stream of water, moving at the rate of eight feet
per
second, is perpendicularly obstructed by a square foot of folid furface held fast in its place. Conceiving water to act in the manner of the hypothetical fluid now defcribed, and to be without elasticity, the whole effect is the gradual annihilation of the motion of eight cubic feet of water
mo-
ving eight feet in a second. And this is done in a se-cond of time. It is equivalent to the gradually put-
ting
eight cubic feet of' water into motion with this velocity ; and doing this by acting uniformly during a fecond. what weight is able to produce this effect ? The weight of eight feet of water, acting du-ring a second on it, will, as is well known, give it the velocity of thirty-two feet
per
second ; that is, four times greater. Therefore, the weight of the fourth part of eight cubic feet, that is, the weight of two cubic feet, acting during a second, will do the fame thing, or the weight of
a
column of water whose bafe is a square foot, and whofe height is two feet. This will not ©nly produce this effect in the same time with the impulsion of the solid body, but it will also do it by the fame degrees, as any one will clearly perceive, by at-tending to the gradual acceleration of the mafs of water urged by ∣ of its weight, and comparing this with 
the
gradual production or extinction of motion in the fluid by the progress of the resisted surface.
Now it is well known that 8 cubic feet of water, by felling one foot, which it will do in one-fourth of a fe-¢ond, will acquire the velocity of eight feet per second by its weight ; therefore the force which produces the feme effect in
a
whole second is one-fourth of this. This 
ferce is therefore equal to the
weight of
a column of
water, whofe base is a square foot, and whose height is two feet} that is, twice the height neceffary for acquiring the velocity of the motion by gravity. The con-clusion is the same whatever be the surface that is resisted, whatever be the fluid that resists, and whatever be the velocity of the motion. In this inductive and fa-miliar manner we learn, that
the direct impulfe or rfifi-ance of an unelajlicfiuid on any plane surface, is equal to the weight of
a
column of the fiuid having the furface for its bafe, and twice the fall necejfary for acquiring the velocity of the motion for its height :
and if the fluid is considered as elastic, the impulse or refistance is twice as great. See Newt.
Princip.
B. II. prop. 35. and 38.
It now remains to compare this theory with experi-ment. Many have been made, both by Sir Ifaac Newton and by subsequent writers. It is much to be la-mented, that in a matter of fuch importance, both to the philofopher and to the artist, there is such a difa-greement in the results with each other, we sliall mention the experiments which seem to have been made with the greatest judgment and care. Those of Sir Isaac Newton were chiefly made by the oscillations of pendulums in water, and by the descent of balls both in water and in air. Many have been made by Mariotte 
(Traité de Mouvement des Eaux).
Gravefande has pub-liihed, in his
Syfiem of Natural Philosophy,
experiments made on the resistance or impulsions on solids in thc midst of a pipe or canal. They are extremely well con-trived, but are on so fmall a scale that they are of very little use. Daniel Bernoulli, and his pupil Profeffor Krafft, have publistied, in the
Comment. Acad. PetropοI 
experiments on the impulse of a stream or vein of water from an orisice or tube: These are of great value. The Abbé Boffut has publiihed others of the same kind in his
Hydrodynamique.
Mr Robins has published, in life 
New Principles of Gunnery,
many valuable experiments on the impulse and resistance of air. The Chev. de Borda, in the
Mem. Acad. Paris,
1763 and 1767, has given experiments on the resistance of air and also of water, which are very interesting. The most complete collection of experiments on the resistance of water are those made at the public expence by a committee of the academy of sciences, consisting of the marquis de Condorcet, Mr d’Alembert, Abbe Boffut, and others. The Chev. de Buat, in his
Hydraulique,
has publiihed some
most curious and valuable experiments, where many im-portant circumftances are taken notice of, which had never been attended to before, and which give a view of the subject totally different from what is usually ta-ken of it. Don George d’Ulloa, in his
Examine Ma-ritimo,
has also given some important experiments, similar to those adduced by Bougeur in his
Manœuvre des Vaiffeaux,
but leading to very different conclusions. All these ihould be consulted by such as would acquire a practical knowledge of this subject. we must content ourselves with giving their most general and steady re-sults. Such as,
I.
It is very consonant to experiment that the resistances are proportional to the squares of the velocities, when the velocities of water do not exceed a few feet per second, no sensible deviation is obferved. In very small velocities the resistances are fensibly greater than in this proportion, and this excess is plainly owing to the viscidity or imperfect fluidity
of
water. Sir Isaac
N a
Newton has shown that the resistance arising from this cause is constant, or the same in every velocity ; and when he has taken off a certain part of the total resist-ance, he found the remainder was very exactly proportionable to the square of the velocity. His experiments to this purpose were made with balls a very little heavier than water, so as to descend very flowly ; and they were made with his usual care and accuracy, and may be depended on.
In
thc expcriments made with bodies floating on the surface of water, there is an addition to the resistance arising from the inertia of the water. The water heaps up a little on the anterior surface of the floating body, and is depreffed behind it. Hence arises a hydrostatical preffure, acting in concert with the true resistance. A similar thing is observed in the resistance of air, which is condensed before the body and rarefied behind it, and thus an additional refistance is produced by. the unbalanced elasticity of the air ; and also because the air, which is
actually
displaced, is denser than common air. These circumstances cause the refistances to increase faster than the squares of the velocities : but, even independent of this, there is an additional refistance arifing from the tendency to rarefaction behind a very swift body ; becaufe the preffure of the surrounding fluid can only make the siuid fill the space left with a determined velocity.
we have had occasion to speak of this circumstance more particularly under Gunnery and Pneumatics, when co.nsidering very rapid motions. Mr Robins had remarked that the velocity at which the observed resistance of the air began to increase so prodigioufly, was that of about noo or 1200 feet per second, and that this was the velocity with which air would-rush into a void. He concluded, that when the velocity was great-er than this, the ball was expofed to the additional re-fistance arising from the unbalanced statical preffure of the air, and that this constant quantity behoved to be added to the resistance arising from the air's inertia in all greater velocities. This is very reasonable : But he imagined that in smaller velocities there was no such unbalanced preffure. But this cannot be the case : for although in smaller velocities the air will ftill fill up the fpace behind the body, it will not fill it up .with air of the fâme density. This would be to suppose the motion of the air into the deserted place to be instantane-ous. There must therefore be a rarefaction behind the body, and a preffure backward ; arising from unbalan-ced elafticity, independent of the condensation on the anterior part. The condensation and rarefaction are caused by the same thing,
viz.
the limited elafticity of the air. were this infinitely great, the smallest ∙conden-fation before the body would be instantly diffused over the whole air, and so would the rarefaction, so that no preffure of unbalanced elasticity would be observed; but the elasticity is fuch as to propagate the condenfation with the velocity of found only, z.
e.
the velocity of 1142 feet per second. Therefore this additional re-sistance does not commence precisely at this velocity, but is sensible in all smaller velocities, as is very justly observed by Euler. But we are not yet able to ascer-tain the law of its increase, although it is a problem which seems susceptible
of
a tolerably accurate solu-
tion.
Precisely fimilar to this is the resistance to the mo-tion of floating bodies, arising from the accumulation or gorging up of the water on their anterior furface, and its depression behind them, were the gravity of the water infinite, while its inertia remains the fame, the wave raised up at the prow of a ship would be instantly dissused over the whole ocean, and it would therefore be infinitely small, as also the depression be-hind the poop. But this wave requires time for its dissufion ; and while it is not dissused, it acts byshydrofe-tieal pressure. AVe are equally unable to alcertain the law of variation of this part of the resistance, the me-chanism of waves being but very imperfectly under-stood. The height of the wave in the experiments of the French academy could not be measured with suffi-cient precision (being only observed
en pafiant)
tor afcertaining its relation to the velocity. The Chev. Buat attempted it in his experiments, butwithoutsuccess. Thia must evidently make a part of the resistance in all velo-cities : and it still remains an undecided question, "what relation it bears to the velocities?” when the solid body is wholly buried in the siuid, this accumulation doea not take place, or at least not in the same way : It
may, however, be observed. Every person may recol-lect, that in a very swift running stream a large stone at the bottom will produce a small swell above it ; un-less it lies very deep, a nice eye may still observe it. The water, on arriving at the obstacle, glides past it in every direction, and is deflected on all hands; and therefore what passes over it is also deflected upwards, and causes the water over it to rise above its level. The nearer that the body is to the surface, the greater will be the perpendicular rise of the water, but it will be less dissused; and it is uncertain whether the
whole
elevation will be greater or less. By the whole elevation we mean the area of a perpendicular section of the ele-vation by a plane perpendicular to the direction of the stream. we are rather disposed to think that this area will be greatest when the body is near the surface. D’Ulloa has attempted to consider this subject scienti-fically ; and is of a very different opinion, which he confirms by the single experiment to he mentioned by and by. Mean time, it is evident, that if the water which glides past the body cannot fall in behind it with sussicient velocity for filling up the space behind, there must be a void there ; and thus a hydrostatical pressure must be superadded to the resistance arising from the inertia of the water. All must have observed, that if the end of a stick held in the hand be drawn slowly through the water, the water will fill the place left by the stick, and there will be no curled wave : but .if the motion be very rapid, a hollow trough or gutter is left behind, and is not silled up till at some distance from the stick, and the wave which forms its fides is very much broken and curled. The writer of this article has often looked into the water from the poop of a second rate man of war when she was failing 11 miles per hour, which is a velocity of 16 feet per second nearly ; and he not only observed that the back of the rudder was naked for about two feet below the load water-line, but also that the trough or wake made by the ship was filled up with water which was broken and foaming to a considerable depth, and to a confiderable distance from the vessel: There must therefore have been
a voi<L
He
never
saw the wake perfectly tranfparent (and therefore completely silled with water) when the velocity exceeded 9 or ι o feet per second. while this broken water is obferved, there can be no doubt that there is a void and an additional refistance. But even when the space left by the body, or the space behind a still body expofed to a stream, is completely silled, it may not be silled sussiciently fast, and there may be («and certainly is, as we shall fee afterwards)· a quantity of water behind the body, which is moving more slowly away than the rest, and therefore hangs in some shape by the body, and is dragged by it, increafing the resistance. The quantity of this must depend partly on the velocity of the body or stream, and partly on the rapidity with which the surrounding water comes in behind. This last must depend on the pressure of the surrounding water. It would appear, that when this adjoining- pressure is very great, as must happen when the depth is great, the augmentation of resistance now spoken of would be lefs. Accordingly this appears in Newton’s experiments, where the balls were less retarded as they were deeper under water.
These experiments are so simple in their nature, and were made with fuch care, and by a person so able to detect and appreciate every circumstance, that they de-serve great credit, and the conclusions
legitimately
drawn from them deserve to be considered as phyfical laws, 
we
think that the present deduction is unexception-able : for in the motion of balls, which hardly descen-ded, their preponderancy being hardly sensible, the effect of depth must have borne a very great proportion to the whole resistance, and must have greatly influenced their motions ; yet they were observed to fall as if the refistance had no way depended on the depth.
The same thing appears in Borda’s experiments, where a sphere which was deeply immersed in the water was less resisted than one that moved with the same velocity near the surface ; and this was very constant and regular in a course of experiments. D’Ulloa, however, affirms the contrary : He says that the resistance of a board, which was a foot broad, immerfed one foot in a stream moving two feet per second, was 15⅜ lbs⅛ and the resistance to the same board, when immersed 2 seet in a stream moving if feet per second (in which case the surface was 2 feet), was 264 pounds (a).
we are very sorry that we cannot give a proper account of this theory of resistance by Don George Juan D’Ul-loa, an author of great mathematical reputation, and the inlpector of the marine academies in Spain, we have not been able to procure either the original or the French translation, and judge of it only by an extract by Mr Prony in his
Architecture Hydraulique, §
868. &c. The theory is enveloped (according to Mr Prony’s custom) in the most complicated expressions, so that the physical principles are kept almost out of sight. when accommodated to the simplest possible case, it is nearly as follows.
Let
0
be an elementary orisice or portion of the surface of the side of a vessel silled with a heavy fluid, and let
h
be its depth under the horizontal surface of the fluid.
Let ί be
the density of the fluid, and ;>
the ac-
celerative power of gravity,
=32
feet velocity acqui-red in a second.
It is known, says he, that the water would flow out at this hole with the velocity
u
≈ V, 2
fh,
anda2 ^3ιA
uz
and
h —— ∙
It is also known that the pressure
p
on
the orisice
0 is φ 0 $ h, :=:<;> 0 $ t ^~, ~
∙∣∙ ί 0 a, .
2
T>
Now let this little surface
0
be supposed to mov¢" with the velocity
t υ.
The siuid would meet it with the velocity
u -fi v,
or
u — v,
according as it moved in the opposite or in the same direction with the efflux.
In 
the equation
p ~ lr S 0 u1 ,
substitute
u τ±z
<u for
u,
and we have the pressure on
0 ~ ρ ■=. -~- (u
∑±c
v} =
( Vz
2d z±z
<υ1 ).
This pressure is a weight, that is, a mass of matter
m
actuated by gravity
t,
or
p = f m,
and
m = o
r√^→z -2L.y.
∖    √2f∕
This elementary surface being immersed in a stag-nant stuid, and moved with the velocity
v,
will sustaiiv on one side a pressure
0
(vzz,+ √rj'
and on the
other side
a
pressure <-r
0 h —
ζZ~) ’ an ^t ^ιe ^en ' sible resistance will be the difference of these two preffures, which is
$ 0
4 5/
h —— ,
or <f
0
4
h —
, that
√2P    8
is, —--
γr
becaufe
f2Tf >= S ;
a quantity which
is
2
in the subduplicate ratio of the depth under the surface of the fluid, and the simple ratio of the velocity of the resisted furface jointly.
There is nothing in experimental philosophy more certain than that the resistances are very nearly in the duplicate ratio of the velocities ; and we cannot conceive by what experiments the ingenious author has supported this conclusion.
But there is, besides, what appears to us to be an essential defect in this investigation. The equation ex-hibits no resistance in the case of a fluid without weight. Now a theory of the resistance of fluids should exhibit the retardation arising from inertia alone, and should di-stinguish it from that arising from any other cause: and. moreover, while it
ajfigns
an ultimate sensible resistance proportional
(c&teris paribus)
to the simple velocity, it 
aj]umes
as a sirst principle that the pressure
p
is as
u u±zv ∙ 
It also gives a false measure of the ssatical pressures ⅞ for these (in the case of bodies immersed in our waters at least) are made up of the pressure of the incumbent water, which is measured by
h,
and the pressure of the atmosphere, a constant quantity.
whatever 1eafon can be given for setting out with-the principle that the pressure on the little furface 0, moving with the velocity
u,
is equal to ⅜
io
(w=±>u)i , makes it indispensably necessary to take for the velocity
(a)
There is somethshg
very unaccountable in these experiments. The·resistances are much greater than any-•ther author has observed,
tf, not that with
which water would issue from a hole whose depth under the surface is A, but the velocity with which it will iffue from a hole whose depth is
h
-J- 33 feet Because the preffure of the atmo∙ sphere is equal to that of a column of water 3 3 feet high: for this is the acknowledged velocity with which it would rush in to the void lest by the body. If therefore this velocity (which does not exist) has any share in the effort, we mu
st have
for the fluxion of
„    4√Z>
v,    
4Vz Z>4-33j∙υ
preffure not --z ∙-■ but-—, This would not
√2 ¢>    
v
2 ?
only give preffure or resistances many times exceeding those that have been observed in our experiments, but would alfo totally change the proportions which this theory determines. It was at any rate improper to em-barrass an uivestigation, already very intricate, with the preffure of gravity, and with two motions of efflux, which do not exist, and are neceffary for making the preffures in the ratio of tt-f-c i∕ and «—τΛ
Mr Prony has been at no pains to inform his readers of his reafons for adopting this theory of resiftance, so contrary to all received opinions, and to the most distinct experiments. Those of the French academy, made un-der greater preffures, gave a much smaller resistance ; and the very experiments adduced in support of this theory are extremely deficient, wanting fully Jd of what the theory requires. The resistances by experiment were 15∣ and 26J, and the theory required 20⅜ and 39, The equation, however, deduced srom the theory is greatly deficient in the expression of the preffures cau' fed by the accumulation and depression, stating the
heights of them as ≈ —, They can never be so high,
3 ?
because the heaped up water flows off at the sides, and
it
also comes in behind by the sides j so that the pressure is much less than half the weight os a column whose
height is —; both because the accumulation and de-2∙P
preffion are less at the sides than in the middle, and be-cause, when the body is wholly immersed, the accumu-Jation is greatly diminished. Indeed in this case the final equation does not include their effects, though as real in this case as when part of the body is above water.
Upon the whole, we are somewhat surprised that an author of D’Ulioa’s eminence should have adopted a theory so unnecessarily and so improperly embarrassed with foreign circumstances ; and that Mr Prony should have inferted it with the explanation by which he was to abide, in a work destined sor practical use.
This point, or the effect os deep immersion, is still much esntested ; and it 13 a received opinion, by many not ac-customed to mathematical researches, that the resistance is greater in greater depths. This is assumed as an important principle by Mr Gordon, author of
A Theory of Naval Architecture ;
but on very vague and flight grounds ; and the author seems unacquainted with the manner
of
reafoning on such subjects. It shall be con-sidered afterwards.
with these corrections, it may be asserted that theory and experiment agree very well in this respect, and that the resistance may be asserted to
be
in the duplicate ratio of the velocity,
we
have been more minute on this subject, becaujfe
it
is the leading propofition in the theory of the ac
tion of fluids., Newton’s demonstration of it take»
na
notice
of
the manner in which the various particles of the fluid are put into motion, or the motion which each in particular acquires. He only shows, that if there ba nothing concerned in the communication but pure ⅛-ertia, the sum total of the motions of the particles, esti-mated in the direction of the bodies motion, or that of the stream, will be
in
the duplicate ratio of the velocity. It was therefore of importance to show that thia part of the theory was just, To do this, we had to consider the effect of every circumstance which could be combined with the inertia of the fluid, AU these had been forefeen by that great man, and are most briefly, though perspicuously, mentioned in the last s¢hoHum to prop.
36. 
B. II.
2.    It appears from a comparison of all the expert-ments, that the impulses and resistances are very nearly in the proportion of the surfaces. They appear, how-ever, to shcrease fomewhat faster than the surfaces. The Chevalier Borda found that the resistance, with the same velocity, to a surface of
9 inches') (    9    )    C 9
*1    
Γ
    WaS     A
36    C    ∕ 42,750c    Jj¢
81    
J
    V104>737J    K-8x
The deviation in thefe experiments from the theory increases with the surface, and is probably much greater in thc extensive surfaces of the fads of ships and windmills, and the hulls of ships.
3.    
The resistances do by no means vary in the du« plicate ratio of the fines of the angles of incidence.
As this is the most interesting circumstance, having a chief influence on all the particular modifications of the resistance of fluids, aqd as on this depends the whole theory of the construction and working of ihips, and the action of water on oui most important machines, and seems most immediately connected with the media' nism of fluids, it merits a very particular confideration, we cannot do a greater fervice than by rendering more generally known the excellent experiments os the French academy.
Fifteen boxes or vessels were constructed, which were two feet wide, and two feet deep, and four feet long. One of them was a parallelopiped of thefe dimenfions ⅛ the others had prows of a wedge-form, the angle ACB (sig. 7.) varying by 120 degrees from 12° to 180° j fo that the angle of incidence increased by
6q 
from one to another. Thefe boxes were dragged across a very large bafon of smooth water (in which they were immersed two feet) by mean# of a line paffing over
a 
wheel connected with a cylinder, from which the actu∙
, ating weight was suspended. The motion became per-fectly uniform after a very little way } and the time of passmg over 96 French feet with this uniform motion was very carefully noted. The resistance was measu-red by the weight employed, after deducting a certain quantity (properly estimated) for friction, and for the accumulation of the water against the anterior surfac¢. The results of the many experiments arc given in the following table ; where column ist contains the angle of the prow, column zd contains the resistance as given by the preceding theory, column 3d contains the resistan¢e exhibited in the experiments, and column 4th contain# 
the deviation
of the experiment from
the theory,
Γ.    
IL    ∏L    IV,
x8a    ΙΟΟΟΟ    IOOOQ    ο
1<58    9⅜0     9s 93    ÷3
156    9568     9578    ÷iQ
144    9045    9°s 4    +39
132    
8346    8446    ÷ wo
J3Q    
7500    77iQ    4-210
jo8    6545    
6925    4-380
96    
5523    6148    +625
84    4478    543J    +955
72    3455    4800    +1345
60    2500    
4404    +1 9o 4
48    1654    
4240    
-j-2586
36    
955    4142    ÷3l8 7
24    43 g    4063    + 3
6 3i
12    
109    3999    4-3890
The resistance to 1 square foot, French measure, moving with the velocity of 2,56 feet pci second, was ve-
ry
nearly 7,625 pounds French.
Reducing these to English measures, we have the suiface = l√363 feet, the velocity of the motion equal to 2,7263 feet per second, and the resistance equal to 8,234 pounds avoirdupois. The weight of a column of iresh water of this base, and having for its height the fall neceffary for communicating this velocity, is 8,264 pounds avoirdupois. TlTe resistances to other velocities were accurately proportional to the squares of the velocities.
There is great diversity in the value which different authors have deduced for the absolute resistance of wa-
ter
from their experiments. In the value now given nothing is taken into account but the inertia of the water. The accumulation against the forepart of the boχ was carefully noted, and the statical preffure backwards, arising from this cause, was subtracted from the whole resistance to the drag. There had not been a sufficient variety of experiments for diseovering the share which tenacity and friction produced ; fo that the number of pounds set down here may be considered as fomewhat superior to the mere effects of the inertia of the water, 
we
think, upon the whole, that it is the most accurate determination yet given of the resistance to a body in motion : but we shall afterwards see reafons for belie -ving, that the impulse of a running stream having the same velocity is somewhat greater ; and this is the form in which most of the experiments have been made.
Also observe, that the refistance here given is that to a veffel two feet broad and deep and four feet long. The refistance to a plane of two feet broad and deep would probably have exceeded this in the proportion of 15,22 to 14,54, for reafons we shall see afterwards.
From the experiments of Chevalier Buat, it appears that a body of one foot square, French measure, and two feet long, having its centre 15 inches under water, moving three French feet per second, fustained a preffure of 14,54 French pounds, or 15,63 English. This redu-ced in the proportion of 31 to 2,56i gives 11,43 pounds, considerably exceeding the 8,24.
Mr Bouguer, in his
Manœuvre des Vajseaux,
fays, that he
found the resistance of sea-water to
a
velocity of one foot to be 23 ounces
poids des Marc.
The Chevalier Borda found the resistance of sea-water to the face of a cubic foot, moving against the
wa
ter
one foot per second, to
be 21 ounces
nearly. But this
experiment iβ
complicated ; the
wave wag net de. 
ducted ; and it was not a plane, but a cube.
Don George d’Ulloa found the impulfe of a stream of fea-water, running two feet per fecond on a foot square, to be 15Î pounds English measure. This greatly exceeds all the values given by others.
From these experiments we learn, in the first place, that the direct refistance to a motion of a plane furface through water, is very nearly equal to the weight of
a 
column of water having that surface for its basc,
and 
for its height the fall producing the velocity of the motion. This is but one half of the refistance determined by the preceding theory. It agrees, however, very well with the best experiments made by other philoso-phers on bodies totally immerfed or surrounded by the fluid ; and sussiciently shows, that there must be
some 
fallacy in the principles or reasoning by which this re-sult of the theory is supposed to be deduced. We
shall 
have occafion to return to this again.
But we see that the effects of the obliquity of inci-dence deviate enormously from the theory, and thafc this deviation increases rapidly as the acuteness of the prow increases. In the prow of 6o0 the deviation is nearly equal to the whole refistance pointed out by the theory, and in the prow of 120 it is nearly 40 times greater than the theoretical refistance.
The refistance of the prow of 90o should be one half the reststance of the base. we have not fitch a prow ; but the medium between the resistance of the prow of 96 and 84 is 5790, instead of 500.
These experiments are very conform to those of other authors on plane surfaces. Mr Robins found the re-sistance of the air to a pyramid of 450 , with its apex foremost, was to that of its bafe as 1000 to 1411, in-stead of-O∏e to two. Chevalier Borda found the refistance of a cube, moving in water in the direction of the fide, was to the oblique refistance, when it was moved in the direction of the diagonal, in the proportion of 5∣∙ to 7 ; whereas it should have been that of √2 to 1, or of 10 to 7 nearly. He also found, that a wedge whose angle was 90°, moving in air, gave for the proportion of the resistances of the edge and base 7281 : 10000, instead of 5000 : 10000, Alfo when the angle of the wedge was 600 , the refistances of the edge and base were 52 and 100, instead of 25 and 100.
In short, in all the cafes os oblique plane surfaces, the resistances were greater than those which are affigned by the theory. The theoretical law agrees tolerably with observation in large angles of incidence, that is, in incidences not differing very far from the perpendicular ; but in more acute prows the resistances are more nearly proportional to the fines of incidence than to their squares.
The academicians deduced from these experiments an expression of the general value of the refistance, which corresponds tolerably well with observation. Thus 
let
x
be the complement of the half angle of the prow, and let
P
be the direct preffure or resiftance, with an 
incidence of 90o , and
p
the effective oblique preffure : then
p ~
P ×
cosine , * + 3,t53    
‘ This
gives for a prow of 120 an error in defect about τ ⅛, and in larger angles it is much nearer the truth ;
and 
this is exact enough for aβ!y
practice.
Thia is an
abundantly simple formula ; but if we introduce it in our calculations of the resiftances of curvilineal prows, it renders them so complicated as to be al-moft useless ; and what is worse, when the calculation is completed for a curvilineal prow, the resisiance which refults is found to differ widely from experiment. This shows that the motion of the fluid is so modified by the action of the moft prominent part of the prow, that its impulse on what succeeds is greatly affected, fo that we are not allowed to consider the prow as composed of 
a
number of parts, each of which is affected as if it were detached from all the reft.
As the very nature of naval architecture seems to require curvilineal forms, in order to give the neceffary strength, it seemed of importance to examine more particulary the deviations of the resiftances of such prows . from the refistances affigned by the theory. The academicians therefore made veffels with prows of a cylindrical shape ; one of these was a half cylinder, and the other was one-third of a cylinder, both having the same breadth, viz. two feet, the same depth, also two feet, and the same length, four feet. The resistance of the half cylinder was to the resistance of the perpendicular prow in the proportion of 13 to 25, instead of being as 13 to 19,5. The Chevalier Borda found nearly the same ratio os the refistances of the half cylin-der, and its diametrical plane when moved in air. He also compared the resistances of two prisms or wedges, of the same breadth and 'height. The sirst had its sides plane, inclined to the base in angles of 60°; the second had its sides portions os cylinders, of which the planes were the chords, that is, their sections were arches of circles of 60, . Their resistances were as 133 to 100, instead of being as 133 to 220, as required by the theory ; and as the resistance of the sirst was greater in proportion to that of the base than the theory allows, the resistance of the last was less.
Mr Robins found the resistance of a sphere moving in air to be to the refistance of its great circle as 1 to 2,27 ; whereas theory requires them to be as
I
to 2. He found, at the fame time, that the absolute refistance was greater than the weight of a cylinder of air of the same diameter, and having the height neceffary for acquiring the velocity. It was greater in the proportion 
•of
49 to 40 nearly.
Borda found the rcfistance of the sphere moving in water to be to that of its great circle as 1000 to 2508, and it was one-ninth greater than the weight of the column of water whose height was that neceffary for producing the velocity. He also found the refist-smee of air to the sphere was to its resistance to its great circle as 1 to 2,45.
It appears, on the whole, that the theory gives the refistance of oblique plane surfaces too small, and that of curved surfaces too great ; and that it is quite unfit for afcertaining the modifications of resistance arifing from the figure of the body. The most prominent part of the prow changes the action of the fluid on the succeeding parts, rendering it totally different from what it would be were that part detached from the rest, and expofed to the stream with the same obliquity. It is of no consequence, therefore, to deduce any formula from the valuable experiments of the French academy. The experiments themselves are of great importance, 
jjecause
they give us the impulses on plane surfaces with
every obliquity. They therefore put it
in our power
to select the most proper obliquity in a thousand im-portant cases. By appealing to them, we can tell what is the proper angle of the sail for producing the great-est impnlse in the direction of the ship’s course ; or the best inclination of the sail of a wind-mill, or the best in-clination of the float of a water-wheel, &c. &c. These deductions will be made in their proper places in the coursc of this work, we see also, that the deviation from the srmple theory is not very confiderable till the obliquity is great ; and that, in the inclinations which other circumstances would induce us to give to the floats of water-wheels, the fails of wind-mills, and the like, the results of the theory are sussiciently agreeable to experiment, for rendering this theory of very great use in the construction of machines. Its great défect is in the impulsions on curved sursaces, which puts a stop to our improvement of the science of naval arcħi-lecture, and the working of ships.
But it is not enough to detect the saults os this theo-ry : we should try to amend it, or to substitute ano-ther. It is a pity that so much ingenuity should have been thrown away in the application of a theory so defective. Mathematicians were seduced, as has been al-ready observed, by the opportunity which it gave for exercifing their calculus, which was a new thing at the time of publishing this theory. Newton saw clearly the defects of it, and makes no uie of any part of it in his subsequent discussions, and plainly has used it merely as an introduction, in order to give some gene-ral notions in a snbject quite new, and to give a demon* stration of one leading truth, viz. the proportion- ility of the impulfions to the squares of the velocities, while we prosess the highest respect for the talents and labours of the great mathematicians who have followed New-ton in this most difficult refearch, we cannot help being sorry that some of the greatest of them continued to attach themselves to a theory which he neglected, mere-ly because it afforded an opportunity of displaying their profound knowledge of the new calculus, of which they were willing to afcribe the discovery to Leibnitz. It has been in a great measure owing to this that we have been so late in discovering our ignorance of the subject. Newton had himself pointed out all the defects of this theory ; and he set himself to work to discover another which sholftd be more conformable to the nature of things, retaining only such deductions srom the other as his great sagacity affured him would stand the test os experiment. Even in this he seems to have been mistaken by his followers. He retained the proportionality of the resistance to the square os the velocity. This they have endeavoured to demonstrate in a manner conformable to Newton’s determination of the oblique impulses of fluids ; and under the cover of the agreement of this proposition with experiment, they in* troduced into mechanics a mode of expreffion, and even os conception, which is inconsistent with all accurate notions on thesc subjects. Newton’s propofition was, that the motions communicated to the fluid, and therefore the motions lost by the body, in equal times, were as the squares of the velocities ; and he conceived these as proper measures of the resistances. It is a matter of experience, that the forces or pressures by which a body must be supported in oppoiition to the impulses of fluids, are in this very proportion. In determining the
proportion
of
the direct and oblique refistances of plane fursaces, he considers the refistances to arise from mutual collisions of the furface and fluid, repeated at intervals of time too fmall to be perceived. But in making this comparison, he has no occasion whatever to consi. der this
repetition ;
and when he assigns the proportion between the resiftance of a cone and of its base, he, in fact, assigns the proportion between two
fimultaneous 
and inftantaneous impulses. But the mathematicians who followed him have considered this repetition as equivalent to an augmentation of the initial or sirft im-pulse ; and in this way have attempted to demonftrate that the resistances are as the squares of the velocities, when the velocity is double, each impulse is double, and the number in a given time is double ; therefore, say they, the resistance, and the force which will with-stand it, is quadruple ; and observation confirms their deduction : yet nothing is more gratuitous and illogi-cal. It is very true that the refistance, conceived as Newton conceives it, the loss of motion sustained by a body moving in the fluid, is quadruple ; but the shstan-taneous impulse, and the force which can withstand it, is, by all the laws of mechanics, only double, wha tis the force which can withstand a double impulse ? Nothing but a double impulse. Nothing but impulse can be opposed to impulse ; and it is a gross misconception to think of stating any kind of comparison between im-pulse and preffure. It is this which has given rise to much jargon and false reasoning about the force of percussion. This is stated as infinitely greater than any preffure, and as equivalent to a preffure infinitely repeated. It forced the abettors of these doctrines at last to deny the existence of all preffures whatever, and to affert that all motion, and tendency to motion, was the result of impulse. The celebrated Euler, perhaps the first mathematician, and the lowest philosopher, of this century, fays, “ since motion and impulfe are seen to exist, and fince we see that by means of motion pres-sure may be produced, as when a body in motion strikes another, or as when a body moving in a curved channel preffes upon it, merely in consequence of its curvilineal motion, and the exertion of a centrifugal force ; and fince Nature is most wifely economical in all her operations; it is absurd to suppose that preffure, or tendency to motion, has any other origin ; and it is the business of a philosopher to discover by what motions any observed preffure is produced.” whenever any preffure is ob-ferved, iuch as the preffure of gravity, of magnetism, of electricity, of condensed air, nay, of a spri'ng, and of elasticity and cohefιon themselves, however difparate, nay, opposite, the philosopher muft immediately cast about, and contrive a set of motions (creating
pro re natd
the movers) which will produce a preffure like the one observed. Having pleased his fancy with this, he cries out ⅛"** “ this
will produce
the preffure;”
et frujlra fit per ρlura quod fieri potefi per pauciora, ii
therefore in this way the preffure
is
produced.” Thus the vortices of Descartes are brought back in triumph, and have produced vortices without number, which fill the universe with motion and preffure.
Such bold attempts to overturn long-received doc-trines in mechanics, could not be received without much criticism and oppofition ; and many able differtations appeared from time to time in defence of the common doctrines. In consequence of the many objections to 
the comparison of pure
preffure with
pure percuffion 
or impulse, John Bernoulli and others were at laft obli-ged to affert that there were
no
perfectly hard bodies in nature, nor could be, but that all bodies were elastic ; and that in the communication of motion by percussion, the velocities of both bodies were
gradually
changed by their mutual elasticity acting during the finite but imperceptible time of the collifion. This was, in fact, giving up the whole argument, and banishing percus-fion, while their aim was to get rid of preffure. For what is elafticity but a preffure ? and how shall
it
be produced ? To act in this instance, must it arise from a still smaller impulse ? But this will require another ela-fticity, and so on without end.
These are all legitimate consequences of this attempt to state a comparison between percussion and preffure. Numberless experiments have been made to confirm the statement ; and there is hardly an itinerant-lecturing showman who does not exhibit among his apparatus Gravesande’s machine (V0I. I. plate xxxv. fig. 4). But nothing affords so specious an argument as the ex-perimented proportionality of the impulse of fluids to the square os the velocity. Here is every appearance of the accumulation of an instnity of minute impulses, in the known ratio of the velocity, each to each, pro-ducing preffures which are in the ratio of the squares of the velocities.
The preffures are observed ; but the impulses or per-cussions, whose accumulation produces these preffures, are only supposed. The rare fluid, introduced by New-ton for the purpose already mentioned, either does not exist in nature, or does not act in the manner we have said, the particles making their impulse, and then escaping through among the rest without affecting their motion. we cannot indeed say what may be the proportion between the diameter and the diftance of the particles. The firft may be incomparably smaller than the second, even in mercury, the densest fluid which we are familiarly acquainted with ; but although they do not touch each other, they act. nearly as if they did, in consequence of their mutual attractions and repulfions, we have seen air a thousand times rarer in some experi-ments than in others, and therefore the distance of the particles at least ten times greater than their diameters ; and yet, in this rare state, it propagates all presthres or impulses made on any part of it to a great distance, almoft in an inftant. It cannot be, therefore, that fluids act on bodies by impulse. It is very possible to conceive a fluid advancing with a flat iurface against the flat surface of a solid. The very first and iuperficial particles may make an impulse ; and if they were annihi-lated, the next might do the same : and if the velocity were double, these impulses would be double, and would be withstood by a double force, and not a quadruple, a& is observed : and this very circumstance, that a qua-druple force is neceffary, should have made us conclude that it was not to impulse that this force was opposed. The first particles having made their stroke, and not be-ing annihilated, must escape laterally. In their efca-ping, they effectually prevent every farther impulse, becaufe they come in the way of thofe filaments which would have struck the body. The whole process teems to be somewhat as follows :
when the flat surface of the fluid has come into con-tact with the plane surface AD (fig, 6.), perpendicular
to the direction DC of their motion, they must deflect to both sides equally, and in equal portions, because no reason can be affigned why more should go to either side. By this means the filament EF, which would have struck the surface in G, is deflected
before it arrives at
the surface, and describes a curved path EFIHK, continuing its rectilineal motion to I, where it is inter-cepted by a filament immediately adjoining to EF, on the fide of the middle filament DC. The different particles of DC may be supposed to impinge in fuccession at C, and to be deflected at right angles ; and gliding along CB, to escape at B. Each filament in succession, outwards from DC, is deflected in its turn ; and being hindered from even touching the surface C B, it glides off in a direction parallel to it ; and thus EF is deflected in I, moves parallel to CB from Ito H, and is again deflected at right angles, and describes H K parallel to DC. The same thing may be supposed to happen on the other side of DC.
And thus it would appear, that except two filaments immediately adjoining to the line DC, which bifects the surface at right angles, no part of the fluid makes any impulse on the furface AB. All the other filaments are merely preffed against it by the lateral filaments without them, which they turn aside, and prevent from striking the surface.
In like manner, when the fluid strikes the edge of a prism or wedge ACB (fig. 7.), it cannot be said-that any real impulfe is made. Nothing hinders us from fupposing C a mathematical angle or indivisible point, not fufceptibiè of any impulse, and serving merely to di-vide the stream. Each filament EF is effectually pre-vented from impinging at G in the line of its. direction, and with the obliquity of incidence EGC, by the filaments between EF and DC, which glide along the furface CA ; and it may be supposed to be deflected when it comes to the line CF which bifects the angle DCA, and again deflected and rendered parallel to D C at I. The lame thing happens on the other side of DC ; and we cannot in this case affert that there is any impulse.
we now see plainly how the ordinary theory must be totally unfit for furnishing principles of naval architec-ture, even although a formula could be deduced from fueh a feri.es of experiments as those. of the French Aca-demy. Although we should know precisely the im-pulse, or, to speak now more cautiously, the action, of the fluid on a furface G L (fig8.) of any obliquity, when it is alone, detached from all others, we cannot' in the smallest degree tell what will be the action of 
part
of a stream of stuid advancing towards it, with the fame obliquity, when it is preceded by an adjoining fur-face CG, having a different inclination ; for the stuid will not glide along G L in the same manner as if it made part of a more extenfive furface having the same inclination. The previous deflexions are extremely different in these two cases ; and the previous deflections are the only changes which we can observe in the motions of the fluid, and the only causes of that pfeffure which we obferve the body to sustain* and which we call the impulfe on it. This theory must, therefore, be quite unfit for afcertaining the action on a curved furface, which may be confidered as made up of an indesi-n∙ite number of successive planes.
We now feewit⅛ equal evidence how it happens that
the action of fluids
on
solid bodies may and must be opposed by preffures, and may be compared with and mea-sured by the preffure of gravity, we are not compa-ring forces of different kinds> percussions with-preffwesj but preffures with each other. Let us see whether this view of the subject will afford us any method ol comparison or absolute meafurement.
when a filament cf fluid, that is, a row- of corpuscles, are turned out of their course EF (sig. 6. ), and forced to take another course IH, force is required to produce this change of direction. The filament is prevented from proceeding by other filaments which lie between it and the body, and which deflect it in the same manner as if it were contained in a bended tube, and it will prefs on the concave filament next to it as it would prefs on the concave side of the tube. Suppose such a bend-ed tube ABE (sig. 9.), and that a ball A is projected along it with any velocity, and moves in it without fric∙ tron : it is demonftrated, in elementary mechanics, that the ball will move with undiminilhed velocity, and will press on every point, fuch as B, of the concave side of the tube, in a direction BF perpendicular to the plane CBD, which touches the tube in the point B* This preffure on the adjoining filament, on the concave side of its path, must be withstood by that filament which deflects it ; and it must be propagated aeross that Alarment to the next, and thus augment the preffure upon that next filament already preffed by the deflection of the intermediate filament and thus there is a preffure towards the middle filament, and towards the body, ari-sing from the deflection of all the outer filaments ; and their accumulated sum must be conceived as immediate* ly exerted on the middle filaments and on the body, be* cause a perfect siuid transmits every preffure undimi» nished.
The preffure BF is equivalent to the two BH, BG, one of which is· perpendicular, and. tlie other parallel, to the direction, of the original motion. By the sirst (taken in any point of the curvilineal motion of any filament), the two halves of the stream are preffed together ; and in the case of sig. 6. and 7. exactly balance each other.. But the preffures, such as BG, must be ultimately withstood by the surface ACB ; and it is by these accumulated preffures that the solid body is urged down the stream ;.and it is these accumulated preffures which we observe and meafure in our experiments. WC shall anticipate a little, and say that ibis most easily de-monstrated, that when a ball A (sig. 9. ) moves with un-diminished velocity in a tube so incurvated that its axis at E is at right angles to its axis at A, the accumulated action of the preii’ures, such as< B G-, taken for every point of the path, is precisely equal to the force which would produce or extinguish the original motion.
This being the case, it follows most obvioufly, that if the. two motions os the filaments are such as we have de-scribed and represented by fig. 6. the whole preffure in the direction of the stream, that is, the whole preffure which can be observed on the surface, is equal to the weight of a column of fluid having the sarface for its base, and twice the fall productive of the velocity for its height, pre-cisely as Newtcn deduced it from other considerations ; and it feems to make no odds whether the fluid be elas-tic or unelastic, if the deflections and velocities are the 
fame. Now it
is
a fact, that n© difference in
this re-
spect can be
observed in the actions of air and water ; and this had always appeared a great defect in Newton’s theory : but it was only a defect of the theory attributed to him. But it is also true, that the observed action is but one-half of what is juft now deduced srom this improved view of the subject. whence arifes this difference ? The reafon is this : we have given a very erroneous account of the motions of the filaments. A filament Έ F does not move as represented in sig. 6. with two rectangular inflexions at I and at H, and a path IH between them parallel to C B. The process of na-ture is more like what is represented in sig. io.
It is obfirved,
that at the anterior part of the body A B, there remains a quantity of fluid AD B, almoft, if not alto-gether, ftagnant, of a singular shape, having two curved concave sides A
a
D, B
b
D, along which the middle filaments glide. This fluid is very {lowly changed.— The late Sir Charles Knowles, an officer of the British navy, equally eminent for his fcientisic professional knowledge and for his military talents, made many beautiful experiments for asceitaining the paths of the filaments of water. At a diftance up the ftream, he allowed small jets of à coloured siuid, which did not mix with water, to make part of the ftream ; and the experiments were made in troughs with sides and bottom of plate-glass. A small taper was placed at a consider-able height above, by which the shadows of the colour-ed filaments were moft distinctly projected on a white plane held below the trough, fo that they were accu-rately drawn with a pencil. A few important parti-eulars may be here mentioned.
The ftill water ADC lafted for a long while be-fore it was renewed ; and it seemed to be gradually wafted by abrasion, by the adhesion of the surrounding water, which gradually licked away the outer parts from D to A and B ; and it seemed to renew itself in the direction CD, opposite to the motion of the ftream. There was, however, a considerable intricacy and eddy in this motion. Some (seemingly supersicial) water was continually, but siowly, flowing outward from the line DC, while other water was feen within and below it, coming inwards and going backwards.
The coloured lateral filaments were moft conftant in their form, while the body was the fame, although the ve-locity was in idrne cases quadrupled. Any change which this produced seemed confined to the supersicial filaments.
As the filaments were deflected, they were also con-ftipated, that is, the curved parts of the filaments were nearer each other than the parallel ftraight filaments up the ftream ; and this conftipation was more considerable as the. prow was more obtuse and the deflexion greater.
The inner filaments were ultimately more deflected than those without them.; that is, if a line be drawn touching the curve EFIH in the point H of contrary flexure, wherc the concavity begins to be on the side next the body, the angle HKC, contained between the axis and this tangent line, is so much the greater as the filament is nearer the axis.
when the body expofed to the ftream was a box of upright sides, flat bottom, and angular prow, like a wedge, having its edge alfo upright, the filaments were not all deflected laterally, as theory would make us expect ; but the filaments near the bottom were also deflected downwards as well as laterally, and glided alon^
at some diftance under the bottom, forming lines of double curvature.
1 he breadth of the ftream that was deflected was much greater than that of the body ; and the sensible deflection begun at a considerable diftance up the ftream, especially in the outer filaments.
Lasily, the form of the curves was greatly influenced by the proportion between the width of the trough and that of the body. The curvature was always less when the trough was very wide in proportion to the body.
Great varieties were also obferved in the motion or velocity of the filaments. In general, the filaments increased in velocity outwards from the body to a certain small diftance, which was nearly the same in all cases, and then diminished all the way outward. This was obferved by inequalities in the colour of the filaments,
hγ
which one could be observed to outftrip an-other. I he retardation of those next the body seemed to proceed from friction; and it was imagined that without this the velocity there would always have been greateft.
I hese observations give us considerable information respectshg the mechanism of these motions, and the action of fluids upon solids. The preffure in the duplicate ratio of the velocities comes here agqin into view, we found, that although the velocities were very different, the curves were precisely the same. Now the obferved preffures arife from the transverse forces by which each particle of a filament is retained in its curvilineal path ; and we know that the force by which a body is retain-ed in any curve is directly as the fquare of the velocity, and inversely as the radius of curvature. The curvature, therefore, remaining the same, the transverse forces, and consequently the preffure on the body, muft be as the square of the velocity : and, on the other hand, we can see pretty clearly (indeed it is rigorously demonstrated by D Alembert), that whatever be the velocities, the curves
wit/
be the same. For it is known in hydraulics, that it requires a fourfold or ninefold preffure to pro-duce a double or triple velocity. And as all preffures are propagated through a perfect fluid without diminution, this fourfold preffure, while it produces a double velocity,. produces alio fourfold transverse preffures, which wisl retain the particles, moving twice as fast, in the same curvilineal paths. And thus we see that the impulses, as they are called, and resistances of fluids, haye a certain relation to the weight of a column of fluid, whofe height is the height neceslary for producing the velocity. . How it happens that a plane surface, im-mersed in an extended fluid, sustains just half the pref-sure which it would have sustained had the motions been such as are sketched in figure 6th, is a matter of more curious and difficult investigation. But we fee evidently that the preffure must be less than what is there affigned; for the stagnant water a-head of the body greatly di-mimshes the ultimate deflections of the filaments : And it may be demonstrated, that when the part BE of the
canal, sig. 9. is inclined to the part AB in an angle less than 900 , the preffures B G along the whole canal are as the versed fine of the ultimate angle os deflection, or the versed fine of the angle which the part BE makes with the part AB. Therefore, since the deflexions re-semble more the sketch given in sig. 1 o. the accumulated sum of all these forces BG of sig. 9. must be lefs than the similar sum corresponding to sig. 6. that is, less than
O
2
the weight of the column of fluid, having twice the productive height for its height. How it is juft one-half, ihall be our next inquiry.
And here we must return to the labours of Sir Isaac Newton. After many beautiful observations on the na-ture and mechanifm of continued fluids, he says, that the resiftance which they occasion is but one-half of that occasioned by the rare fluid which had been the subject of his former proposition ; " which truth,” (says he, with his usual caution andmυdefty), " I ihall endeavour to {how.”
He then enters into another, as novel and as difficult an inveftigation, viz. the laws of hydraulics, and endeavours to ascertain the motion of fluids through orifices when urged by preffures of any kind. He endeavours to afoertain the velocity with which a siuid escapes through a horizontal orisice in the bottom of a vessel, by the action of its weight, and the pressure which this vein of fluid will exert on a little circle which occupies part of the orisice. To obtain this, he employs a kind of approximation and trial, of which it would be extremely difficult to give an extract ; and then, by increafing the diameter os the vesscl and oi the hole to infinity, he accommodates his reasoning to the case of a plane surface expofed to an indesinitely extended ftream of fluid; and laftly, giving to the little circular furface-the motion which he had before ascrshed to the fluid, he fays, that the resiftance to a plane surface -moving through au unelaftic continuous fluid, is equal to the weight of
a
column of the siuid whose height is one-half of that necessary for acquiring the velocity ; and he says, that· the resistance of a globe is, in this case, the same with that of a cylinder of the same diameter. The resissance, therefore, of the cylinder or circle is four times less,’ and that of the globe is twice less than their resistances on a rare elastic medium.
But this determination, though founded on principles or assumptions, which are much nearer to the real Hate of things, is liable to great objections. It depends on his method for afcertaining the velocity of the issuing fluid ; a method extremely ingenious, but defective. The cataract, which he supposes, cannot ex-ift as he supposes, descending by the full action off gravity, and surrounded by a funnel of ftagnant fluid. For, in such circumftances, there is nothing to balance the hydrostatical pressure of this surrounding fluid ; be-cause the whole pressure of the central cataract is exn-ployed in producing its own descent. In the next place, the pressure which he determines is beyond all doubt only half of what is observed on a plane surface in all our experiments. And, in the third place, it is repugnant to all our experience, that the resiftance of 
sl
globe or of a pointed body is as great as that of its circular base. His reafons are by no means convincing. He supposes them placed in a tube or canal ; and since they are supposed of the same diameter, and therefore leave equal spaces at their sides, he concludes, that be-cause the water escapes by their sides with the same
velocity,
they will have the same resistance. But this is by no means a neeessary consequence. Even if the water ssiould be allowed to exert equal pressures on them, the pressures being perpendicular to their surfaces, and these surfaces being inclined to the axis, while in the case of the base of a cylinder it is in 
tl⅜e
direction of the axis, there must be a difference in
the accumulated or compound pressure in the direction of the axis. He indeed says, that in the case of the cylinder or the circle obstructing the canal, a quantity of water remains stagnant on its upper surface ; viz. all the water whose motion would not contribute to the most ready passage of the siuid between the cy-liuder and the sides of the canal or tube ; and that this water may be considered as frozen. If this be the case, it is indifferent what is the form of the body that is covered with this mass of frozen or stagnant water. It may be a bemisphere or a cone ; the resistance will be the same. -But Newton by no means assigns, ei-ther with precision or with distinct evidence, the form and magnitude of this stagnant water, so as to give con-sidence in the results. He contents himself with iay-ing, that it is that water whose motion is not necessary or cannot contribute to the most easy passage of the water.
i here remains, therefore, many imperfections in this theory. But notwithstanding these defects, we cannot but admire the efforts and sagacity of this great philosopher, who, after having difcovered so many sublime truths of mechanical nature, ventured to trace out a path for the folution of a pr⅛blem which no person had yet attempted to bring within the range of mathematical investigation. And his folution, though inac-curate, ihines throughout with that inventive genius and that fertility of refource, which no man ever pos-sessed in so eminent a degree.
Tlrose who have attacked the folution of Sir Isaac Newton have not been more successful. Most of them, instead of principles, have given a great deal of calculus’; and the chief merit which any of them can claim, is that of having deduced some single proposition whiclt. happens to quadrate with fome l - single case of experiment, while their general theories are either inapplicable, from difficulty and obfcurity, or are discordant with more general obfervation.
we must, however, except from this number Daniel Bernoulli, who was not only a great geometer, but one of the sirst philosophers of the age. He possessed all the talents, and was free from the faults of that celebrated family ; and while he was the mathematician of Europe who penetrated farthest in the inveftigation of this great problem, he was the only perfon who felt, or at least who acknowledged, its great difficulty.
In the 2d volume of the
Comment. Petropol.
1727, he proposes a formula for the resistance of fluids, de-duced from considerations quite different from those on which Newton founded his folution. But he delivers it with modest diffidence; because he found that it gave a resistance four times greater than experiment. In the same differtation he determines the resistance of a sphere to be one half of that of its great circle. But in his subiequent theory . of Hydrodynamics (a work which must ever rank among the sirst productions of the age, and is equally eminent for refined and elegant mathematics, and ingenious and original thoughts in dynamics), he calls this determination in question. It is indeed founded on the fame hypothetical principles which have been unskilfully detached from the rest of Newton’s physics, and made the ground-work of all the subsequent theories on this subject.
In 1741 Mr Daniel Bernoulli published another dis-
fèrtation (in the
8th volume of
the
Com. Petropol.}
on the action and resiftance of fluids, limited to a very particular case ; namely, to the impulfe of a vein of fluid falling perpendicularly on an infinitely extended plane surface. This he demonsirates to be equal to the weight of a column ot the fluid whose base is the area os the vein, and whose height is twice the fall producing the velocity. Tins demonftration is drawn front the true principles of mechanics and the acknowledged laws of hydraulics, and may be received as a strict phy-flcal demonftration. As it is the only propofition in the whole theory that has as yet received a demonftration accessible to readers not verfant in all the refinement of modern analyfis·; and as the principles on which it pro-ceeds will undoubtedly lead to a folution of every pro-blem which can be propoled, once that our mathemati-cal knowledge ssiall enable us to apply them—we think it our duty to give it in this place, although we must acknowledge, that this problem is so very limited, that, it will hardly bear an applicatiαn to any case that dif
fers but a little from the express conditions of the pro-blem. 1 here do occur cases however in practice, where it may be applied to very great advantage.
Daniel Bernoulli gives two demonstrations ; one of which may be called a popular one, and the other is more fcientil∣c and introductory to further inveft⅛ιtion. we ssiall give both.
Bernoulli first determines the whole action exerted m the efflux of the vein of fluid. Suppofe the velocity of efflux
v
is that which would be acquired by falling through the height
h.
It is well known that a body moving during the time of this fall with the velocity
v 
would describe a space 2
h.
The effect, therefore, of the hydraulic action is, that in the time
t
of the fall
h, 
there iffues a cylinder or prifrn of water whose base is the cross lection
J
or area of the vein, and whofe length is 2∕>. And this quantity of matter is now moving with the velocity τ>. The quantity of motion, therefore, which is thus produced is 2
s hν ;
and this quantity of motion is produced in the time Λ And this is the ac-cumulated effect of all the expelling forces, estimated in. the direction of the efflux. Now, to compare this with trie exertion oi some pressing power with which we. are familiarly acquainted, let us fuppose this pillar 2
s h
to be frozen, and, being held in the hand, to be dropped. It is well known, that in the time
t
it will fall through the height Z>, and will acquire the velocity
v,
and now poffesses the quantity of motion 2
s h ∙υ_
and all this is the effect of its weight. The weight, theιefore, of the pillar 2
s h
produces the same effect, and in the same time, and (as may eahly be seen j in the fame .gιadual manner, with the expelling forces of the fluid in the veffel, which expelling forces arise from the preffure of all the fluid in the veffel. Therefore the accumulated hydraulic preffure, by which a vein of a heavy fluid is forced out through an orifice in the bottom or fide oi a veffel, is equal (when estimated in thedirec-ι∙ion of the efflux) to the weight of a column of the fluid, having for its base the lection of the vein, and twice the fall productive of the velocity of efflux for its height.
Now let ABDC (fig. 11.) be a quadrangular veffel v. ιth upιight plane fides, in one of which is an orifice EF. From every point of the circumference of this
orifice, suppose horizontal lines Ef, F∕,
&c. which will
mark a fimilar surface on the oppofite fide of the veffel. Suppose the orifice EF to be ssiut. There can be no doubt but that the surfaces EF and
ef
will be equally preffed in oppofite directions. Now open the orifice EF ; the water will rush out, and the preffure on EF is now removed. There will therefore be a tendency in the veffel to move back in the direction E
e.
And this tendency mnst be precisely equal and oppofite to the whole effort of the expelling forces. This is a conclu-lion as evident as any propofition in mechanics. It is thus that a gun recoils and a rocket rises in the air; and on this is founded the operation of Mr Parents or Dr Barker’s mill, defcribed in all treatises of mechanics, and most learnedly treated by Euler in the Berlin Memoirs.
Now, let this stream of water be received on a circular plane MN, perpendicular to its axis, and let this circular plane be of such extent, that the vein escapes from its fides in an infinitely thin ssieet, the water flowing off in a direction parallel to the plane. The vein by this means will expand into a trumpet-like ssiape, having curved fides, EKG,FLH. we abftract at pre-sent the action of gravity which would cause the vein to bend downwards, and occafion a greater velocity at II than at G ; and we fuppose the velocity equal in every point of the circumference. It is plain, that if the action of gravity be neglected after the water has iffued through the orifice EF, the velocity in every point of the circumference of the plane MN will be that of the efflux through EF.
Now, because EKG is the natural ssiape affirmed by the vein, it is plain, that if the whole vein were covered by a tube or mouth-piece, fitted to its ihape, and perfectly polished, so that the water ssiall glide along it, without any friction (a thing which we may always iuppoie), the water will exert no preffure whatever on this trumpet mouth-piece. Laftly, let us suppose that the plane MN is attached to the mouth-piece by some bits of wire, lo as to allow the water to escape all round ∙ by the narrow chink between the mouth-piece and the plane : We have now a veffel confisting of the upright
Kab ,dc,
the tr.um Pet GKEFLH, and the plane MN ; and the water is escaping from every point os the circumference of the chink GHNM with the velocity 
ν.
If any part of this chink were ssiut up, there would be a preffure on that part equivalent to the force of efflux from the oppofite parr. Therefore, when all is o pe∏, thete efforts oi efflux balance each other all round.
1    here is not therefore any tendency in this compound veffel to move to any fide. . But take away the plane MN, and there would immediately arise a preffure in the direction E
e
equal to the weight of the column
2    j /?. This is therefore balanced by the preffure on the circular plane MN, which is therefore equal to this weight, and the propofition is demonstrated. "
A number of experiments were made by Profeffor Kraft at St Petershurg, by receiving the vein on a plane 
MN (hg.
ii.)
which was fastened to the arm of a balance    having a scale R hanging on the oppofite
arm. I he refistance or preffure on the plane was mea-iùred by weights put into the scale R; and the velocity of the jet was measured by means of the distance KR, to which it· fpouted on a horizontal' plane.
The results of these experiments were as-conformable to the theory as could be wished. The resistance was always a little less than wshat the theory required, but greatly exceeded its half ; the result of the generally re-ceived theories. This defcct should be expected ; for the demonstration supposes· the plane MN to be infinitely extended, fo that the film of water which iffues through the chink may be accurately parallel to the plane. This never can be completely effected. Also it was supposed, that the velocity was justly measured by the amplitude of the parabola EGK. But it is well known that the. very putting the plane MN in the way of the jet, though at the distance of an inch from the orifice, will diminish the velocity, of the efflux through this orifice. This is easily verified by experiment, 05-ferve the time in which the vessel will be emptied when there is no plane in the way. Repeat the experiment .with the plane in its place ; and more time will be ne-cessary. The following is a note of a course of ex-periments, taken as they stand, without any selection.
No i »    3    4    5    6
Refill, by theory    1701    1720    165 r    ι6oa    1528    107»
<Refiih by experiment
1403    1463    1486    140t    1403    ιo¾ι
Difference    
ay 8    45 7    165    201    ιaj
51
In order to demonstrate this propofition in such a manner as to furnish the means of investigating the jwhole mechanism and action of moving fluids, it is neceffary to premife an elementary theorem of curvilineal motions.
If .a particle of matter describes a curve line ABCE (fig. 13∙) by the continual action of deflecting forces, which vary in any manner, both with respect to inten-fity and direction, and if the action of thfese forces, in .every point of the curve, be resolved into two directions, perpendicular and parallel to the initial direction AK; then,
i. The accumulated effect of the deflecting forces, estimated in a direction AD perpendicular to AK, is to the final quantity of motion as the fine of the final change of direction is to radius.
Let us sirst fuppofe that the accelerating forces act by starts, at equal intervals of time, when the body is in the points A, B, C, E. And let AN be the de-flecting force, which, acting at A, changes the origi-nal direction AK to AB. Produce AB till BH= AB, and complete the parallelogram BFCH. Then FB is the force which, by acting at B, changed the motion BH (the continuation of AB) to BC. In like manner make
Ch
(in BC produced) equal to BC, and complete the parallelogram C/EÂ
Cs
is the deflecting force at C, &c. Draw BO parallel to AN, and GBK perpendicular to AK. Also draw lines through C and E perpendicular to AK, and draw through B and C lines parallel to AK. Draw also HL,
h∕
per-pendicular, and FG, HI,
hi,
parallel to AK.
It is plain that BK is BO or AN estimated in the direction perpendicular to AK, and that BG is BF estimated in the same way. And fince BH = AB, HL or IM is equal to BK. Also CI is equal to BG. Therefore CM is equal to AP+BG. By similar rea-scning it appears that E∕w = Ez-f-Z>∕,=∑C⅛r 4-CM, = C^~f-BG, st-AP.
Therefore if CE be taken for the measure of the final velocity or quantity of motion, Em will be the accumulated effect of the deflecting forces estimated in 
the direction
AD perpendicular
to AK. But
Em
is
to CE as the fine
of mCE
is to radius; and the angle wCE is the angle contained between the initial and final directions, because
Cm
is parallel to AK. Now let the intervals of time diminish continually and the frequency of the impulses increase. The deflection be-eomes ultimately continuous, and the motion curvili* iieal, and the propofition is demonfl rated.
we see that the initial velocity and its subsequent changes do not affect the conclufion, which depends entirely on the final quantity of motion.
2.
The accumulated effect of the accelerating forces, when estimated in the direction AK of the original motion, or in the oppofite direction, is equal to the difference between the initial quantity of motion and the product of the final quantity of motion by the cofine of the change of direction.
For Cmr=C
I— rn l,
=BM—
-sq
BM=BL-ML,=AK- FG 
AK=Ao-oK,~Ao-
PN.
Therefore PN+FG+∕Qj(the accumulated impulfe in the direction ΟΑ)~ ΑΟ—CM, —AO—CE× coi fine of ECM.
Cor.
I. The same action, in the direction oppofite to that of the original motion, is neceffary for caufing a body to move at right angles to its former direction as for stopping its motion. For in this case, the co-fine of the change of direction is
— 0,
and A Ο—CE ×cofine ECM=Ao—ο, “ΑΟ, = the original motion.
Cor. 2.
If the initial and final velocities are the same, the accumulated action of the accelerating forces, esti-mated in the direction OA, is equal to the product of the original quantity of motion by the versed fine of the change of direction.
The application of these theorems, particularly the second, to our present purpose is very obvious. All the filaments of the jet were originally moving in the direction of its axis, and they are finally moving along the resisting plane, or perpendicular to their former motion. Therefore their transverse forces in the direction of th<s axis are
(in cumulo)
equal to the force which would stop the motion. For the aggregate of the simulta-neous forces of every particle in the whole filament is the same with that of the successive forces of one particle, as it arrives at different points of its curvineal path. All the transverse forces, estimated in a direction per-pendicular to the axis of the vein, precisely balance and sustain each other; and the only forces which can pro-duce a senstble effect are those in a direction parallel to the axis. By these all the inner filaments are pressed towards the plane MN, and must be withstood by it. It is highly probable, nay certain, that there is a quantity of stagnant water in the middle of the vein which sustains the preffures of the moving filaments without it, and transmits it to the solid plane. But this does not alter the case. And, fortunately^ it is of no consequence what changes happen in the velocities of the particles while each is describing its own curve. And it is from this circumstance, peculiar to this particular case of per-peudicular impulse, that we are able to draw the con-clufion. It is by no means difficult to demonstrate that the velocity of the external surface of this jet is con-stant, and indeed of every jet which is not acted on by external forces after it has quitted the orifice : but this discussion is quite unneceffary here. It is however extremely difficult to ascertain, even in this most fimp, e
case, what is the velocity of the internal fiîaments in
the different points of their progress.
Such is the dtmonstration which Mr Bernouilli has given of this propofition. Limited as it is, it is highly valuable, because derived from the true principles of 
hydraulics.
He hoped to render it more extenfive and applicable to oblique impulfes, when the axis AC of the vein (fig. 13. n0 2.) is inclined to the plane in an angle ACN. But here all the simplicity of the case is gone, and we are now obliged to ascertain the motion of each filament. It might not perhaps be impossible to determine what must happen in the plane of the figure, that is, in a plane passing through the axis of the vein, and perpendicular to the plane MN. Bat even in this cafe it would be extremely difficult to determine how much of the fluid will go in the direction EKG, and what will go in the path FLH, and to ascertain the form of each filament, and the velocity in its different points. But in the real state of the case, the water will diffipate from the centre C on every side ; and we cannot tell in what proportions. Let us however eon-sider a little what happens in the plane of the figure, and suppofe that all the water goes either in the course EKG or in the course FLH. Let the quantities of water which take these two eourfes have the proportions of
p
aud π . Let
vz
2α be the velocity at A, 
fTb
be the velocity at G, and
*∕ 2 β
be the velocity at H. ACG and ACH are the two changes of di-rection, of which let
c
and —¢ be the cosines. Then, adopting the former reasoning, we have the pressure of the watery plate GKEACM on the plane in the di-
p--
rectιon AC = ~~— ×2
a—lc b,
and the preffure of the ? + n    < r
∏--
,ate HLFACN = —r—,×
2a
4-
2cβ,
and
their sum
pi _
∕+π
∕>×2a-2r5+∏×2a-t-2c^    .    .    1 . ,. ,.
= ----’ w h'c *1 being multiplied by
the fine of ACM or *∕ 1—c1 , gives the pressure perpendicular to the plane MN-    --—^~^^π
1_ ’ ∕+π
+ 2f∕3    .-r
But there remains a pressure in the direction- perpendicular to the axis of the veiu, which is not balanced, as in the former case, by the equality on oppofite sides ot the axis. The pressure. arising from the water which escapes at G has an effect opposite to that pro-duced by the water· which eseapes at H. when this is taken into account, we shall find that their joint ef-
r    ,∙    
P—π     ∕-
forts perpendicular to AC are-^ψpp×2av ι—which, being multiplied by the cofinç- of. ACM,- gives -the aβ-
. ,    p—∏ __
tion perpendicular to MN=—
~×2∏c∖I i-c2 .
P + τ ∖
The sum or joint effort of all thefe pressures· is
∕X2a-2^4-∏×2a+2^
p÷∏    ∕+rι
Thus, srom this case, which is much simpler than can happen in nature, teeing that there will always be a lateral efflux, the determination of the impulse is as uncertain and vague
as it was
sure and precise in the 
former cate.
It is therefore without proper authority that the abfolute impulse of a vein of fluid on a plane which re-ceives it wholly, is afferted to be proportional to the fine of incidence. If indeed we fuppose the velocity in G and H are equal to that at A, then
b-βt z=a,
and the whole impulse is 2aVz 1—<z , as is commonly sup-poted. But this cannot be. Both the velocity and quantity at H are less than thote at G. Nay, frequent-ly there is no efflux on the fide H when the obliquity is very great, we may conclude in general, that the oblique impulte will always bear to the direct impulse a greater proportion than that of the fine of incidence to radius. If the whole water escapes at G, and none goes off laterally, the pressure will be
2a+2ac—2bcX,
1 —Λ The experiments of the Abbé Bossut show in the plainest manner that the pressure of a vein, striking obliquely on a plane which receives it wholly, diminishes faster than in the ratio of the square of the fine of incidence ; whereas, when the oblique plane is wholly immerted in the stream, the impulfe is much greater than in this proportion, and in great obliquities is nearly as the fiue.
Nor will this proposition determine the impulfe of
a
fiuid on a plane wholly immerted in it, even when the impulfe is perpendicular to the plane. The circumstance is now wanting on which we can establish a calculation, namely, the angle of final deflection. Could this be afcertained for each filament, and the velocity of the filament, the principles are completely adequate to an accurate folution of the problem. In the experiments which we mentioned to have been made under the inspection of Sir Charles Knowles, a-cylinder of fix inches diameter was exposcd to the action of
a 
stream moving precitely one foot per second ; and when certain deductions were made for the water which was held adhering to the posterior base (as will be noticed afterwards), the impulte was found equal to 3∣ ounces avoirdupois. There were 36coloured filaments distributed on the stream, in fuch situations as to give the most ufefal indications of their curvature. If was found necessary to have some which passed under the body and some above it ; for the form of these filaments, at the same distance from the axis of the cylinder, was considerably. different : and those filaments which were situated in planes neither horizontal nor vertical took a double curvature» In short, the curves were ail’traced with great care, and the deflecting forces were computed for each, and reduced to the direction of the axis ; and they were snmrned up in such' a manner as to give the impuite of the whole stream. The deflections were marked as far a-head of the cylinder as they could be assuredly ob-served. By this method the impulse was computed to be 2J-¾∙ ounces,, differing from obtervation √δ - of an ounce, or about τ ⅛ of the whole; a difference which may most reasonably be afcribed to the adhesion of the water, which must be most senfible in such small velo-citiee. T∩ete experiments may therefore be confidered as giving all the confirmation that can be desired of the jiistnefs of the principles.· This indeed hardly admits of a doubt :, but, alas ! it gives us but fmall’assistance ; for all this is empirical, in as far as it leaves us in every case the task of observing the form of the curves and the velocities in their different points. To derive fer-vice from this most judicious method of Daniel Ber
noulli, we must discover feme method of
determining,-»
a
pmom,
what will be the motion of the fluid whose course is obstructed by a body of any form. And here we cannot omit taking notice of the casual ob-fervation of Sir Isaac Newton when attempting to de-termine the resistance of the plane surface or cylinder, or sphere expofed to a stream moving in a canal. He fays that the form of the resist ing surface is of less con-sequence, because there is always a quantity of water stagnant upon it, and which may therefore be consider-ed as frozen,; and he therefore considers that water only whose motion is neceffary for the most expedi-tious discharge of the water in the veffel. He endeavours to discriminate that water from the rest ; and although it must be acknowledged that the principle which he affumes for this purpose is very gratuitous, because it only shows that
is certain portions os the water,
which he determines very ingeniously, were really frozen, the rest will iffue as he says, and will exert the preffure which he assigns ; still we must admire his fertility of resource, and his sagacity in thus foreseeing what subsequent observation has completely confirmed, we are even disposed to think, that in this casual ob--servation Sir Isaac Newton has pointed out the only method of arriving at a folution of the problem ; and that if we could discover
what motions are not necessary sor the mοβ expeditious passage os the water,
and could thus determine the form and magnitude of the stagnant water which adheres to the body, we should much more easily ascertain the real motions which occasion the observed resistance. we are here disposed to have recourse to the economy of nature, the improper use of which we have sometimes taken the liberty of reprehend-jng. Mr Maupertuis published as a great discovery his principle of smallest action, where he showed that in all the mutual actions of bodies the quantity of action was a minimum ; and he applied this to the folution of many difficult problems with great success, ima-gining that he was really reasoning from a contingent law of nature, selected by its infinitely wise Author, viz. that in all occasions there is the smallest possible exertion of natural powers. Mr D’Alembert has, however, shown 
(vi&. Encyclopédie Françoifi,
Action) that this was but a whim, and that the minimum observed by Mau-pertuis is merely a minimum of calculus, peculiar to a formula which happens to express a combination of mathematical quantities which frequently occurs in our way of considering the phenomena of nature, but which is no natural measure of action.
But the chevalier D’Arcy has shown, that in the trains of natural operations which terminate in the pro-duction of motion in a particular direction, the interme-diate communications of motion are such that the small-est possible quantity of motion is produced, we seem obliged to conclude, that this law.will be observed in the present initance ; and it seems a problem not above our reach to determine the motions which result from it. we would recommend the problem to the eminent mathematicians in some simple case, such as the propo-sition already demonstrated by Daniel Bernoulli, or the perpendicular impulse on a cylinder included in a tubular canal ; and if they succeed in this, great things may be expected, we think that experience gives great encouragement, we see that the r£sisiance to a plane surface is a very small matter greater than the weight of a column of the fluid having the fall productive of
the velocity for its
height,
and the small excess is most probably owing to adhesion, and the measure of the real resistance is probably precisely this weight. The velocity os a spouting fluid was found, in fact, to be that acquired by falling from the surface of the fluid ; and it was by looking at this, as at a pole star, that Newton, Bernoulli, and others, have with great sagaci-ty and ingenuity discovered much of the laws of hy-draulics, by searching for principles which would give this result. we may hope for similar success.
In the mean time, we may receive this as a phyfical truth, that the perpendicular impulse or resistance of a plane sursace, wholly immersed in the fluid, is equal to the weight of the column haring the surface for its base, and the fall producing the velocity for its height.
This is the medium result of all experiments made in tbese precife circumftances. And it is confirmed by a set of experiments of a kind wholly different, and which feem to point it out more certainly as an im-mediate consequence of hydraulic principles.
If Mr Pitot’s tube be expofed to a stream of fluid iffuing from a reservoir or veffel, as represented in sig. 14. with the open mouth I pointed directly against the ftream, the fluid is observed to Hand at K in the upright tube, precisely on a level with the fluid AB in the reservoir. Here is a most unexceptionable experi-ment, in which the impulse of the stream is actually opposed to the hydrostatical preffure of the fluid on the tube. Preffure is in this case opposed to preffure, be-cause the iffuing fluid is deflected by what flays in the mouth of the tube, in the same way in which it would be deflected by a firm surface. we ssiall have occafion by and by to mention some most valuable and instruc-tive experiments made with this tube.
It was this which suggested to the great mathema-tician Euler another theory of thé impulse and resistance of fluids, which must not be omitted, as it is applied in his elaborate performance Οη the Theory of the Construction and working of Ships, in two vo-lumes 4to, which was afterwards abridged and used as
a 
text book in some marine academies. He fupposes a stream of fluid ABCD (fig. 15.), moving with any ve-locity, to strike the plane ËD perpendicularly, and that part of it goes through a hole EF, forming a jet EGHF. Mr Euler says, that the velocity of this jet will be the same with the velocity of the stream. Now compare this with an equal stream iffuing from a hole in the side of a veffel with the fame velocity. The one ftream is urged out by the preffure occasioned by the impulse of the fluid ; the other is urged out by the preffure of gravity. The effects are equal, and the modifying circumftances are the fame. The causes are therefore equal, and the preffure occasioned by the im-pulse of a stream of fluid, moving with any velocity, is equal to the weight of a column of fluid whose height is productive of this velocity, &c. He then determines the oblique impulse by the refolution of motion, and deduces the common rules of resistance, &c.
But all this is without just grounds. This gentle-man was always satissied with the slightest analogies which would give him. an opportunity of exhibiting his great dexterity in algebraic analysis, and was not afterwards llartled by any discordancy with observation. 
Analyfit magis fidendum
is a frequent affertion with him.
Though he wrote a large volume, containing
a
theory of light and colours totally opposite to Newton’s, he has published many differtations on optical phenomena on the Newtonian principles, expressly becaufe hi6 own principles
non ideo facile ansam prod ebat analyfi inftru-endœ.
Not a shadow of argument is given for the leading principle in this theory, t>z⅛. that the velocity of the jet is the same with the velocity of the stream. None can be given, but faying that the preffure is equivalent to its production ; and this is affirming the very thing he la-bours to prove. The matter of fact is, that the velocity of the jet is greater than that of the stream, and may be greater almost in any proportion, which curious circumstance was difcovered and ingeniously explained long ago by Daniel Bernoulli in his
Hydrodyna-mica.
It is evident that the velocity must be greater, were a stream of sand to come against the plane, what goes through would indeed preserve its velocity unchanged : but when a real siuid strikes the plane, all that does not pass through is deflected on all sides ; and by these deflections forces are excited, by which the filaments which surround the cylinder immediately fronting the hole are made to press this cylinder on all fides, and as it were squeeze it between them : and thus the particles at the hole must of necessity be accelerated, and the velocity of the jet must be greater than that of the stream. λVe are disposed to think that, in a fluid perfectly incompressible, the velocity will be doubled, or at least increafed in the proportion of ι to √L If the fluid is in the finallest degree compressible, even in the very small degree that water is, the velocity at the sirst impulse may be much greater. D. Bernoulli found that a column of water moving y feet per second, in a tube some hundred feet long, produced a velocity of 136 seet per fecond in the first moment.
There being this radical defect in the theory of Mr Euler, it is needless to take notice of its total insussi-ciency for explaining oblique impulsesand the refistance of curvilineal prows.
we are extremely sorry that our readers are deriving so little advantage from all that we have said ; and that having taken them by the hand, we are thus obliged to grope about, with only a few scattered rays of light to direct our steps. Let us see what assistance we can get from Mr d’Alembert, who has attempted a folution of this problem in a method entirely new and extremely ingenious. He saw clearly that all the followers of Newton had forsaken thc path which he had marked out for them in the second part of his investigation, and had merely amused themselves with the mathematical difcussions with which his introductory hypothefis gave them an opportunity of occupying themselves. He paid the deserved tribute os applause to Daniel Bernoulli for having introduced the notion of pure pressure as the chief agent in this bufiness ; and he saw that he was in the right road, and that it was from hydrostati-cal principles alone that we had any chance of explaining the phenomena of hydraulics. Bernoulli had only confidered the pressures which were excited in consequence of the curvilineal motions of the particles. Mr d’Alembert even thought that thefe pressures were not the consequences, but tlie caufes, of these curvilineal motions. No internal motion can happen in a fluid-blit in consequence of an unbalanced pressure ; and every
such motion will produce an inequality of preffure, which will determine the succeeding motions. He there-fore endeavoured to reduce all to the discovery of thofe disturbing pressures, and thus to the laws of hydrosta-tics. Fie had long before this hit on a very refined and ingenious view os the action of bodies on each other, which had enabled him to solve many of the most difficult problems concerning the motions of bodies, such as the centre of oscillation, of spentaneous conversion, the precession of the equinoxes, &c. &c. with great facility and elegance. He saw that the fame principle would apply to the action of fluid bodies. The principle is this.
" In whatever manner any number of bodies are suppofed to act on each other, and by these actions come to change their present motions, if we conceive that the motion which each body would have in the following infant ( if it became free), is refolved into two other motions ; one of which is the motion which it really takes in the following infant ; the other will be fuch, that is each body had no other motion but this second, the whole bodies would have remained in equilibria.” VIe
here observe, that " the motion which each body would have in the following instant, if it became free,” is a continuation of the motion which it has in the first instant. It may therefore perhaps be better expressed thus :
If the motions of bodies, anyhow acting on each other, be cοnfdered in two confecuùve irfants, and if we conceive the motion which it has in the frf infant as compounded of two others, one of which is the motion which it actually takes in the second infant, the other is sueh, that if each body had only those second motions, the whole fyfem would have remained in equilibrio.
The proposition itself is evident. For if these fe-cond motions be not such as that an equilibrium of thc whole syftem would result from them, the other component motions would not be those which the bodies really have after the change ; for they would necessari. ly be altered by these unbalanced motions. See D’A-lembert
IIffai de Dynamique.
Assisted by this incontestable principle, Mr d’Alem-bert demonstrates, in a manner equally new and fimple, thofe propofitions which Newton had so cautioufly deduced from his hypothetical fluid, showing that they were not limited to this hypothefis, *u∕z. that the motions produced by fimilar bodies, limilarly projected in them, would be fimilar ; that whatever were the pres-sures, the curves described by the particles would be the same ; and that the refistance3 would be proportional to the squares of the velocities. He then comes to confider the fluid as having its motions constrained by the form os the canal or by solid obstacles interposed.
we shall here give a summary account of his fundamental propofitioπ.
It is evident, that if the body ADCE (fig. 16.) did not form an obstruction to the motion of the water, the particles would describe parallel lines TF, OK, PS, &c. But while yet at a distance from the body in F, K, S, they gradually change their directions, and describe the curves FM, K
nι,
S
n,
fo much more incflrvated as they are nearer to the body. At a certain distance ZY this curvature will be insensible, and the fluid included in the fpace ZYHQjvill move uniformly as if the fo!id body were not there. The motions on the other fide oi the axis AC will be the same ; and we need only
attend to onc half, and we shall consider these as in a state of permanency.
No body changes either its direction or velocity otherwise than by insensible degrees : therefore the particle which is moving in the axis will not reach the vertex 
A
of the body, where it behoved to deflect instantane-ously at right angles. It will therefore begin to be de-flected at some point F a head of the body, and will de-scribe a curve FM, -touching the axis in F, and the body in M ; and then, gliding along the body, will quit it at some point L, describing a tangent curve, which will join the axis again (touching it) in R; and thus there will be a quantity of stagnant water FAM before or a head of the body, and another LCR behind ©r astern of it.
Let
a
be the velocity of a particle of the fluid in any instant, and
a'
its velocity in the next instant. The velocity
a
may be considered as compounded of ct and 
a".
If the particles tended to move with the velocities 
α, '
only, the whole fluid would be in equiiibrio (general principle), and the preffure of the fluid would be the fame as if all were itagnant, and each particle were urged by a force —,
t,
expressing an. indefinitely small 
β, '
moment of time.
(N. B. —
is the proper expression of
the accelerating force, which, by acting during the moment ∕∙, would generate the velocity λ"; and «" is supposed an indeterminate quantity, different perhaps for each particle). Now let
a
be suppofed constant, or 
a ~ ct.
In this case
d' — o.
That is to say, no pressure whatever will be exerted on the solid body unless there happen changes fin the velocities or directions of the particles.
Let
a
and a' then be the motions of the particles in two consecutive instants. They would be in equilibrio 
.    a"
if urged only by the forces —. Therefore if
y
be the
point where the particles which describe the curve FM begin to change their velocity, the preffure in D would be equal to the preffure which the fluid contained in the canal
y
FMD would exert, if each particle were folicited by its force —, The question is therefore reduced to the finding the curvature in the canal
γ
FMD, and the ac-celerating forces — in its different parts.
It appears, in the first place, that no preffure is ex-erted by any of the particles along the curve FM : for suppose that the particle
a
(fig. 17.) describes the in-definitely small ftraight line
a b
in the firff instant, and 
I c
in the fecond instant ; produce
a b
till
b d — a b,
and joining
dc,
the motion
ab
or
b d
may be confidered
as 
composed of
b c,
which the particle really takes in the next instant, and a motion
d c
which should be destroyed. Draw
b i
parallel to
d c,
and
i t
perpendicular to
b c. 
It is plain that the particle
b,
solicited by the forces 
be, ei
(equivalent to
dc}
should be in equilibrio. This-being established,
.b e
must be = o, that is, there will be. no accelerating or retarding force at
b ;
for if there be, draw
b m
(fig.. 18.) perpendicular
to
b
F, and the parallel
n q
infinitely near it. The part
b n
of the fluid 
contained in the canal
bn qm
would sustain some pres-
sure from
b
towards
n,
or from « towards
b.
Therefore since the fluid in this stagnant canal should be in equilibrio, there must also be some action, at least in one of the parts
b m, m q, qn,
to counterbalance the action on the partez/. But the fluid is stagnant in the space FAM (in consequence of the law of continuity). Therefore there is no force which can act on
b m, τnq, ^ q n;
and the preffure in the canal in the direction
b n
or 
« b
is nothing, or the force
b e = 0,
and the force <
e
is perpendicular to the canal ; and there is therefore no preffure in the canal FM, except what proceeds from the part
γ
F, or from the force <∙z ; which laft being perpendicular to the canal, there can be no force exerted on the point M, but what is propagated from the part
y
F.
The velocity therefore in the canal FM is confient if finite, or infinitely small if variable : for, in the first case, the force
b e
would be absolutely nothing ; and Tn the second case, it would be an infinitesimal of the se-coπd order, and may be considered as nothing in com-parison with the velocity, which is of the sirst order. λVe shall see by and by that the last is the real state of the case. Therefore the siuid, before it begins to-change its direction in F, begins to change its velocity in some point
y
a-head of F, and by the time that it reaches F its velocity is as it were annihilated.
Cor.
i. Therefore the preffure in any point D arises both from the retardations in the part
y
F, and from the particles which are in the canal MD : as these last.
a "
move along the surface of the body, the force —> de~
ftroyed in every particle, is compounded of two othersr one in the direction of the surface, and the other per-pendicular to it ; call these
p
and
p'.
The point D ia preffed perpendicularly to the surface MD ; ist, by all the forces
p
in the curve MD ; 2d, by the force
ρ'
acting on the single point D. This may be neglected in comparison of the indefinite number of the others : therefore taking in the arch MD, an infinitely fmaît portion· N
m, — s,
the preffure on D, perpendicular to the surface of the body, will be ≈s yQ> and this fluent must be so taken as to be —
0
in the point M.
Cor.
2. Therefore, to find the preffure on D, we must find the force
p
on any point N. Let
u
be the velocity of the particle N, in the direction N
m
in any instant, and a +
u
its velocity in the following instant ; we must have
p —
    Therefore the whole question
is reduced to finding the velocity
u
in every pcsint N, in the direction N w.
And this is the aim of a series of propositions which follow, in which the author displays the most accurate and precise conception of the subject, and great addrefs and elegance in his mathematical analysis. He at length brings out an equation which expreffes the preffure on the body in the most general and unexceptionable manner. we cannot give an abstract, because the train of reasoning is already concise in the extreme : nor can we even exhibit the final equation ; for it is conceived in the most refined and abstruse form of indeterminate, functions, in order to embrace every possible circum-stance. But we can affure our readers, that it truly expreffes the folution of the problem. But, alas ! it is of
no
uΓe. So imperfect is our mathematical knowledge, that even Mr d’Alembert has not been able to exem-plify the application of the equation to the simplest case which can be proposed, such as the direct impulse on a plane surface wholly immersed in the stuid. All that he is enabled to do, is to apply it (by some modifications and substitutions which take it out of its state of extreme generality) to the direct impulse of a vein of siuid on a plane which deflects it wholly, and thus to show its conformity to the solutioh given by Daniel Bernoulli, and to observation and experience. He shows, that this impulse (independent of the deficiency arifing from the plane’s not being of infinite extent) is somewhat lefs than the weight of a column whose base is the section of the vein, and whose height is twice the fall neceffary for communicating the velocity. This great philosopher and geometer concludes by faying, that he does not believe that any method can be found for solving this problem that is more direct and simple ; and imagines, that if the deductions from it shall be found not to agree with experiment, we must give up all hopes of determining the resistance of fluids by theory and analytical calculus. He says
analytical calculus ; 
for all the phyfical principles on which the calculus pro-ceeds are rigorously demonstrated, and will not admit of a doubt. There is only one hypothesis introduced in his investigation, and this is not a phystcal hypothe-sis, but a hypothesis of calculation. It is, that the quantities which determine the ratios of the fecond siu-xions of the velocities, estimated in the directions pa-railel and perpendicular to the axis AC (fig. 16.) are functions of the absciffa AP, and ordinate PM of the curve. Any person, in the least acquainted with mathematical analysis, will see, that without this supposi-tion no analysis or calculus whatever can be instituted. But let üs see what is the
phyβcal
meaning of this hypothecs. It is simply this, that the motion of the par-ticle M depends on its situation only. It appears im-possible to form any other opinion ; and if we could form Juch an opinion, it is as clear as day-light that the case is desperate, and that we must renounce all hopes.
W¢ are forry to bring our labours to this conclusion; but we are of opinion, that the only thing that remains is, for mathematicians to attach themselves with sirm-ness and vigour to fome simple cafes ; and, without aiming at generality, to apply Mr d’Alembert’s or Bernoulli’s mode of procedure to the particular circum-stances of the cafe. It is not improbable but that, in the solutions which may be obtained of thesc particular cafes, circumftances may occur which are of a more ge-neral nature. These will be so many laws of hydraulics to be added to our present very scanty stock ; and thele may have points of resemblance, which will give birth to laws of still greater generality. And we repeat our expression of hopes of some success, by endea-vouring to determine, in some simple cases, the
minimum poflibile
of motion. The attempts of the Jesuit commentators on the
Prindpia
to ascertain this on the New-tonian hypothesis do them honour, anil have really given us great assistance in thc particular case which came through their hands.
And we should multiply experiments on the resistance of bodies. Those of the French academy are undoubtedly of inestimable value, and will always be
ap-
peaied to.
But
there are circumstaiices in thofe experiments which render them more complicated than is proper tor a general theory, and which therefore limit the conclusions which we wish to draw from them. The bodies Were floating on the surface. This greatly modifies the deflections of the filaments of water, causing some to deflect laterally, which would otherwise have remained in one vertical plane ; and this circumstance also neceffarily produced what the academicians callcd the
remou,
or accumulation on the anterior part of the body, and depression behind it. This produced an ad-ditional resistance, which was measured with great diffi-culty and uncertainty. The effect of adhesion mull also havc been very considerable, and very different ill the different cases ; and it is of difficult calculation. It cannot perhaps be totally removed in any experiment, and it is neceffary to consider it as making part of the resistance in the moil important practical cases, viz. the motion of ships. Here we see that its effect is very great. Every seaman knows that the speed, even of
a 
copper-sheathed ship, is
greatly
increased bygrealing her bottom. The difference is too remarkable to admit of a doubt : nor should we be surprised at this, when we attend to the diminution of the motion of water in long pipes. A fmooth pipe four and an half inches diameter, and 500 yards long, yields but one-fifth of the quantity which it ought to do independent of friction. But adhesion does a great deal which cannot be corn-pared with friction, we see that water flowing thro’ a hole in a thin plate will be increased in quantity fully one-third, by adding a little tube wliose length is about twice the diameter of the hole. The adhesion therefore will greatly modify the action of the fila-ments both on the solid body and on each other, and will change both the forms of the curves and the velo-cities in different points ; and this is a fort of objec-tion to the only hypothesis introduced by d'Alembert>, Yet it is only a fort os objection ; for the effect of this adhesion, too, mull undoubtedly depend on the fituation of the particle.
The form of thefe experiments of the academy is ilI-fuited to the examination of the resistance of bodies wholly immersed in the fluid. The form of experiment adopted by Robins for the resistance of air, and afterwards by the Chevalier Borda for water, is tree from these inconveniences, and is susceptible of equal accuracy. The great advantage of both is the exact knowledge which they give us of the velocity of the motion ; a circumstance effentially ncceffary, and but imperfectly known in the experiments of Mariotte and others, who examined quiescent bodies expofed to the action os a- stream. It is extremely difficult to measure the velocity of a stream. It is very different in its different parts. It is swifteft of all in the middle supersi-cial filament, and diminishes as we recede from this towards the sides or bottom, and the rate of diminution is not precisely known. Could this be afcertained with the neceffary precision, we should recommend the fol-lowing form of experiment as the most stmple, easy, eco-Homical, and accurate.
Let /7,
b, c, d,
(sig. 19.) be four hooks placed in
a
horizontal plane at the corners of a rectangular parallelogram, the sides
tιr, Id
being parallel to the direction of the stream ABCD, and "the sides
ab, ai
being perpendicular to it. Let the body G be fattened to
an axis
e f
of stiff-tempered steel-wire, so that the fur-face on which the fluid is to act may be inclined to the stream in the precise angle we desire. Let this axis have hooks at its extremities, which are hitched into the loops of four equal threads, suspeuded fιom the hooks
a, b,
c,
cl ;
and let He be a silth thread, suspended from the middle of the line joining the points of fuspension
a, b.
Let HIK be a graduated arch, whole centre is H, and whose plane is in the direction of the stream. It is evident that the impulle on the body
G 
will be measured (by a process well known to every mathematician) by the deviation of the thread He from the vertical line HI ; and this will be done without any intricacy of calculation, or any attention to the centres of gravity, of oscillation, or of percussion. These must be accurately afcertained with respect to that form in which the pendulum has always been employed for meafuring the impulse or velocity of a stream. These advantages arise from the circumstance, that the axis 
cs
remains always parallel to the horizon, we may be allowed to observe, by the by, that this would have been a great improvement of the beautiful experiments of Mr Robins and Dr Hutton on the velocities of cannon-shot, and would have saved much intricate calculation, and been attended with many important ad-vantages.
The great difficulty is, as we have observed, to mea-fure the velocity of the stream. Even this may be done in this way wτ ith fome precision. Let two floating bo-dies be dragged along the surface, as in the experiments of the academy, at fome distance from each other late-rally, so. that the water between them may not be sen-sibly disturbed. Let a horizontal bar be attached to them, transverse to the direction of their motion, at a proper height above the furface, and let a spherical pen-duλum be iuspended from this, or let it be suspended from four points, as here described. Now let the deviation of this pendulum be noted in a variety of velo-cities. This will give us the law of relation between the velocity and the deviation of the pendulum. Now, in making experiments on the refistance of bodies, let the velocity of the stream, in the very filament in which the refistance is meafnred, be determined by the devia-t.ion of this pendulum.
It were greatly to be wished that some more palpable argument could be found for the existence of a quantity of stagnant fluid at the anterior and posterior patts of tlie body. The one already given, derived from the confideration that no motion changes either its velocity or direction by finite quantities in an instant, is unex-ceptionable. But it gives us little information. The finalleit conceivable extent of the curve FM in fig. 16. will answer this condition, provided only that it touch-es the axis in some peint F, and the body in some point M, fo as not to make a finite angle with either. But surely there are circumstances which rigorousiy determine the extent of this stagnant fluid. And it appears without doubt, that if there were no cohesion or fric-tion, this space will have a determined ratio to the fize of the body (the figures of the bodies being supposed similar).. Suppose a plane surfaee AB, as in sig.
io. 
there can be no doubt but that the figure A
a
D
b
B will in every case be similar. But if we suppose an adhesion or tenacity which is constant, this may make 
θ
change
both
in its
extent and its form : sor its con-
stancy os form depends on the disturbing forces being alwayβ as the squares of the velocity ; and this ratio os the disturbing forces is preserved, while the inertia of the fluid is the only agent and patient in the process. But when we add to this the constant (that is, invariable) disturbing force of tenacity, a change of form and dimenlions must happen. In like manner, the friction, or something analogous to friction, which produces an effect proportional to the velocity, must alter this ne-ceslhry ratio of the whole disturbing forces. We may conclude, that the effect of both these circumstances will be to diminish the quantity of this stagnant fluid, by licking it away externally ; and to this we must afcribe the fact, that the part FAM is never perfectly stagnant, but is generally disturbed with a whirling motion. we may also conclude, that this stagnant siuid. will be more ineurvated between F and M than it would, have been, independent of tenacity and friction ; and that the arch LR. will, on the contrary, be less incur-vated.—And, lastly, we may conclude, that there will be something opposite to preffure, or something which we may call
abjtra£lion,
exerted on the posterior part of the body which moves in a tenacious fluid, or is expo-fed to the stream of such a fluid ; lor the stagnant stuid LCR adheres to the surfaee LC ; and the pas-sing stuid tends to draw it away both by its tenacity and by its friction. This mnst augment the apparent impulse of the stream on fuch a body ; and it must greatly augment the resistance, that is, the motion lost by this body in its progrefs through the tenacious fluid : for the body must drag along with it this stagnant fluid, and drag it in opposition. to the tenacity and friction
of 
the surrounding fluid. The effect of this is most remarkably seen in the resistances to the motion of pen-dulums : and the chevalier Boat, in his examination of Newton’s experiments, clearly shows that this consti-tutes the greatest part of the resistance.
This most ingenious writer has paid great attention to this part of the process of nature, and has laid the foundation of a theory of resistance entirely different from all the preceding. We cannot abridge it ; and it is too imperfect in its present condition to be offered as a body βf doctrine : but we hope that the ingenious au-thor wisl prosecute the subject.
WE cannot conclude this differtation (which we acknowledge to be very unsatisfactory and imperfect) better, than by giving an account of some experiments of the chevalier Buat, which seem of immense consequence, and tend to give us very new views of the fub-ject. Mr Buat observed the motion of water iffuing from a glass cylinder through a narrow ring formed by a bottom of smaller diameter ; that is, the cylinder was open at both ends, and there was placed at its lower end a circle of smaller diameter, by way of bottom, which left a ring all around. He threw some powdered sealing wax into the water, and observed with great attention the motion of its small particles. He law those which happened to be in the very axis of the cylinder descend along the axis with a motion pretty uniform, till they came very near the bottom fromi  this they continued to descend very slowly, till they were almost in contact with the bottom ; they then deviated from the centre, and approached the orifice in.
straiglit lines and with an accelerated motion, and at last darted into the orifice with great rapidity. He had observed a thing similar to this in a horizontal ca-nal, in which he had fet up a small board like a dam or bar, over wh'eh the water flowed. He had thrown a goostberry into the water, in order to measure the velo-city at the bottom, the goofet>erry being a fmall matter heavier than water. It approached the dam uniformly till about three inches from it. Here it almost stood still, but it continued to advance till almost in contact. It then rose from the bottom along the inlide of the dam with an accelerated motion, and quickly escaped over the top.
Hence he concluded, that the water which covers the anterior part of the body expofed to the stream is not perfectly stag.nant, and that the filaments recede from the axis in curves, which converge to the surface of the body as different hyperbolas converge to the fame affymptote, and that they move with a velocity continually increafing till they escape round the sides ef the body.
He had established (by a pretty reasonable theory, confirmed by experiment) a proposition concerning the preffure which water in motion exerts on the surface along which it glides, viz.
that the prejfure is equal to that which it would exert if at reft
minus
the weight of the column whose height would produce the velocity of the paftlng (lream.
Consequently the preffure which the ftream exerts on the surface perpendicularly expofed to it will depend on the velocity with which it glides along it, and will diminish from the centre to the circumference. This, says he, may be the reason why the impnlse on a plane wholly immersed is but one half of that on a plane which deflects the whole stream.
He contrived a very ingenious instrument sor exami-ning this theory. A fquare brass plate ABGF (fig.
20.    ) was pierced with a great number of holes, and fixed in the front of a shallow box represented edgewise in fig.
21.    
The back of this box was pierced with a hole r, in which was inferted the tube of glass CDE, bent fquare at D. This instrument was expofed to a stream of water, which beat on the brass plate. The water having silled the box through the holes, siood at an equal height in the glass tube when the surrounding water was stagnant ; but when it was in motion, it always siood in the tube above the level of the smooth water without, and thus indicated the preffure occasion-ed by the action of the stream.
when the instrument was not wholly immerfed, there was always a considerable accumulation against the front of the box, and a depression behind it. The water before it was by no means stagnant : indeed it should not be, as Mr Buat observes ; for it consists of the water which was escaping on all sides, and therefore upwards from the axis of the stream, which meets the plate perpendi-cularly in
c
considerably under the surface. It escapes upwards ; and if the body were fussiciently immersed, it would escape in this direction almost as easily as laterally. But in the present circumstances, it heaps up, till the elevation occasions it to fall off sidewise as fast as it is renewed, when the instrument was immerfed more than its semidiameter under the surface, the water- still rose above the level, and there was a great depression immediately behind this elevation. In con-Lquence of this difficulty of escaping upwards, the wa-ter flows off laterally ; and if the horizontal
dim¢nsions 
of the lurface is great, this lateral efflux becomes more difficult, and requires a greater accumulation. From this it happens, that the resistance of broad surfaces equally immersed is greater than in the proportion of the breadth. A plane of two feet wide and one foot deep, when it is not completely immersed, will be more refilled than a plane two feet deep and one foot wide ; sor there will be an accumulation against both : and even if these were equal in height, the additional fur-face will be greatest in the widest body ; and- the ele-vation will be greater, becaufe the lateral escape is more difficult.
The circumstances chiefly to be attended to are these.
The preffure on the centre was much greater than towards the border, and, in general, the height os the water in the tube DE was more than ∙∣ of the height ue-ceffary for producing the velocity when only the central hole was open, when various holes were opened at different distances from the centre, the height of the water in DH continually diminished as the hole was nearer the border. At a certain distance from the border the water at E was level with the surrounding water, so that no preffure was exerted on that hole. But the moft unexpected and remarkable circumstance was, that, in great velocities, the holes at the very border, and even to a small distance from it, not only sustained no preffure, but even gave out water ; for the water in the tube was lower than the surrounding water. Mr Buat calls this a
r.on-prejfιυn.
In a case in which the velocity ot the stream was three feet, and the preffure on the central hole caused the water in the vertical tube to stahd 33 lines or ⅜⅜ of an inch above the level of the suriounding smooth water, the action on a hole at the lower corner of the square caused it to stand 12 line» lower than the furrounding water. Now the velocity of the stream in this experiment was 36 inches
per
second. This requires 21⅜ lines for its productive fall ; whereas thc preffure on the central hole was 33. This approaches to the preffure on a surface which deflects it wholly. The intermediate holes gave every variation of preffure, and the diminution was more rapid as the holes were nearer the edge j but the law of diminution could not be obferved.
This is quite a new and most unexpected circumstance in the action of fluids on solid bodies, and renders the subject more intricate than ever ; yet it is by no means inconlistent with the genuine principles of hydrostatics or hydraulics. In as far as Mr Buat’s proposttion conccrning the preffure of moving fluids is true, it is very reasonable to fay, that when the lateral velocity with which the fluid tends to escape exceeds the velocity of percuision, the height neceffa-ry for producing this velocity must exceed that which would produce the other, and a non-preffion must be observed. And if we consider the forms of the la-teral filaments near the edge of the body, we see that the concavity of the curve is turned towards the body, and that the centrifugal forces tend to diminish. their preffure on the body. If the middle alone were struck with a confiderable velocity, the water might even rebound, as is frequently obferved. This
actual 
rebounding is here prevented by the surrounding wa
ter, which is moving
with
the fame velocity ;
but
the prcffurê may be almost annihilated by the
tendency
to rebound of thc inner filaments.
Part (and perhaps a considerable part) of this appa-rent non-pression is undoubtedly produced by thc tenacity of the water, which licks off with it the water lying in the hole. But, at any rate, this is an important fact, and gives great value to these experiments. It gives a key to many curious pnenome-na in the rehstance of fluids ; and the theory of Mr Buat deserves a very serious confideration. It is all contained in the two following propositions.
1.    "
If by any cause whatever, a column of fluid, whether making part of an indefinitefiuid, or contained in solid canals, comes to move with a given velocity, the prejfure • which it exerted laterally before its motion, either on the adjoining fiuid or on the fides of the canal, is diminijhed by the
weight of a column having the height necejfary for communicating the velocity of the motion.
2.    " The prefl'ure On the centre of a plane furface perpendicular to theJlream, and wholly immcrfed in it, is ⅜ of the weight of a column having the height necejfιry for communicating the velocity. For
33 h ⅜ ¾f 2l-r∙"
He attempted to ascertain the medium preffure on the whole surface,. by opening 625 holes dispersed all over it. with the same velocity of current, he found the height in the tube to be 29 lines, or 7 more than the height neceffary for producing the velocity. But he juftly concluded this to be too great a measure, be-cause the holes were ⅛ of an inch from the edge : had there been holes at the very edge, they would have sus-tained a non-pression, which would have diminished the height in the tube very considerably. He expofed to the same ftream a conical funnel, which raised the water to 34 lines. But this could not be considered as a measure of the preffure on a plane solid surface : for the central water was undoubtedly scooped out, as it were, and the filaments much more deflected than they would have been by a plane surface. Perhaps something of this happened even in every small hole in the for-mer experiments. And this suggests some doubt as to the accuracy of the meafurement of the preffure and of the velocity of a current by Mr Pitot’s tube. It surely renders some corrections absolutely neceffary. It is a fast, that when expofid to a vein of stuid coming through a short paffage, the water in the tube Hands on a level with that in the reservoir. Now we know that the velocity of this stream
does not
exceed what would be produced by a fall equal to τ 8 θ⅛ of the head of water in the refirvoir. Mr Buat made many valuable ob∙ firvations and improvements on this most useful instrument, which will be taken notice of in the articles Rivers and
WATF.R-Wsrks.
Mr Buat, by a scrupulous attention to all the circum-stances, concludes, that the medium of preffure on the
25.5
whole surface is equal to-of the weight of a co.
21.5
lumn, having the surface for its bafc, and the produc-tive fall for its height. But we think that there is an uncertainty in this conclufion ; becaufe the height of the water in the vertical tube was undoubtedly augmented by an hydroftatical preffure aristng from the accumulation of water above the. body which was expofed to the ftream.
Since the preffures are as the squares of tlie veloci-
ties, or as the heights
h
which produce the velocities,
we may express this preffure by the fmybol~—
'~b,
or
t,ι86∕>, or
mh,
the value of
m
being 1,186. This exceeds confιderably the result of the experiments of the French academy. In these it does not appear that 
m
senfibly exceeds unity. Note, that in these experi-ments the body was moved through still water ; here it is expofed to a stream. Thefi are generally fupρofid to be equivalent, on the authority of the third law of mo∙ tion, which makes every action depend on thc 1 elative motions. we shall by and by fie some causes of difference.
The writers on this subject seem to think their task completed when they have considered the action of the siuid on the anterior part of the body, or that part of it which is before the broadest fiction, and have paid little or no attention to the hinder part. Yet thofi who are most interested in the subject, the naval architects, seem convinced that it is of no less importance to attend to the form of the hinder part of a ship. And the universal practice of all nations has been to make the hinder part more acute than the fore-part. This has undoubtedly been deduced from experience; for it is in direct opposition to any notions which a person would naturally form on this subject. Mr Buat therefore thought it very neceffary to examine the action of the water on the hinder part of a body by the fame method. And, previous to this examination, in order to acquire some scientisic notions of the subject, he made the following very curious and instrustive experiment.
Two little conical pipes AB (fig. 22.) were inferted into the upright side of a prismatic veffel. They were an inch long, and their diameters at the inner and outer ends were five and four lines. A was ς7 lines under the surface, and B was 73. A glass syphon was made of the shape represented in the figure, and its internal diameter was 1 £ lines. It was placed with its mouth in the axis, and even with the bafe of the conical pipe. The pipes being lhut, the veffel was silled with water, and it was made to stand on a level in the two legs of the syphon, the upper part being full of air. when this fyphon was applied to the pipe A, and the water running freely, it rofe 3 2 lines in the short leg', and funk as much in the other, when it was applied to the pipe B, the water rofe 41 lines in the one leg of the syphon, and sunk as much in the other.
He reafons in this manner srom the experiment. The ring comprehended between the end of the syphon and the sides of the conical tube being the narrowest part of the orifice, the water iffued with the velocity cor-responding to the height of the water in the veffel above the orifice, diminished for the contraction. If therefore the cylindcr of water immediately before the mouth of the syphon iffued with the same velocity, the tube would be emptied through a height equal to this head of water.
(charge j.
If, on the contrary, this cylinder of water, immediately before the mouth of the syphon, were stagnant, the water in it would exert its full preffure on the mouth of the syphon, and the water in the syphon would be level with the water in the veffel. Between these extremes we must find the real state of the case, and we must meafure the force of non-preffure by the rise of the water in the fyphon.
we fie that in both experiments it bears an accurate
proportion to the depth under the surface. For 57 : 73r=32 : 41 very nearly. He therefore estimates the non-preffure to be of the height of the water above the orifice.
we are difposed to think that the ingenious author has not reasoned accurately from the experiment. In the first place, the force indicated by the experiment, whatever be its origin, is certainly double of what he fuppofes ; for it must be measured by the sum of the rise of the water in one leg, and its depression in the «ther, the weight of the air in the bend of the syphon being neglected. It is precisely analogous to the force acting on the water oseillatmg in a fyphon, which is acknowledged to be the sum of the elevation and de-pression. The force indicated by the experiment therefore is
∙i-⅛⅜
θf the height of the water above the orifice. The force exhibited in this experiment bears a still greater proportion to the productive height ; sor it is certain that the water
did not
iffue with the velo--*'city acquired by the fall from the surface, and probably did not exceed -J os it. The effect of contraction must have been confiderable and uncertain. The velocity should have been measured both by the amplitude of the jet and by the quantity os water discharged. In the next place, we apprehend that much os the effect is produced by the tenacity os the water, which drags along with it the water which would have slowly iffued from the fyphon, had the other end not dipped into the water of the veffel.
we
know, that if the hori-zontal part of the syphon had been continued far enough, and if no retardation were occafioned by fric-tion, the column of water in the upright leg would have accelerated like any heavy body ; and when the laft of it had arrived at the bottom of that leg, the whole in the horizontal part would be moving with the velocity acquiredby falling from the surface. The water of the vef-sel which iiΓues through the surrounding ring very quickly acquires a much greater velocity than what the water descending in the syphon would acquire in the same time, and it drags this last water along with it both by tenacity and friction, and it drags it out till its action is opposed by the want of equilibrium produced in the syphon, by the elevation in the one leg and the depression in the other. We imagine that little can be concluded from the experiment with respect to the real non-preffure. Nay, if the sides of the syphon be supposed infinitely thin, so that there would be no curvature of the fila-ments of the surrounding water at the mouth of the syphon, we do not very distinctly fee any fouree of non-preffure : For we are not altogether fatisfièd with the proof which Mr Buat offers for this measure of the preffure of a ffream of fluid gliding along a surface,
and οbβructed by friction or any other caufe.·
we imagine that the passing water in the present experiment would be a little retarded by accelerating continually the water de-scending in the syphon, and renewed a-top, suppofing tlie upper end open; because this water would not of it-self acquire more than half this velocity. It however drags it out, till it not only refists with a force equal to the weight of the whole vertical column, but even ex-ceeds it by τ ⅛⅛∙. This it is able to do, because the whole preffure by which the water iffues from an orifice has been shown (by Daniel Bernoulli) to be equal to twice this weight, we therefore confider this beauti-
Sil experiment
as
chiefly
valuable,
by
giving us a
mea-
sure of the tenacity of the water; and we wish that it were repeated in a variety of depths, in order to disco-ver what relation the force exerted bears to the depth. It would seem that the tenacity, being a certain deter-minate thing, the proportion of 100 to 112 would not be constant; and that the observed ratio would be made up of two parts, one of them constant, and the other proportional to the depth under the surface.
But still this experiment is intimately connected with the matter in hand ; and this apparent non-pres-sure'on the hinder part of a body expofed to a stream, from whatever causes it proceeds, does operate in the action of water on this hinder part, and mult be taken into the account.
_ we must therefore follow the Chevalier de Buat in his discussions on this subject. A prismatic body, ha-ving its prow and poop equal and parallel surfaces,. and plunged horizontally into a fluid, will require a force to keep it firm in the direction of its axis precisely equal to the difference between the real preffures exerted on its prow and poop. If the fluid is at rest, this difference will be nothing, because the oppofite dead preffures of the fluid will be equal : but in a stream, there is superadded to the dead preffure on the prow the active preffure arising from the deflections of the filaments-of this fluid.
If the dead preffure on the poop remained in its full intensity by the perfect stagnation of the water be-hind it, the whole fensible preffure on the body would be the active preffure only on the prow, represented by 
m h.
If, on the other hand, we could suppose that the water behind the body moved continually away from it ( being renewed laterally ) with the velocity of the ftream, the dead preffure would be entirely removed from its poop, and the whole senfible preffure, or what muff be opposed by some external force, would be
m h
-j-
h. 
Neither of these can happen ; and the real state of the case must be between thefo extremes.·
The following experiments were tried : The perfo-rated box with its vertical tube was expofed to the stream, the brass plate being turned down the stream. The velocity was again 36 inches per second.
The central hole A alone being opened, gave a non-preffure of _    -    .    
13 lines..
A hole B, ⅜ of an inch from the
edge;
gave    -    -    15
A hole C, near the surfaee    -    1 5>7
A hole D, at the lower angle -
1y,j
Here it appears that there is a very confiderable non-preffure, increafing from the centre to the border.. This increase undoubtedly-proceeds from the greater la-teral velocity with which the water is gliding in from the sides. The water behind was by no means stag-nant, although moving off with a much fmaller velocity than that of the passing stream, and it was vistbly removed from the fides, and gradually licked away at its further extremity.
Another box, having a great number of holes, all open, indicated a medium off non-preffure equal to 13,i lines.
A nother of larger dimenfions,
but
having
fewer holes,
indicated a non-preffure of 12⅛.
But the most remarkable,, and the most important phenomena, were the following :
The sirst box wal s fixed to the side of another box,
Γo
that, when all was made smooth,
it madc
a perfect cube, of which the perforated brass plate made the poop.
The apparatus being now expofed to the stream, with the perforated plate looking down the stream,
The hole A indicated a non-pression -    = 7,2
B    -    .    -    
8
C . ’ 6
Here was a great diminution of the non-pressions produced by the distance between the prow and the poop.
This box was then fitted in the same manner, so as to make the poop of a box three feet long. In this •fituation the non-pressures were as follow î
Hole A    -    -    - k 1 >5
B    3>.2
The non-pressions were still farther diminished by this increase of length.
The box was then expofed with all the holes open, in three different iituations :
ift, Single, giving a non-preffute -    I3’1
ad, Making the poop of a cube    -    5’3
3d, Making the poop of a box three feet long 3,0
Another larger box :
ist,
Single    .    -    
12,2
2d, Poop of a cube    -    -    5’
3d, Poop of the long box    -    3’2
These are most valuable experiments. They plainly show how important it is to confider the action on the hinder part of the body. For the whole impulse or refistance, which must be withstood or overcome by the external force, is the sum of the active preffure on the fore-part, and of the non-preffure on the hinder-part ; and they ssiow that this does not depend solely on the form of the prow and poop, but also, and perhaps chiefly, on the length of the body. We see that the non-preffure on the hinder-part was prodigiously diminished (reduced to one-fourth) by making the length of the body triple of the breadth. And hence it appears, that merely lengthening a ship, without making any change in the form either of her prow or her poop, will greatly diminish the refistance to her motion through the water ; and this increase of length may be made by continuing the form of the midship frame in several timbers along the keel, by which the capacity of the ship, and her power of carrying fail, will be greatly increased, and her other qualities improved, while her speed is augmented.
It is surely of importance to confider a little the phyfical cause of this change. The motions are extremely complicated, and we must be contented if we can but perceive a few leading circumstances.
The water is turned aside by the anterior part of the body, and the velocity of the filaments is increafed, and they acquire a divergent motion, by which they also push afide the surrounding water. Οη each fide of the body, therefore, they are moving in a divergent direc-tion, and with an increased velocity. But as they are on all tides pressed by the fluid without them, their motions gradually approach to parallelism, and their velocities to an equality with the stream. The progres-five velocity, or that in the direction of the stream, is checked, at least at first. But fince we observe the fi-laments constipated round the body, and that they are 
got deflected at right angles to their former direction,
it is plain that the real velocity of a filament in its ob-lique path is augmented. We always obferve, that a stone lying in the sand, and expofed to the waih of the lea, is laid bare at the bottom, and the sand is generally washed away to some distance all round. This is owing to the increased velocity of the water which comes into contact with the stone. It takes up more sand than it can keep floating, and it depofits it at a little distance all around, forming a little bank, which fur-rounds the stone at a small distance. when the filaments of water have paffed the body, they are pressid by the ambient fluid into the place which it has quitted, and they glide round its stern, and fill up the space behind. '1 he more divergent and the more rapid they are, when about to fall in behind, the more of the circumambient preffure must be employed to turn them in-to the trough behind the body, and less of it will remain to press them to the body itself. The extreme of this must obtain when the liream is obstructed by a thin plane only. But when there is fome distance between the prow and the poop, the divergency of the fi-laments which had been turned afide by the prow, ia diminished by the time that they have come abreast of the stern, and should turn in behind it. They are therefore more readily made to converge behind the body, and a more confiderable part of the surrounding pressure remains unexpended, and therefore presses the water against the fiern ; and it is evident that this advantage must be so much the greater as the body is longer. But the advantage will soon be susceptible of no very confiderable increase : for the lateral and divergent, and accelerated filaments, will soon become so nearly parallel and equally rapid with the rest of thc stream, that a great increafe of length will not make any confiderable change in thefe particulars ; and it must be accompanied with an increase of friction.
These are very obvious reflections. And if we attend minutςly to the way in which thc almost stagnant stuid behind the body is expended and renewed, we shall see all these effects confirmed and augmented. But as we cannot say any thing on this subject that is precise, or that can be made the subject of computation, it is needless to enter into a more minute discussion. The diminution of the non-pressure towards the centra most probably arifes from the smaller force which is ne-cessary to be expended in the inflection of the lateral fi . laments, already inflected in some degree, and having their velocity diminished. But it 13 a subject highly defer vi ng the attention of the mathematicians ; and we presume to invite them to the study of the motions of thefe lateral filaments, passing the body, and pressed into its wake by forces which are sufceptible of no difficult investigation. It seems highly probable, that if a prifmatic box, with a fquare stern, were fitted with an addition precifely shaped like the water which would (abstracting tenacity and friction) have been stagnant behind it, the quantity of non-pression would be thc fmallest possible. The mathematician would surely dis-cover circumstances which would furnish some maxims of construction for the hinder part as well as for the prow. And as h,is speculations on tins last have not been wholly fruitless, we may expect advantages from his attention to this part, so much neglected.
In the mean time, let us attend to the deductions'
which
Mr de Buat has made from his few experiments.
V∏ιen the
velocity is three feet per second, requiring the productive Height 2 ι ,5 lines, the heights corresponding to the non-preffure on the poop of a thin plane is 14,41 lines (taking in several circumstances of judicious correction, which we have not mentioned), that of a foot cube is 5,83, and that of a box of triple length is 3,-31.
Let
q
express the variable ratio of these to the height producing the velocity, so that
q h
may express the non-preffnre in every cafe ; we have,
For a thin plane    -    -    
q ~
0,67
a cube    -    0,271
a box ~ 3 cubes -    -    o, 153
It is evident that the value of
q
has a dependence on the proportion of the length, and the transverse fiction of the body. A firies os experiments oil prismatic bo-dies showed Mr de Bπat that the deviation of the sila-meπts was similar in similar bodies, and that this ob-tained even in dissimilar prisms, when the lengths were as the square-roots of the tranfverse fictions. Although therefore the experiments were not sufficiently numerous for deducing the precifi law, it seemed not impos-sible to derive from them a very ufeful approximation. By a dexterous comparison he found, that if Z expreffes the length of the prism, and r the area of the transverse fiction, and ∑j expreffes the common logarithm of the quantity to which it is prefixed, we shall express the non-preffure pretty accurately by the formula 1 ~-
Hence arifis an important remark, that when the height corresponding to the non-pression is greater than 
»,/s,
and the body is little immerfid in the fluid, there will be a void behind it.. Thus a surface of a square inch, just immerfid in a current of three feet per se--cond, will have a void behind it. A foot square will be in a fimilar condition when the velocity is 12 feet.
we must be careful to distinguish this non-preffure from the other caufis of reststance, which are always neceffarily combined with it. It is fuperadditive to the active impreffion on the prow, to the ftatical pres-ffure of the accumulation a-head of the body, the llaticaî preffure arising from the depression behind it, the effects of friction, and the effects of tenacity. It is indeed next to impossible to estimate them feparately, and many of them are actually combined in the meafures now given. Nothing can determine the pure nou-preffures till we can ascertain the motions of the filaments.
Mr de Buat here takes occasion to controvert the universally adopted maxim, that the preffure <3ccaf1oned by a stream of stuid on a fixed body is the same with that on a body moving with equal velocity in a qui-efcent fluid. He repeated all these experiments with the perforated box in still water. The general distinc-tipn was, that both the preffures and the non-preffure in this case was less, and that the odds was chiefly to be obfirved near the edges of the surface. The gene-ral factor of the preffure of a ftream on the anterior fur-face was
m
~ 1,186; but that on a body moving through a still stuid is only
m
— 1. Fie observed no non-preffure even at the very edge of the prow, but even a finsible preffure. The preffure, therefore, or re-sistance, is more equably diffufid over the surface of the prow than the impulse is.— He alfo found that the resistances diminished in a less ratio than the squares of the velocities, especially in small velocities.
The non-pressures increased in a greater ratio than the squares of the velocities. The ratio of the velocities to a small velocity of
2(
inches
per
second increased geome-trically, the value of
q
increafid arithmetically ; and we may determine
q for any
velocity V by this proportion
l V,
L — :    L ~    = 0,5 :y, and    
q    -
---2 >,.2 .    That is,
2,2    22    y,     ■*    2 ,8 ∙
let the common logarithm of the velocity, divided by 2s, be considered as a common number ; divide this common number by 21 ⅞∙, the quotient is y, which must be multiplied by the productive height. The pro-duct is the preffure.
when Pitot’s tube was expofid to the stream, we had
m —
1 ; but rvhen it is carried through still water, 
m
is = 1,22. when it was turned from the stream, we had
q —
0,157 ; but when carried through stili water,
q
is =0,138. A remarkable experiment.
when the tube was moved laterally through the wa-ter, so that the motion was in the direction of the plane of its mouth, the non-preffure was — 1. This is one of his chief arguments for his theory of non-pression. Fie does not give the detail of the experiment, and only infirts the result in his table.
As a body expofid to a ftream deflects the stuid, heaps it up, and increases its velocity; fo a body moved through a still fluid turns it aside, caufis it to swell up before it, and gives it a real motion alongiide of it in the opposite direction. And as the body expofid to a stream has a quantity of fluid almost stagnant both before and behind; so a body moved through a still fluid carries before it and drags after it a quantity of fluid, which accompanies it with nearly an equal velocity. This addition to the quantity of matter in motion must make a diminution of its velocity ; and this forms a very considerable part of the obfirved resistauce.
we cannot, however, help remarking that it would require very distinct and strong proof indeed to overturn the common opinion, which is founded on our most certain and sxmple conceptions of motion, and on a law of nature to which we have never obferved an exception. Mr de Buat’s experiments, tho’ most judiciousiy contrived, and executed with scrupulous care, are by no means of this kind. They were, of absolute necessity, veιy complicated ; and many circumstances, impossible to avoid or to appreciate, rendered the obfirvatiυn, or at least the comparison, of the velocities, veιy uncertain.
we can fie but two circumstances which do not admit of an· easy or immediate comparison in the two states of the problem, when a body is expofid to a ftream
in
our experiments,
in order to have an impulse made on it, there is a force tending to move the body backwards, independent of the real impulse or preffure occastoned by the deflection of the ftream. we cannot have a stream except in eonfiquence of a Hoping surface. Suppofe a body floating on this strearti. It will not only fail down
along with the flream,
but it will fail
down the flream,
and will therefore go faster along the canal than the stream does : for it is floating on an inclined plane ; and if we examine it by the laws of hydrostatics, we sliall find, that befides its own tendency to
flide
down this inclined plane, there is an odds of hydrostatical preffure, which
pujhes
it down this plane. It will therefore go along the canal faster than
the stream For this acceleration depends on the diffé
rence of preffure
at the two ends, and will be more re-
markabIe
as the
body is larger,
and
especially as it is longer. This may be distinctly observed. All floating bodies go into the stream of the river, becaufe there they find the smallest obstruction to the acquisition of this motion along the inclined plane ; and when a number of bodies are thus floating down the ftream, the largeft and longeft outstrip the reft. A log of wood floating down in this manner may be observed to make its way very fast among the chips and saw-dust which float a-longside of it.
Now when, in the course of our experiments, a body is supported against the action of a stream, and the im-pulse is measured by .the force employed to fupport it, it ⅛ plain that part of this force is employed to act against that tendency which the body has to outstrip the stream. This does not appear in our experiment, when we move a body with the velocity of this stream through still water having a horizontal furface.
The other distinguishing circumstance is, that the re-tardations of a stream arising from friction are found to be nearly as the velocities, when, therefore, a stream moving in a limited canal is checked by a body put in its way, the diminution of velocity occasioned by the friction of the stream having already produced its effect, the impulse is not affected by it ; but when the body puts the ftill water in motion, the friction of the bottom produces some effect, by retarding the recess of the water. This, however, must be next to no-
thing.
The chief difference will arise from its being almost impossible to make an exact comparison of the veloci-ties : for when a body is moved against the ftream, the relative velocity is the same in all the filaments. But ■when we expose a body to a ftream, the velocity of the different filaments is not the same ; because it decreases from the middle of the flream to the sides.
Mr Buat found the total sensible refιftance of a plate 12 inches square, and measured, not by the height of water in the tube of the perforated box, but by weights acting on the arm of a balance, having its centre 15 inches under the surface of
a
stream moving three feet per second, to be 19,46 pounds; that of a cube of the same dimenfions was 15,22 ; and that of a prism three feet long was 13,87 ; that of a prism fix feet long was 14,27. The three sirst agree extremely well with the determination of
m
and
q,
by the experiments with the perforated box. The total resistance of the last was undoubtedly much increased by friction, and by the retrograde force of so long a prism floating in an in-clined stream. This last by computation is 0,223 pounds; this added to
h (m
-j- y), which is 13,59,gives l 3>θ1 , leaving 0,46 for the effect of friction.
If the same resistances be computed on the supposi-tion that the body moves in still water, in which case we have
m
= 1, and
q
for a thin plate = 0,433 » and 
if
q
be computed for the lengths of the other two bo-
dies by the formula 1 — L 1,42 +^^7- ; we shall get for
q    Vs
the resistances 14,94; 12,22 ; and 11,49.
Hence Mr Buat concludes, that the resistances in these two states are nearly in the ratio of 13 to ιo⅛ This, he thinks, will account for the difference ohser-ved in the experiments of different authors.
Mr Buat next endeavours to afeertain the quantity
of water
which
is made to adhere in some degree to a
body which is carried along thro’ still water, or which remains nearly stagnant in the midst of a stream. He takes the sum of the motions in the direction
of
the stream, viz. the sum of the actual motions of all those particles which have lost part of their motion, and he divides this sum by the general velocity of the stream. The quotient is equivalent to a certain quantity of water perfectly stagnant round the body, without being able to determine this with precilion, he observes, that it augments as the resistance diminishes ; for in the case of a longer body, the filaments are obferved to con-verge to a greater distance behind the body. The stagnant mass a-head of the body is more constant ; for the deflection and resistance at the prow are observcd not to be affected by the length of the body. Mr Buat, by a very nice analysis of many circumstances, comes to this conclufion, that the whole quantity of fluid, which in this manner accompanies the solid body, re-mains the same whatever is the velocity. He might have deduced it at once, from the constderation that the curves described by the filaments are the same in all ve-locities.
He then relates a number of experiments made to s certain the absolute quantity thus made to accompany the body. These were made by causing pendulums to oscillate in fluids. Newton had determined the re-sistances to fuch oscillation by the diminution of the arches of vibration. Mr Buat determines the quantity of dragged fluid by the increase of their duration ; for this stagnation or dragging is in fact adding a quantity of matter to be moved, without any addition to the moving force. It was ingeniously observed by Newton, that the time of oscillation was not fensibly affected by the resistance of the fluid : a compenfation, almost complete, being made by the diminution of the arches of vihration ; and experiment confirmed this. If, there-fore, a great augmentation of the time of vibration be observed, it must be afcribed to the additional quantity of matter which is thus dragged into motion, and it may be employed for its meafurement. Thus, let a be the length of a pendulum swinging féconds in vacuo, and 
I
the length of a second’s pendulum swinging in a fluid. Let
p
be the weight of the body in the fluid, and P the weight of the fluid displaced by it j. P -j-
p
will ex-
P+λ
press its weight in vacuo, and ■ ∙~ will be the ratio p 4. A
of these weights. We shall therefore have ■—-    —
a - j ,
a P
I
and ∕- p+ ^.
Let
η
P
express the sum of the fluid difp!⅛ced, and the fluid dragged along,
n
being a number greater than unity, to be determined by experiment. The mass in motion is no longer
P -f-
py
but
P
4-
η
P,
while its weight in the fluid is still
ρ.
Therefore we naust have
, a P    “_ , _( ∕a ∖
l ~nPJr p=
   P V~"~1 )'
P +
A prodigious number of experiments· made by Mr
Baat on spheres vibrating in water gave values of », which were very constant, namely, srom 1,5 to 1,7 ; and by considering the circumstances which accompa-nied the variations of
n (
which he found to arise chief
ly from the curvature of the path described by the
ball), he stAtes the mean value
of
the number
n
at 1,583. So that a sphere in motion drags along with it about -1 ⅞ of its own bulk of fluid with a velocity equal to its own.
He made similar experiments with prisms, pyramids, and other bodies, and found a complete confirmation of his affertion, that prisms of equal lengths and sec-tions, though disshnilar, dragged equal quantities of fluid ; that similar prisms. and prisms not similar, but whofe length were as the square-root of their fictions, dragged quantities proportional to their bulks.
He found a general value of
n
for prismatic bodies, which alone may be considered as a valuable truth ;
Vz
ί
namely, that « = 0,705 — + 1,13.
From all these circumftances, we fee an intimate connection between the preffures, non∙preffures, and the fluid dragged along with the body. Indeed this 
is
immediately deducible from the sirst principles ; for what Mr Buat calls the
dragged fluid
is in fact a cer-tain portion of the whole change of motion produced in the direction of the bodies motion.
It was found, that with respect to thin planes, spheres, and pyramidal bodies of equal bafis, the resistances were inverfily as the quantities of fluid dragged along.
The inte∏igent reader will readily obferve, that these views of the Chevalier Buat are not so much discoveries of new principles as they are classisications of conse-quences, which may all be deduced from the general prin-¢iples employed by D’Alembert and other mathemati-cians. But they greatly assist us in forming notions of different parts of the procedure of nature in the mutual action of fluids and solids on each other. This raust be very acceptable in a subject which it is by no means probable that we shall be able to inveftigate with mathematical precision. we have given an account of these last observations, that we may omit nothing of confiquence that has been written on the subject ; and we take this opportunity of recommending the
Hydraulique
of Mr Buat as a most ingenious work, containing more original, ingenious, and practically useful thoughts, than all the performances we have met with. His doctrine of
the principle of uniform motion os βuids in pipes and open canals,
will be of immense fervice to all engi-F,eers, and enable them to determine with sussicient precision the moft important questions in their profession ; questions which at present they are hardly able to guess at. See
Rivers
and
WATER Works.
The only circumstance which we have not noticed in detail, is the change of resistance produced by the void, or tendency to a, void, which obtains behind the body ; and we omitted a particular difcussion, merely becauie 
we
could say nothing sussiciently precise on the subject. Perfons not accustomed to the difiussions in the physico-mathematical sciences, are apt to entertain doubts or falfi notions connected with this circumstance, which we shall attempt to remove ; and with this we shall conclude this long and unsatisfactory differtation.
If
a
fluid were perfectly incoropressible, and were contained in a vefftl incapable of extension, it is impossible that any void could be formed behind the body; and in this case it is not very easy to fie how motion could be performed in it. A sphere moved in such a medium could not advance the smallest distance, unless 
fame
particles of the fluid, in filling up the fpace left ⅜y it, moved with
a
velocity next to infinite. Some
degree os compreffibility, however small, scems
neces
lary. If this be insensible, it may be rigidly demonstrated, that an external force of compression will make no
senfible
change in the internal motions, or in the resistances. r Γhis indeed is not obvious, but is an immediate consequence of the
quaquaverpum
preffure of fluids. As much as the pressiire
is
augmented by the externaI compressions on one side of a body, fo much is
it
augmented on the other side ; and the fame must be faid of every particle. Nothing more is neceffary for ficuring the same motions by the same partial and internal forces; and this is fully verified by experiment, water re-mains equally fluid under any compreffion3. In some of Sir Isaac Newton’s experiments balls of four inches diameter were made so light as to preponderate in wa-ter only three grains. '1 hese balls defcended in the same manner as they would have defcended in a fluid where the resistance was equal in every part ; yet, when they were near the bottom of a vestel nine feet deep, the compression round them was at last 2400 times the moving force ; whereas, when near the top of the veffel, it was not above 50 or 60 times.
But in a fluid sensibly compressible, or which is not confined, a void may be left behind the body. Its motion may be so swift that the surrounding preffure may not suffice for filling up the deserted space ; and, in this case, a statical preffure will be added to the resistance. This may be the case in a veffel or pond of water having an open surface expofed to the finite or limited preffure of the atmosphere. The queftion now is, whe-ther the resiftance will be increafid by an increase of external preffure ? Supposing a sphere moving near the surface os water, and another moving equally fast at four times the depth. If the motion be so swift that a void is formed in both cases, there is no doubt but that the sphere which moves at the greatest depth is most resisted by the preffure of the water. If there is no void in either cafi, then, because the quadruple depth would cause the water to flow in with only a double velocity, it would seem that the resiftance would be greater ; and indeed the water flowing in laterally with a double velocity produces a quadruple non-preffure.— But, on the other hand, the preffure at a small depth may be insufficient for preventing a void, while that below effectually prevents it ; and this was obfirved in some experiments of Chevalier de Borda. The effect, therefore, of greater immeriion, or of greater compression, in an elastic fluid, does not follow a precise ratio os the preffure, but depends partly on absolute quantities. It cannot, therefore, be ftated by any very simple formula what increase or diminution of resistance will result from a greater depth ; and it is chiefly on this account that experiments made with models of ships and mills are not conclusive with respect to the performance of a large machine of the same proportions, without corrections, sometimes pretty intricate, we affert, however, with great confidence, that this is of all methods the most exact, and infinitely more certain than any thing that can be deduced from the most elaborate calculation from theory. If the resistances at all depths be equal, the proportionality of the total resistance to the body is exact, and perfectly conformable to obfirvation<,
It is only in great velocities where the depth has any material influence, and the influence is not near so con-siderable as we should, at sirst light, suppofi ; for, in estimating the effect
oi
immersion, which has a relation
to the difference of pressure, we must always take in the preffure of the atmosphere ; and thus the preffure at 33 feet deep is not 33 times the preffure at one foot deep, but only double, or twice as great. The atmo-fpheric preffure is omitted only when the resisted plane is at the very furface. D’Ulloa, in his
Examino Mori· timo,
has introduced an equation expressing this relation ; but, except with very limited conditions, it will misiead us prodigiously. To give a general notion of its foundation, let AB (sig. 23.) be the fiction of a plane moving through a fluid in the direction CD, with a known velocity. The fluid will bc heaped up before it above its natural level CD, becaufe the water will not be pushed before it like a solid body, but will be push-ed aside. And it cannot acquire a lateral motion any other way than by an accumulation, which will diffuse itfilf in all directions by the law of undulatory motion. The water will also be left lower behind the plane, becaufe time
muβ
elapse before-the preffure of the water behind can make it fill the space. We may acquire some notion of the extent os both the accumulation and depression in this way. There is a certain
<υ1
depth CF (= —, where ∙υ is the velocity, and ;· the
accelerating power of gravity) under the surface, fucsh that water would flow through a hole at F with the velocity of the plane’s motion. Draw a horizontal line FG. The water will certainly touch the plane in G, and we may suppose that it touches it no higher up. Therefore there will be a hollow, fuch as CGE. The elevation HE will be regulated by confiderations nearly fimilar. ED muff be equal to the velocity of the plane, and HE asust be its productive height. Thus, if the velocity ¢ff the plane be one foot
per
feeond, HE and EG will be -,⅛of an inch. This is snssicient (though not exact) for giving us a notion of the thing. We fie that from this must arise a preffure in the direction DC, viz. the preffure of the whole column HG.
Something of the same kind will happen although thc plane AB be wholly immerged, and this even to fome depth, we fie such elevations in a swift running stream, where there are large ftones at the bottom.— This occafions an excels of preffure in the direction op-posite to the plane’s motion ; and we see that there must, in every case, be a relation between the velocity and this excess of pressure. This D’Ulloa expresses by an equation. But it is very exceptionable, not taking properly into the account the comparative facility with which the water can heap up and dissuse itfilf. It must always heap up till it acquires a sussicient head of water to produce a lateral and progressive dissufion sufficient for the purpofe. It is evident, that a smaller elevation will sussice when the body is more immerfid, becaufe the check or impulfi given by the body below is propagated, not vertically only, but in every direction ; and therefore the elevation is not confined to that part of the surface which is immediately above the moving body, but extends so much farther laterally as the centre of agitation is deeper : Thus, the elevation necessary for the passage of the body is so much smaller ; and it is the
height
only of this accumulation or wave which de-termines the backward pressure on the body. D’Ulloa’s equation may happen to quadrate with two experiments 
at
different depths, without being nearly just ; for
any two
points may
be
in
a
curves without exhibiting its
equation. Three points will do it with some approach to precifion ; but four, at least, are necessary for giving any notion of its nature. D’Ulloa has only given two experiments, which we mentioned in another place.
we may here observe, that it is this circumstance which immediately produces the great resistance to the motion of a body through a fluid in a narrow canal.—. The fluid cannot pass the body, unless the area of thc fiction be sufficiently extensive. A narrow canal pre-vents the extension sidewise. The water must therefore heap up, till the fiction and velocity of dissuston are sussiciently enlarged, and thus a great backward pressure is produced. (See the ficondfiries of Experiments by the French Academicians ; fie also Franklin’s Essays.) It is important, and will be considered in another place,.
T h us have we attempted to give our readers some account of one of the most interesting problems in the whole of mechanical philosophy. we are sorry that so little advantage can be derived from the united efforts of the .first mathematicians of Europe, and that there is so little hope of greatly improving our scientific knowledge of the subjtct. what we have delivered will, however, enable our readers to perufi the writings of thofi who have applied the theories to practical pur-pofis. Such, for instance, are the treatifis of John Bernoulli, of Bouguer, and of Euler, on the construc-tion and working of ihips, and the occastonal disserta-tions of different authors on water-mills. In this last application the ordinary theory is not without its value, for the itnpulses are nearly perpendicular ; in which case they do not materially deviate from the duplicate proportion of the fine of incidence. But even here this theory, applied as it commonly is, miileads us exceedingly. The impulse on one float may be accurately enough stated by it ; but the authors have not been attentive to the motion of the water after it has made its impulfi ; and the impulse on the next float is stated the same as if the parallel filaments of water, which were not stopped by the preceding float, did impinge on the oppofite part of the ficond, in the same manner, and with the same obliquity and energy, as if it were detached srom the rest. But this does not in the least re-fcmble the real process of nature.
Suppose the floats B, C, D, H (fig. 24.) os a wheel immersed in a stream whose surface moves in the direction AK, and that this surface meets the float B in E. The part B E alone is supposed to be impelled ; whereas the water, checked by the float, heaps up on it to
e.—∙ 
Then drawing the horizontal line BF, the part CF of the next float is suppofid to be all that is impelled by the parallel filaments of the stream ; whereas the water bends round the lower edge of the float B by the fur-rounding pressure, and riles on the float
c
all the way to
f.
In like manner, the float D, instead of receiving an impulse on the very fmall portion D G, is impelled all the way from D to
g,
not much below the lurface of the stream. The surfaces impelled at once, therefore, greatly exceed what this siovenly application of the theory supposes, and the whole impulse is much greater; but this is a fault in the application, and not in the theory. It will not be a very difficult thing to acquire a knowledge of the motion of the water which has passed the preceding float, which, though not accurate, will yet approximate considerably to the
truth;
and
then the
ordinary theory will furnish
maxims
of con· ftruction which will be very serviceable. This will be attempted in its proper place ; and we shall endeavour, in our treatment of all the practical questions, to derive useful information from all that has been delivered on the present occasion.
RESOLUTION √Ιdeδs. See
Logic,
Parti, ch. 3,
Resolution, in music. To
resolve
a discord or dis-sonauce, fays Rouffeau, is to carry it according to rule into a consonance in the subsequent chord. There is for that purpofe a procedure prescribed, both for the fundamental bass of the diffonant chord, and for the part by which the diffonance is formed.
There is no possible manner of resolving a diffo-nance which is not derived from an operation of cadence: it is then by the kind of cadence which we wish to form, that the motion of the fundamental bass is de-termined, (see Cadence), with respect to the part by which the disibnance is formed, it ought neither to continue in its place, nor to move by disjointed gra-dations ; but to rise or descend diatonically, accord-ing to the nature of the diffonance. Theorists say, that major diffonances ought to rise, and minor to de-scend ; which is not however without exception, since in particular chords of harmony, a seventh, although major, ought not to rise, but to descend, unless in that chord which is, very incorrectly, called
the chord of the seventh redundant.
It is better then to say, that the seventh and all its derivative diffonanees ought to descend ; and that the sixth snperadded, and all its de-rivative diffonances, should rise. This is a rule truly general, and without any exception. It is the same cafe with the rule of resolving diffonances. There are some diffonances which cannot be prepared ; but there is by no means one which ought not to be resolved.
with respect to the sensible note, improperly called a
major disfonance,
if it ought to ascend, this is less on account of the rule for resolving diffonanees, than on account of that which prescribes a diatonic procedure, and prefers the shortest road ; and in reality, there are cases, as that of the interrupted cadence, in which this fensible note does not ascend.
In chords by supposition, one single chord often produces two diffonances ; as the seventh and ninth, the ninth and fourth, &c.· Then these two diffonances ought to have been prepared, and both muff iikewise be resolved ; it is because regard should be paid to every thing which is discordant, not only in the fun-damental, but even in the continued bass.
Resolution, in chemistry, the reduction of a mixed body into its component parts or sirst principles, as far as can be done by a proper analysis.
Resolution,
in medicine, the disappearshg of any tumor without coming to fuppuration or forming an abscess.
RESOLVENTS, in medicine, such as are proper for dissipating tumors, without allowing them to come to fuppuration.
RESONANCE, Resounding, in music, &c.
a
found returned by the air inclosed in the bodies of stringed instruments, such as lutes, &c or even in the bodies of wind-shstruments, as flutes, &c.
RESPIRATION, the act of refpiring or breathing
the air. See
Anatomy, n
θ 118. Blood, n 29. Medicine,
n' 104.
Physiology,
Sect. I.and
Pvtrefac∙>
tion
pajfim,
Respirationo/
F'ι∕hes.
See
Ichthyology, n
0 7, 8, 9.
RESPITE, in law, signifies a delay, forbearance, cr prolongation of time, granted to any one sor the pay-ment of a debt or the like. See Reprieve.
RESPONDENT,, in the schools, one who main-tains a thelis in any art or seience ; who is thus called from his being to answer all the objections proposed by the opponent.
RESPONDENTIA. See
Bottomry.
RESPONSE, an answer or reply. A word chiefly used in speaking of the answers made by the people to the priest, in the litany, the psalms, &c.
RESSORT, a Ftench word, sometimes used by En-glish authors to signify the jurisdiction of a court, and particularly one from which there is no appeal. — Thus it is said, that the house of lords judge
en dernier reffort, 
or in the last reffυrt.
REST, the continuance of a body in the same place, or its continual application or contiguity to the same parts of the ambient or contiguous bodies ; and therefore is opposed to motion. See the article Mo-TION.
Rest, in poetry, is a short pause of the voice in reading, being the same with the cæfura, which, in Alexandrine verses, falls on the sixth syllable ; but in verses of 10 or 11 syllables, on the fourth. See Poetry, Part III.
REST-HARROW, or Cammock,
the Ononis Λr-venfis.
A decoction of this plant has been much re-commended to horses labouring under a stoppage of urine. It is the pest of some corn-fields ; but in its-younger state, before the plant has acquired its thorns, it is a most acceptable food to shccp.
RESTAURA ΓΙΟΝ, the act of re-establishshg βr fetting a thing or person in its former good state.
REST 10, in botany ; a genus of the triandria or-der, belonging to the diœcia class of plants. The male calyx is an ovate spike of membranaceous scales ; the corolla is proper, hexapetalous, and persistent. The fe-male calyx and corolla are as in the male ; the germen is roundish, and lex∙fulcated ; there are three erect and persistent styles ; the capsule is roundish, with fix plaits, and is rostrated and trilocular; the feeds are oblong and cylindrical.
RESTITUTI0N, in a moral and legal sense, is restoring a person to his right, or returning something unjustly taken or detained from him.
Restitution of Medals,
or
Refiitυted Medals,
is a term used by antiquaries for such medals· as were struck by the emperors, to retrieve the memory of their pre-dect’ffors.
Hence, in several medals, we find the letters rest.. This practice was sirst begun by Claudius, by his stri-king afresh several medals of Augustus. Nero did the same ; and Titus, after his father’s example, struck re-stitutions of most of his predeceffors. Gallienus struck a general restitution of all the preceding emperors on two medals ; the one bearing an altar, the other an eagle, without the rest.
RESTIVE, or
Re sty,
in the manege, a stubborn? unruly, ill-broken hoisse, that stops, or runs back, instead of advancing forward.
REST0RATI0N, the same with restauration. See
Restauration.
In England, the return of king Charles II. in 1660, is, by way of eminence, called the
Reβoration ;
and the 29th of May is kept as an anniversary festival, in com-memoration of that event, by which the regal and epis-∙copal government was restpred.
RESTORATIVE, in medicine, a remedy proper for reftoring and retrieving the strength and vigour both of the body and animal spirits.
All under this class, fays Quincy, are rather nutri-mental than medicinal ; and are more administered to repair the wastes of the constitution, than to alter and rectify its disorders.
RESTRICTION, among logicians, is limiting a term, so as to make it signify less than it usually does.
RESTRINGENT, in medicine,' the same with astringent. See
Astringents.
RESULT, what iβ gathered from a conference, inquiry, meditation, or the like ; or the conclufion and effect thereof.
RESURRECTION, in theology, is a rifiιιg again srom the ftate of the dead and is that event, the be-lief of which constitutee one of the principal articles in the Chrittian creed.
In treating of this object of our faith, it has been usual to mention, sirst, the resurrection of our Bleffed X„ord, with the character of the witneffes, and the authenticity of the gospel history by which it has been proved, and from which, as a consequence, ours is inferred. But as most of the arguments for his resurrec-tion are contained in the gospels, and as merely to re-peat them would afford, we hope, but little informa-tion to most of our readers, we mean here to take a view of the several grounds on which the belief of a future existence is supposed to be founded ; to collect together some of the sentiments of authors and nations concerning the place where departed fpirits reside ; concerning the nature of their present state ; concerning the kinds of their future destination ; that we may afterwards see how far their notions differ and agree with what we consider as the doctrines of Scripture.
Cf a future state, there have sometimes been found a few wandering and obscure tribes who seemed to enter-tain no notion at all ; though it should be remarked, that some os these were likewise observed in so low a degree os savage barbarity as not to be acquainted with the use os the bow, the dart, or the sling, and as not knowing how to wield a club, or to throw a stone, as a weapon of defence *.
wherever the human mind has been cultivated, or properly speaking, begun to be cultivated, the opinion has likewise generally prevailed that human existence is not confined to the present scene ; nay, so very gene-ral has this notion been found among mankind, that many are puzzled how to account for what they suppose to be almost next to its universality.
To explain the phenomenon, some have imagined that it is a notion derived by tradition from primeval re-velation. They suppofe that the first parent of mankind, as a moral agent accountable for his conduct, was informed by his Maker of every thing which it was of importance for him to know ; that he must have been acquainted with this doctrine of a future state in parti-cular j and that he could hardly fail to communicate a matter fo interesting to his posterity.
They
suppos¢, too, that the history of the tranflatioa of Enoch must have made a great noife in the world, and that the re-membrance of it must have been long retained and widely dissused ; and they find in the book of Job plain intimations of a resurrection from the dead, which, from the manner in which they are introduced, they think that very ancient patriarch must have received through this channel.
It is not thought to be any objection to these fuppo∙ sitions, that the Most High, when delivering his laws from the top of Mount Sinai, did not enforce them by the awful fonctions of a future state. The intelligent reader of the Scriptures knows that the fonctions of a future state belong to a different and more universal dis-pensation than was that of Moses ; that the primeval revelation related to that dispenfotion ; and that the Jewish law, with its temporal fonctions, was introduced only to preserve the knowledge and worsh¾p of the true God among a people too gross in their conceptions to have been properly influenced by the view of future rewards and punishments, of fuch a nature as eye hath not feen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man to conceive. He fees at the same time, everywhere scattered through the old Testament, plain indications of the Mosaic economy, being no more than preparatory to the bringing in of a better hope ; and he thinks it evident, that such Jews as understood any thing of the nature of that better hope, must have been convinced, that, however the
ceremonial rites
of
their 
religion might be sussiciently guarded by temporal sanc-tions, the
fundamental principles
of
all
religion and virtue are supported by rewards and punishments to be dispen-sed in a state beyond the grave. See
Prophecy
and 
Theology.
That the progenitors of the human race must have been inspired by their Creator with the knowledge of their immortality, and of every thing necessary to their everlasting welfare, cannot, we should think, be ques-tioned by any one who believes that the world had a beginning, and that it is under the government of good-ness and justice. The progress from senfe to science is so flow, that however capable we may suppose the ear-liest inhabitants of this earth to have been of making philofophical difeoveries, we cannot believe that the Father of mercies left his helpless creature to difeover for himself his future existence. Death, when first presented to him, must have been a ghastly object ; and had he been left without any hope of redemption from it, he would undoubtedly have funk into listlessdespondency.
But a prospect of immortality is so pleafing to the human mind, that if it was communicated to the first
man, it would of course be cherished by his posterk ty ; and there is no difficulty in conceiving how it might be handed down by tradition to very remote ages, among such of his defeendents as were not scattered over the face of the earth in small and savage tribes.—> In the courfe of its progress, it would frequently be new-modelled by the ever active imagination ; and at last many absurd and fantastic circumstances would doubtlefs be combined with the original truth, that death puts not an end to human existence.
But though we are firmly convinced that the
flrst
principles of ufeful knowledge, and among them the doctrine of
a
future state, were communicated to man
by his Maker ; and though this doctrine, in large and permanent societies, might certainly be conveyed more or less pure to late posterity through the channel of tra-dition—we are far from attributing so much to tradition as fome writers are difposed to do, or thinking it the only fource from which mankind could derive the belief of their existence beyond the grave. In fmall tribes of savages such a tradition could hardly be preserved ; and yet some indistinct notions of a future state have been found among tribes who are said to have lost all tradi-tionary notions even of the being of a God.
others, therefore, are inclined to believe that, in-dependent of any traditions, mankind might be led by certain phenomena to form some conjectures of a future 1 ftate. They observe, that although a few individuals perhaps may, yet it seldom happens that the whole individuals of any nation are exempted from dreaming : They observe, too, and this observation is founded on experience, that the images of the dead are from the remaining impressions of memory frequently summoned up in the fancy ; and that it appears from all the lan-guages of rude nations, who pay the greatest attention to their dreams, and who speak of feeing the dead in their visions, that these images ( A ) have always been taken by them for realities ; nay, some of the learned, and the celebrated Baxter is of the number, are dispo-sed to doubt whether these appearances be not some-thing more than illusions of the brain : But whether they really be so or not, one thing is certain, that all nations in all countries, in the darkest ages and the ru-dest periods, are accustomed to dream ; and whether sleeping or waking, in the stillness of the night, in the gloom of solitude, in the fondness of friendship, in the rovings of love, the delirium of fever, and the anguish of remorfe,l to see and converse with the shades of the departed; and Lucretius * has remarked,, that even the inferior animals are not exempted from such illusions of 
a
restless fancy.
Fβr often sleeping racers pant and fweat,
Breathe short, as if they ran their second heat ;
As if the barrier down with eager pace
They stretch’d, as when contending for the race.
And often hounds, when sleep hath clos’d their eyes>
They toss, and tumble, and attempt to rise ;
They open often, often snuff the air,
As if they prest the footsteps of the deer ;
And sometimes wak’d, pursue their fancy’d prey,
The fancy’d deer, that scem to run away,
Till quite awak’d, the follow’d shapes decay,
And softer curs, that lie and sleep at home,
Do often rouse, and walk about the room,
And'bark, as if they saw some strangers come?
And birds will start, and seek the woods, by night,} whene’er the fancy’d hawk appears in fight,    
Ç
Whene’er they see his wing or hear him fight.    
j
Çkbech.
These powers of fancy extend wide over animal crea
tion ; and it is
on
this general principle that necr<s-mancers and dreamers have in all ages established their trade, that the stories of goblins have at all times so very easily procured belief, and that
The village matron, round the blazing hearth, Suspends the infant audience with her tales, Breathing astonishment ! Qf witching rhymes And evil spirits ; of the deathbed call of him who robb’d the widow and devour’d The orphan’s portion ; of unquiet fouls Ris’n from the grave to ease the heavy guilt of deeds in life' conceal’d ; of shapes that walk At dead of night, and clank their chains, and wave The torch of hell around the murderer’s head.
Aikenside.
Mankind in general would willingly dsspense with these troublesome visits of the dead. To prevent the return of the
zumbi
or the ghost, fome nations of Afri-ca ufe many superstitious rites*; and Kolben tells usr  that the frighted Hottentots leave in the hut where a person has died all the utensils and furniture, lest the angry ghost, incensed at their avarice, should haunt them in their dreams, and infest. them in the night. Divines and moralists have laboured to show that these are merely imaginary terrors: but God and nature seem to have determined that they shall produce the same effects upon certain minds as if they were real y and that while there is any sensibility in the heart, while there is any remembrance of the past, and any conju-ring power in the fancy ; the ignorant, the benighted, the timid, shall often meet with the goblins of darkness, the spectres of the tomb, the apparitions that hover round the grave, and the forms of the dead in the midnight dream. See Spectre.
From these phenomena, which have been fo common in all countries and in all ages, what- would mankind naturally infer ? would they not infer, that there is something in the nature of man that survives death, and that there is a future state of existence beyond sthc grave ? Are not still many specimens of this reafoning preferved in the ancient poets ? and is it not thus that Achillesf reafons after imagining that he faw the ghost 
of
his friend Patroclus ?
, Tis true, ’tis certain, man, though dead, retains
Part of himself ; the immortal mind remains :
The form subsists without the body’s aid,
Aerial semblance, and an empty shade.
This night my friend, so late in battle Iost,
Stood at my side- a penfive plaintive ghost j
Ev’n now familiar as in life he came,
Alas! how diff’rent, yet how like the same.
Pope,
Lucretius*, a studious observer of nature, though no friend to the soul’s immortality, acknowledges frankly that these phantoms often terrify the mind, haunt us in our sleep, and meet us while awake. He confeffes, too, that by such appearances mankind have been led
(a)
These images were called by the Greeks E∙J, ωλ*
Garni»,
; and among the Romans they had various names, as
umbra, lemures, manes, larvœ,
and were sometimes called
occursacula noctium, buβorum fornddamina3 fepukhrt}-> 
rum temculamenta9 animœ errantes,
which are all comprehended under the
species τnortuorum,
to believe the future existence of the soul; but, aware ot the consequence,
-Ne forte animas richer unie rearnur
Rjfogere, aut umbras inter vivos vo(ιtare,
he endeavours to explain these curious phenomena on sorne of the odd and fantastic principles of the Epicureans. In doing this, however, he pretends not to deny that these images appear to be real ; but candidly .acknowledges that
---They strike and shake
The airy soul, as when we are awake, with stroke fo lively, that we think we view The absent dead, and think the image true.
Creech.
we here see how the belief of the foul’s immortality came to be general among mankind. But for this information we are much more indebted to the poets, who have given us faithful transcripts of nature, than to the philosophers who have wished to entertain us with their own theories, or to those laborious men ot erudition, who have dreaded as much to examine the source of an ancient report as the friends of Ulysses to approach the coast of Cimmerian darknefs. with them tradition is the ultimate boundary of research : and as gorgons, chimeras, and hydras, have come down to us by tradition ; so they, with great sagacity, sus pect, that tradition must likewise be at the bottom of the soul’s immortality, and occasion the visions and phantoms of the dead.
To tradition we have allowed all that it can justly claim ; but we cannot allow it to be the only source of this opinion : -and we have felt the highest indignation upon hearing men of learning and genius affirm, from a salse zeal for the honour of revelation, that mankind, without this instruction, could never have acquired the art of building huts to screen them from the cold, ©r have learned the method of propagating their species ! The reader must not here fuppose that we allude to Polydore virgil (b). λVe have in our eye persons now alive, with whom we have converged on the subject, and who (terrifiedat the length to which some philosophers have carried the doctrine of instincts, and others the reasoning powers of the mind) have contended, with the utmost earnestnefs, that we know nothing—not even the functions of our animal nature—but by tradition or written revelation.
Having now seen the source of the opinion concerning the future existence of the soul, and pointed out the natural phenomena by which mankind were led to embrace it, we come next to review the arguments by which the philosophers attempted to confirm it.
Pythagoras believed, with the rest of his country,
that
annihilation was never the end, and that nonentity was never the beginning, of any thing that is. His general doctrine upon this subject was shortly expressed in very few words,
Omnia mutantur, nihil interit.
He afterwards learned from Egyptian priests that the foul migrates into new bodies ; and being, it seems, a person of a most extraordinary and astonishing memory, he found there was some truth in the story: for after musing, he began to remember that he was Euphorbus, the ion, of Pan-theus, that was siain by Menelaus in the Trojan war ; and upon a jaunt to Peloponnesus, recollected the shield which he had worn
at
the time of the siege, in o⅛ne of the temples of Juno at Argos ! That none might question the truth of his assertion, his followers presently removed all doubts by the famous argument, the ipse dixit of Egyptian origin.
As Pythagoras taught that human souls are frequent-ly thrust into brute shapes, and, as some imagined, by way of punishment; it occurred to Plato, that all bodies, even the human, are a fort of prisons ; and that, in confequence of this confinement, the foul was subjected to the rage of desire, appetite, and paffion, and to all the wretched miseries of a jail. To explain this my-stery, he fupposed that desires and appetites belong to a foul that is purely animal residing in the body. But he was perplexed with another difficulty ; for as he thought highly of the goodnefs of Deity, he could not imagine how he should imprifon us without a crime. He supposed, therefore, that prior to its union with the present body the foul had existed in one of ether, which it still retains; but that even in this etherialbody it had felt something of impure desire ; and happening to indulge the vicious appetite, had contracted some stains of pollution, for which it was confined in its present body as a house of correction to do penance and improve its morals.
To prove this ideal pre-existence of the foul, Plato availed himfelf of an opinion that was general in his time, that coincided with the doctrines of Pythagoras, and that was partly founded on a fort of reasoning and obfervation. He thought that matter and intelligence are coeternal (fee Platonism.) ; that there are various orders of souls ; that those of both the man and the brute are parts or emanations (c) of the
anima rnundji 
or soul of the world ; that all are ultimately parts or emanations of Deity itself ; and that all their faculties are more or lefs restricted and confined, according to those organised systems with which they are connected. Know first (says one delivering his doctrines),
Know first, that heav’n and earth’s compacted frame,.
And flowing waters, and the starry flame,
And both the radiant lights, one common soul
Inspires, and feeds, and animates, the whole.
(b)
   This writer allots part of a chapter to (how, " Quis primum instituerit artem meretriciam,” as being, ■in his opinion, a traditionary practice. See Lib- iii. cap. 17.
De Rerum Inventοribus.
(c)    
Γhe Deity was conceived by the ancients fometimes as a solid, when inferior souls were called 
ατοα-ττχσμχία. I. e.
fragments or parts broken off from him ; and sometimes as a fluid, when they were confidered as α -ropp9iα∕ or emanations : but from none of these hypotheses did they reason consequentially. Their
a*or*M<r∕tMlΛ 
were often after death reunited to the Deity; and their
<χyppf>o}χι
often remained separate and diftiι>ct for a long while, without flowing back as they ought to have done, and mingling with, the great ocean os spirit.
Th is active mind, infus’d through all the space,
Unites and mingles with the mighty mass :
Hence men and beasts the breath of life obtain,
And birds of air, and monsters of the main ;
The ethereal vigour is in all the same,
And every foul is fill’d with equal flame ;
As much as earthy limbs, and gross allay    
Ί
of mortal members, subject to decay,    >
Blunt not the beams of heav'sh and edge of day
(d).
j
Dryden.
Besides this hypothesis, that in some measure was common to others, Plato had an argument peculiarly his own. Happening to peep into the region of me-t<ιphyfics, he was somewhat surprised on observing the ideas which we derive from reflection and consciousness; and supposing that they could not have entered by the senses, he naturally, though not very justly, concluded, that we must have received them in some state of prior existence.
As, according to him, the foul was eternal, as well as the matter which composed the body, and as thcir union was only temporary and accidental, he might have been satisfied that the death of the soul was not to be the consequence of their separation. But, some how or other, satisfied he was not. He had recourse to a new argument. As the soul, he faid, was an active principle, and a self-moving, it did not depend for its life on another ; and therefore would always continue to exist, though the body were reduced to the general mafs out of which it was formed. See
Metaphysics, 
Part III. chap. iv.
whether Plato had borrowed any of his doctrines from the eastern magi, we pretend not to fay. AVe on-ly obferve a striking limilarity, in fome respects, between his and theirs. In Plato’s philosophy, the sun, moon, and stars, were animated beings, and a fort of divinities that originally had sprung from the great fountain of Jιeat.and light, and our earthly bodies a fort of dungeons in which our miferable fouls are benighted and debafed by desires, appetites, and passions. In the ma-.gian philosophy, the Supreme Being was called
Oromas-■des ;
was the god of light, or was light itself, and re-presented by Mithras, a subordinate divinity, and the same with the fun. Another deity of very great power was Arimanes, the god of darkness, who presided over matter, and was the origin of all evil (see
Polytheism).
The ancient Gndstics, who derived their tenets from this fource, believed, with Pythagoras and Plato, in
a 
great number of subordinate genii ; and said, that De-miurgus, the god of matter and the soul or spirit of this world, had contrived the bodies of men and brutes; and in the former particularly, as in fo many prisons, had confined
a
number of celestial spirits, that by expofing them to the low desires of appetite and passion, he might feduce them from their allegiance to the God of light, and render them more fubmissive to himself. From these prisons the Supreme Being was continually making attempts to rescue them; and in the mean time was frequently fending divine meffengers to en-lighten and instruct them, and to render them capable os returning to the regions of light and happiness, to which they had belonged
(e).
'Γhe Stoics attempted to simplify this system, which appears anciently to have pervaded Egypt and the east, and which would secm to be no more than variously modified by orpheus, Pythagoras, Plato, and others of the more northerly and western nations. None of them allowed a creation out of nothing; and the shapingand modelling of matter into forms was variousiy explained, according as they happened to be most addicted to superstition, to morals, or to phyfics. Some afcribed these operations to ancient Time, Chaos, and Darkness, and explained the future changes in nature by the genealo-gies of these deities ; some obferving attraction and repulsion, or at least a fort of agreement and discor-dance among bodies, were inclined to afcribe them to Friendship and Hatred, or Love and Antipathy ; some observing, that while one body rose another defcended, made Levity and Gravity primary agents ; and some taking notice that living bodies sprung from corruption, were disposed to confer the same powers on Moisture and Heat.
The phyfical hypotheses were what had most charms for the Stoics. From their system immaterial beings were openly excluded ; all things were regulated by phyfical laws or inexorable fate ; and all things origi-nated in the To 'Ey or the
Firβ One,
which was probably suggested by the of Pythagoras. This l o 'e >, ap-pears to have been a
materia prima
devoid of all the qualities of body. In their language it was an
^ρχn
or 
βrβ principle,
not subject to change, when it was invested with the properties of body, it then became
(d)
   The general doctrine, as delivered here in these verses of virg∏, is the same with that not only of Pytha-goras, but os the Stoics.
(e)
   Plato made the stars the native residence of inferior souls; and when these were thoroughly purified below, returned them home again : and therefore, says virgil, alluding to his doctrine,
---— ■ —— Some have taught
That bees have portions of ethereal thought,
Endu’d with particles of heav’nly fires ;
For God the whole created mass inspires :
Thro’ heav’n, and earth, and ocean's depth, he throws His influence round, and kindles as he goes.
Hence flocks, and herds, and men, and beasts, and sowl¢, with breath are quicken’d, and attract their souls :
Hence take the forms his prescience did ordain,
Hnd into him at length resolve again.
No room is lest for death, they mount the sky,
And to thkir own congenial planets flÿ.    
Dryden,
¾ 275i^(∣->v or a ∏
element ;
and then, fo far as respected its qualities, especially its forms, it was subject to chan-gcs almost perpetual. The gods themselves and the fouls of men were in this fystem only modifications of matter (f). Man was composed of their four elements, Fire, Air, water, and Earth ; and upon diffolution, every part returned to the element from which it had come, as the water of a veffel swimming in the sea unites with the ocean when the veffel is broken. This fyftem, it is plain, cannct possibly admit of any separate confciousness of existence (c). The same may be foid of the systems of Deιnocrates and Epicurus, and all those who undertook to explain things upon physical principles (∏)∙ The chief merit of the phyfical systems appears to be this : Absurd as they were, it would seem from the whimsical and the almost childish reafoning of Lucretius, that they had a tendency to lead mankind srom extravagant hypotheses to something that was similar to observation.
what Aristotle thought of the separate existence of the soul after death is not very certain. The soul lie calls an Ev7sλe^s∣α ; and if the reader can divine the meaning of the word, he perhaps can divine the meaning of the
Stagy rite,
and will then be a better diviner than we. At other times he fays, that the soul is something divine ; that it resembles the element of the stars; that it is something of a fiery nature ; that it is the vicegerent ¢ff God in the body ; and that the acuteness of the senses, the powers of the intellect, with the various kinds of appetites, and passions, depend entirely on the qualities of the blood (ι),
Another opinion of very old date was that of the late ingenious Mr Hunter. According to him, the living principle resides in the blood. This opinion, which is mentioned by Moses, was adopted by Critias and others of the ancients. Harvey likewise embraced it. But Mr Hunter, who always wisned to be thought an original, inclines to stand at the head of the opinion, and supports. it by experiments similar to those of the famed Taliacotius in mending noses. Should any of our readers wisti to extract the foul’s immortality from such an opinion, we must refer them to the many resources of ingenuity, sophistry, and logic.
Among the Jews, the belief of a future and feparate existence for a long time was deemed no effential article of their creed. Some thought that the foul was a spark in the moving
cf
the heart ; some imagined
that it was 
the breath, and that upon the diffolution of the body it naturally vanished into soft air. The Sadducees denied the exiftence of either angel or lpirit. Many be-lieved the doctrine of ghosts, and were accustomed to invoke them at the grave. It is hence that we hear the prophets complaining that they were leeking from the living God unto dead men. Some imagined that there was a pre-existtnce of souls; and, in the case of a blind man, asked our Saviour, whether the man or his parents had finned that he was born blind ? others, inclined to a revolution, of soul and body, and thought that our Saviour was either Elias or one of the old prophets returned ; and a great many new-modelled; their opinion of the foul’s immortality according to certain paffages in Scripture. The inspired mother of Samuel had said, " The Lordki!leth and maketh alive: he bringeth down to the grave, and bringeth up.” Isaiah had exclaimed, " Thy dead shall live; together with my dead body shall they arife : Awake, and sing, ye that dwell in the dull ; for thy dew is as the dew of herbs,, and the earth shall cast out the dead.” Daniel had de-claredl , that many of them that sleep in the dust of theι  earth shall awake to everlasting life, and some to sharn¢ and everlasting contempt. In the vision of the valley, of dry bones, Ezekiel had seen that " at the word of the Lord” the bones came together, bone to his bone, the sinews and the flesh came upon them, and the skin covered them above, and the breath came into the bodies, and they lived, and stood upon their feet. And a. paffage of Job led them to suppose, that at some distant and future period a particular time, which wap called
the lajl
or the
Litter day,
was appointed by heaven for the general refuιτection of all those who are sleeping in their graves. “ I know ( says Job) my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth; and though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall' I fee God.”
whether these paflages were fairly interpreted agree-· ably to their true and original meaning, it is not here our business to inquire. It is suffieient for us to ob-serve, that from them many of the Jews inferred the reality of a general resurrection (κ). In this persua-sion, Martha, speaking of her brother Lazarus, says to our Lord, " I know that he shall rise again in the re-surrection at the last day.” This resurrection appears
( κ) The of the Stoics appears to be the same with the
IÀ
of the Chinefo∖
(g) Yet without regarding the inconsistency, many of the Stoics believed, that the foul continued separate· long after death ; though all in general seemed to deny a future state of rewards and punishments.
( h ) In his
Phyfical Cosmogony,
Plato differed but little from the Stoics ; but he had a∩otlrer fort of cosmogony, in which all things appear to have sprung from, and to be almost wholly compofed of, metaphysical entities, as ideas of forms, numbers, and mathematical figures. These kinds of notions were common both to him and Py-thagoras ; and were originally borrowed srom Egypt, where calculation and geometry were half deified. See Platonism.
( i)
The immortal Harvey has collected these different opinions of the Stagyrite in Exercit. 52»
De Generations ÂnirnaUurn.
(κ) At present some are for allowing only those of their own nation to share in the benefits of this refurrection ; and fome are not even for allowing them, except they be men of piety and virtue. To render this resurrection probable, the rabbins fay, with some of the Mahometans, that there is a certain bone in the body which resifts putrefaction, and serves as a feed for the next body*, what that bone is, is of no great moment, as any bone, we believe, in the skeleton will answer the purpose equally well, with refpect to the manner of tiffs resurrection, the learned Hody has quoted several opinions of the Jews, and, among others, that of the Chai-
to
haye beeħ a
general opinion among
the
Pharisees ; for although it was a notion of the sect of the Sadducees that there was no refurrectiûn, neither angel nor spirit, yet the Pharifees, we are told, confeffed both. And this affertion is plainly confirmed by St Paul him-self when his countrymen accufed him before Felix, " I confess unto thee (says this eminent apoftle), that after the way which they call heresy so worlhip I thc God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and in the prophets, and having hope toward God, which they theml¢lves also allow, that there shall be a refurrection of the dead, both of the just and un-just.”.
This resurrectiort of the dead to judgment, though not perhaps in the same sense in which the old Pharisees conceivfcd it, is now generally and almost universally (l) maintained by Christians (m). Yet the Christians differ considerably with respect to the nature of the human soul. Some imagine, that this spirit is naturally mortal, and that it is propagated along with the Body from the loins of the parent. In support of this opinion, it has been observed that a great number of infects and plants transfer their lives to their posterity, 
and
die foon after the act of propagation ; that after this act the vital principle is iu the most vigorous of plants and animals always found to be much exhausted; and that Tertullian a father of the church, in attempt-ing some experiments of the kind, became fubject to a momentary blindness, and felt a portion of his soul
going
out of him (n).
Tlrese imagine that immortality was only conditionally promifed to man ; that Adam forfeited this immortality by his disobedience ; and that Christ has testored lis to the hopes of it again by his sufferings and death : for as in Adam we have all died, so in Christ, they fay, we shall all be made alive,; and that now the sting is taken srom death, and the victory over our souls from the grave.
others have conceived the human soul as naturally -immortal, and as setting death and the grave at defiance. Adam, they say, died only in a figure ; and only from the consequences os this figure, which means
fin, has our Lord saved us. In this senfe Adam died on the very day in which he had fumed ; or he died literally in 1000 years, which with the Lord are as one day. To these arguments their opponents reply, what then is the victory* over death and the grave ? You must still have recourfe to a new figure, and betake yourselvefe to the second death ; though, after all, where is your grave ? To this it is answered, that the soul of itself ⅛ naturally immortal, and that it depends not either for its exiftence or the exercise of its faculties upon the body ; that the properties of matter, as figure, magnitude, and motion, can produce nothing that is like to per-ception, memory, and consciousness. This is true, rejoin their opponents ; but besides these few properties of matter, which are only the objects of that philosophf which has lately and properly been termed
mechanical, 
the chemical philosophy has discovered other properties of matter ; has found that matter is of various kinds ; that it very often does not act mechanically ; that it acquires many new properties by combination ; and that no man, till farther experiment and observation, should venture to affert how far the soul is or is not dependent on its present orgahised systenl. The others, proceeding on their hypothesis, maintain that the soul, as being immaterial, is not divisible; and though the body of a frog may live without the head for a whole day ; though the body of a tortoife may live without the head for a whole month ; though a human limb may for some mi-nutes after amputation continue to perform a vital motion, independent of a brain, a stomach, or a heart ; and though the parts of a plant, a polype, or a worm, may survive their ieparation and become living wholes*, yet the soul, they obferve, is not to be compared with the vital principles of plants and animals, nor ought to be divided on reafons so slender a8 those of analogy. Even granting, they say, that the foul were not naturally immortal of itself ; yet the justice of God, which is not remarkable for its equal distribution of rewards and pnnishments in the present world, is bound to make fome amends in the next. And to this again their opponents answer, as to the equal distribution of justice in a future world, of that we are affured on much bet
^cee paraphrast of the Canticles, afferting that the prophet Solomon had said, " when the dead (hall revive, it ihall come to pass that the Mount of olives shall be cleft, and all the dead of Israel shall come out from thence; 'and the just too that died in captivity shall come through the way of the caverns under the earth, and shall come forth out of the Mount of olives.” He has likewife quoted Saunderson’s voyage to the Holy Land, in which, we are told that many of the Jews, by their own account, are to rise up in the valley of Jehosaphet ; and that in the
row (ng
or
devolution
of the caverns, those at
a
distance must scrape their wav thither with their nails.
(l)
   The sect of the Quakers explain it figuratively,
(m)
   The last quoted author*
(Resurrection op the same Body, ajferted from the traditions of the Heathens, the ancient Jews, and the primitive Church}
has endeavoured to show that this doctrine, in the fame fense as we -understand it, has been afferted by the ancient magi, and by the present heathen gaurs of Perfia, the relics of the ancient magi ; by some of the ancient Arabians ; by some of the banians of India ; by the present inhabitants of the island of Ceylon, of Java, of Pegu, of Transiana ; by some amongst the Chinese ; by the Arderians in Guinea ; and by the ancient Prussians. The proofs which he brings, it must be confeffed, are not however always very fatisfactory. It appears, even, from h∣s own account, that some of these had derived their notions frorh certain Chriftians, Mahometans, or Jews. But the reader may judge of the great accuracy of his 1dea3 from his bringing old Pythagoras and the Stoics, and even Democritus and Epicurus, in support of the same or a £milar opinion.
(n)
   In illo ipso voluptatis ultima? æftu quo genitale virus expellitur, nonne aliquid de anima quoque sentimui <χire, at que adeo marceffimus-et devigescimus cunt lucis detrimcnto.
ter grounds
than any of
your*a : our Lord has declared
it in express terms ; and whether the soul be immortal or not, we can easily believe what he said is true, as we know him whom we have trusted.
These, with Plato, suppose, that the foul is here as in prifon ; though how or at what time it should sirst have come into this dungeon they have not determined. They have only agreed, that upon its enlargement all its faculties are to receive an increase cf power ; and " ha->i(ig already equipped it so exquisitely with consciousness, activity, and perception in and of itself, and put it into so complete a capacity for happinefs and misery in a separate state,” their hypothesis does not require them to admît the least occasion for a resurrection ; which accordingly is said to have been an article of Baxter’s creed (o).
A third opinion, which extends likewife to every spe-cies of plant and animal, is, that all souls were created at once with bodies of ether; that these bodies, occupying only
a
very small space, were packed up in their first progenitors, and there left to be afterwards evolved and clothed with matter of a grosser kind by acts of gene-ration and confequent nutrition. For the proof of this theory we are referred to the small animals seen through the microscope, and likewise to those which are suppo-sed to escape even microscopic observation ; but, above all, to the eggs of infects, which, though scarcely per-ceptshle, yet contain in embryo a future caterpillar and all its coats, and within these
a
future butterfly with its legs and wings. These philosophers can per-haps account for the general taint of original tin in fome other way than has hitherto been done, we have only to add, that on their fcheme the resurrection is not a matter that feems to be indifferent.
The next thing that falls to be considered is the place of the dead. From a natural enough association of ideas, an opinion had very early prevailed, that the spirit continued near to the body; and the offerings therefore intended for the dead were by most nations pre-sented at the grave ; and that on which the departed spirit is supposed to rest is always placed near the grave in China.
From the dreams of the night and the natural tendency of the fancy to work and to summon up spectres when the world around us is involved in darkness, it has also been imagined, that these spirsts delight in the night and shadow of death (p),or have been prohibited from enjoying the exhilarating beams of day. And hence we are told,
That in the difmal regions of the dead
Th’ infernal king once rais’d his horrid head ;
Leap’d from his throne, lest Neptune’s arm should lay
H is dark dominions open to the day,
And pour in light.
The nations, therefore, who have fancied a generaI receptacle for the dead, have thus been induced to
place it in the
west (qJ,
where the night
begins and
the day ends. That part of the world which, in the division of his father’s dominions, fell to Pluto the in-fernal god, and where, according to Lactantius, Satan holds the empire of darknefs, the Friendly Islanders have placed to the westward of a certain island which they call
Tejee. ;
some tribes of American Indians, in a country beyond the western mountains ; and Homer, somewhere to the westward of Greece at the boundaries of the ocean,
where in a lonely land and gloomy cells
The dusky nation of Cimmeria dwells ;
's'he sun ne’er views th’ uncomfortable feats when radiant he advances nor retreats.
Unhappy race ! whom endlefs night invades,
Clouds the dull air, and wraps them round in shades.
Another opinion entertained by the Greeks and fome other nations was, that the place of departed spirits is under the earth. This opinion is frequently mentioned in Homer, in virgil, and ; Jaded to by the Jewish prophets. As for the prophets, we know the circumstance from which they borrowed it : it was borrowed from thofe subterraneous vaults where their chiefs were bu-ried, and which have been described by modern travellers» In the sides of these caverns there is ranged a great number of cells; and in these cells the mighty lay in a fort of state, with their weapons of war and their swords at their head. To thefe kinds of Egyptian cemeteries Ezekiel alludes, when he says, " that they shall not lie with the mighty that are fallen of the uncircum-cifed, who are gone down to hell with their weapons of war, and they have laid their swords under their head.” And Isaiah, when thus speaking of the prince of Ba-bylon, " Thou shalt be brought down to hell,
to the sides of the pit.
Hell from beneath is moved for thee, to meet thee at thy coming ; it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the earth ; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations. All the kings of the nations, even all of them, lie in glory, every one in his own house.”
Many of the ancient fathers of the church asserted only, that the dead are now
in abditis receptaculis,
or in certain hidden and concealed places.
orpheus, o∏gen, and forne others of the fathers, with the ancient Caledonian bard ossian, and the learn-ed Dodwell among the moderns, imagined that the fouI, when it left the body, went into the air, and resided somewhere between the furfacc of the earth and the moon.
Those who believed in a transmigration caused the soul at death only to enter a new body, and kept the departed always with the living. This creed has been found in India, in Egypt, in Mexico, and in all those countries where picture-writing has been much used. In this species os writing, the same picture is on fancied analogy transferred by metaphor to signify ei-
(o)    
An Hiβorical View os the Controversy concerning an Intermediate State, anddhe Separate Exiβence of the Soul.
(p)    Some Turkish ghosts are an exception, who use lamps or candles in their tombs, when their friends-choose to supply them with thefe luxuries.
(g_) The
weβ
and
darkness
are synonymous in Homer.
il φ,∖0 ∣, « γaρ ι, l tμιι S*» ζo <f oς,
ouΓ
ox* t∣aς. (Odyfi
“ O my friends 1
which is the west, or which is the east, the place of darkness» or that of the morning, ∙ we cannot learn.’*
ther a god or a man, a brute or
a plantι j and
in
those countries where it was practised, men had usually their names from animals, and were represented by their st-gure in writing (r). From this last stage of the pι⅛)-cess, a transmigration was easily supposed : and hence we hear
of
the gods of Egypt wandering about like 
so
many vagrants in brute shapes, and of princes being translated into stars, because a star was their emblem in hieroglyphic, or stood for their name in figurative lan-guage. And, in like manner, we see, from the speci-men of this character -which is still preserved on ce-lestial globes, how the heavens aj first came to be filled with bears, seorpions, and dragons, and with a va-riety of other animals.
The opinions concerning the state of the dead are still more numerous than those concerning the place where they reiide. Rude nations have generally thought that the future state is limilar to the present; that plants, animals, and inanimate things there, have their shades ; and that these contribute as much to the pleasures and conveniences of the dead as their realities do to the li-ving ; that hushands have their wives (s), lovers their mistresses, warriors their battles, huntsmen their sport ; and that all their passions, amusements, and bufiness, are the same as formerly. For this reason, that the dead may not appear unprovided in the next world, like the ancient Gauls, some tribes of India, America, and Africa, bury with them in the same grave their wives, their arms, their favourite animals, and their neceffary utenfils.
Ί he ancient Egyptians, who believed in transmigra-tion, supposed that the soul was after death obliged to animate every species of bird and quadruped, of reptile and infect, and was not to return to a human form till after a period of 3500 years, others have confined their transmigrations to particular animals, as the soul os man to the human form, and the soul of the brute to the bodies of the species to which it belonged. Some bave changed the brute into man, and man into the brute, that man might suffer injuries similar to what he had inflicted, and the brute retaliate what he had suffered. others have confined the human soul in plants and in ftones ; and Bell of Antermony mentions an Indiau who supposed that his ancestors might be in fishes.
The notions of Homer were probably those of many of his time. But these notions were difimd indeed, when his hero Ulyffes vifited the shades, many of the ghosts seemed to retain the mangled and ghastly appearance which they
had ct
death
5 and, what is worse, feemed 
to be all starving with hunger, innumerable multitudes, with loud ihrieks, flocking to the fleams of
lus slain vic
tim-as to a most sumptuoug and delicious banquet.
For scarcely had the purple torrent flow’d,
And all the caverns imok’d with streaming blood, when, lo ! appear’d along the dusky coasts Thin airy flιoals os visionary ghosts ;
Fair penfive youths, and soft enamour’d maids,.
And wither’d elders, pale and wrinkl’d shades.
Ghastly with wounds, the forms of warriors slain, Stalk’d with majestic port, a martial train.
Thςfe, and a thousand more, swarrn’d o’er the
ground,
And all the dire assembly shriek’d around.
Ulysses saw, as ghost by ghost arose,
All wailing with unutterable woes.
Alone, apart, in discontented mood,
A gloomy ihade, the sullen Ajax stood ;
For ever fad, with proud diidain he pin’d,
And the lost arms lor ever stung his mind.
Upon Ulyfsts faying to Achilles,
Alive, we hail’d thee with our guardian gods ;
And, dead, thou rul’st a king in these abodes ;
Thefhade replfd :
Talk not of ruling in this dol’rous gloom,
Nor think vain words (he cry’d) can ease my doom ; Rather I ehυυfe laboriously to bear
A weight of woes, and breathe the vital air,
A slave to some poor hind that toils for bread. Than live a scepter’d monarch of the dead.
In this gloomy region no one is rewarded for his virtue, nor is punished for his crimes, unless committed, like those of Sisyphus, Tantalus, and Ixion, against the gods. AU indeed are claifed into groups, from a certain analogy of age, fex, fate, and dispolition ; but all appear to be equally unhappy, having their whole heart and affections concentrated in a world to which they are fated never to return.
The Elyfιum of Homer is allotted only for the rela-tions and descendants of the gods ; and Menelaus goes to this country of perpetual spring (τ), not as a perlon of superior merit, but because he had married the daughter of Jove.
Even long after a future state had become the scene of rewards and punishments, these for the most part were distributed, not according to moral, but phyfical distinctions. with the Greeks and Romans,.the soul was condemned to many calamities for a number of
(r)
   A military gentleman who refided at Penobscot during the late American war, assured us that the Indians, when defired to subfcribe a written agreement, drew always the picture of the object or animal whose name they bore. But for fuller information on this subject, see Clavigero’s Hist. of Mexico.
(s)    The question which the Sadducees put to our Saviour about the wile of the seven brothers, is a proof
that the Pharisees thought there was marriage and giving in marriage in the future state, and that it was some-what similar to the present.    ...
(τ) Homer fends the ghost of Hercules to the shades, while Hercules himself is quaffing nectar with Hebe in the skies. Οηε soul of the hero is therefore repining with the ghosts of mortals in the regions below, while the other is enjoying all the happiness of the gods above. (See odyssey, B. II. near the end). Philosophers since have improved on this hint os the poet ; and men have now got rational, animal, and vegetable souls, to which sometimes a fourth one is added, as properly belonging to matter in general. Homer infιnuateε, that Menelaus was to be transiated to Elysium without tasting death. This Elysium is the habitation of men, and not of ghosts, and is
described as being similar to the feat of the gods. Compare
Odyjs.
iv. 1.563. and
Qdyffi
vi» 
1.
43. in the Greek,
years, if the body was not honoured with funeral rites. Among the Scandinavians, a natural death was attended with infamy, while a violent death, particularly in battle, gave a title to sit in the halls of odin, and to quaff beer from the ikulls of enemies. Among the Tlascalans, it was only the great that were permitted . to animate birds and the nobler quadrupeds ; the lower ranks were transformed into weasels, into paultry beetles, and fuch mean animals. Among the Mexicans, those who were drowned, who died of a dropsy, tumors, or wounds, or such like diseases, went along with the children that had been sacrisiced to the god of water, and in a cool and delightful place were allowed to indulge in delicious repasts and varieties of pleasures: those who died of other diseases, were sent to the north or centre of the earth, and were under the dominion of the gods ot darkness. " Tlie loldiers who died in battle, or in captivity among their enemies, and the women who died in labour, went to the house of the fun, who was confidered as the prince of glory. In his mansions they led a life of endless delight-. Every day the foldiers, on the first appearance of his rays, hailed his birth with rejoicings and with dancings, and the music of instruments and voices. At his meridian they met with the women, and in like festivity accompanied him to his setting. After four years of this glorious life, they went to animate clouds, and birds of beautiful feathers and of sweet song.; but always at liberty to rile again, if they pleased, to heaven, or descend to the earth, to warble their songs, and to fuck flowers*.”
Thefe sentiments of a future state, conceived in a savage and a rude period, could not long prevail among an enlightened and civilized people, when the times of rapine and violence therefore began to cease ; when fo-cieties regulated by certain laws began to be established ; when martial prowefs was less requisite, and the qualities of the heart had begun to give an importance to the character, the future state was also modelled on 
a
different plan. In the Æneid of virgil, an author of a highly cultivated mind, and of polished manners, 
it
becomes a place of the most impartial and unerring Justice ; every one now receives a sentence suited to the actions of his past life, and a god is made to preside in judgment ;
who hears and judges each committed crime,
Inquires into the manner, place, and time.
The confciou, s wretch must all his acts reveal,
Loth to confess, unable to conceal,
From the first moment of his vital breath,
To the last hour of unrepenting death.
The spirsts of the dead no longer mingle toge-ther-as in the less enlightened period of Homer ·; the vicious are difmiffed to a place of torments, the virtuous sent to regions of blifs : indifferent characters are confined to
a
limbus *.; and those who are too virtuous for hell, but too much polluted with the stains of vice to enter heaven without preparation, are for fome time detained- ijr a purgatory.
For there are various penances enjoin’d,
And some are hung to bleach upon the wind ?
Same plung’d in waters, others purg’d in fires,
Till all the dregs are drain’d, and rust expires ;
Till nothing’s left of their habitual
stams,
But the pure ether of the foul remains.
⅜
when thus purified, they become fitted to receive the rewards of their past virtues, and now enter into those regions of happiness and joy.
AVith ether vested, and a purple sky,
The blissful seats of happy fouls below,
Stars of their own, and their own funs they know ♦ where patriots live, who, for their country’s good, -In fighting fields were prodigal of blood.
•Priests of unblemish’d lives here make abode,
A nd poets worthy their inspiring god ;
A,nd searehing wits, of more mechanic parts, who grac’d their age with new-invented arts :
Thofe who to worth their bounty did extei¢d ;
And those who knew that bounty to commend.
These good men are engaged in various amusements, according to the taste and genius of each. Qrpħeus is still playing on his harp, and the warriors are still de-lighted with their chariots, their hυrfes, and their arms.
The place of torment is at fome distaace.
A gaping gulph, which to the centre lies,
And twice as deep as earth is distant from the skies ; From hence are heard the groans of ghosts, the pains Οί founding lashes? and of dragging chains.
Here, thofe who brother’s better claim difown,
Expel their parents, and usurp the throne j Defraud their clients, and, to lucre fold,
Sit brooding on unprofitable gold.
WI10 dare not give, and even refuse to lend,
To their poor kindred, or a wanting friend.
∖' aft is the throng of these ; nor less the train of hi stful youths for foul adultsty siain.
Hosts of deserters, who their honour fold,
And basely broke their faith for bribes of gold ·:
All these within the dungeon’s depth remain, Defpairing pardon, and expecting pain.
The fouls of babes, of unhappy lovers, and fome others, feem to be placed in a paradise of fools reading in a quarter distinct from Elylιan Tartarus and Purgatory.
It is curious to observe, how much thefe ideas of a future state differ from the vague and fimple conjec-tures of rude nations ; and yet from their simple and rude conjectures, we can easily trace the succeisive changes in the writings of Homer, Plato, and virgil ; and may easily show, that thofe laws which different nations have prescribed for their dead, have always borne the strong-est analogy to their state of improvement, their system •of opinions, and their moral attainments. Some na-tions, as those of India, have fancied a number of hea-vens and hells, corresponding to fome of their principal shadea in virtue and vice ; and have silled each of these places refpectively with all the fceπes of happiness and mifery, which friendship and hatred, admiration, coh-tempt, or rancour, could suggest, But haring already observed the progress of the human mind in forming the grand and leading ideas of a future state, we mean not to descend to the modifications which may haye occurred tq particular nations, sects, or individuals.
The belief ot Chrilliaus respecting futurity demands our attention, as being founded on a different principle, namely, on express revelations from heaven. From many express declarations in Scripture, all Christians seem to be agreed» that there ⅛
a
Leaven appointed for
thc goδd and a
hell
for
the wicked.
In this heaven
the faints dwell in the presence of God and the unin-terrupted splendors- of day. Those who have been wife shine as the firmament, and those who have converted many to righteousness as the stars. Their bodies are glorious, immortal, incorruptible, not subject to disease, to pain, or to death. Their minds are strangers to sor-rtrw, to crying, to disappointment ; all their desires are presently satissied ; while they are calling, they are aπ-swered ; while they are fpeaking, they are heard. Their mental faculties are also enlarged ; they no more see things obfcurely, and as through a cloud, but continu-ally beholding new wonders and beauties in creation, are constantly exclaiming^ " Holy, holy, holy ! is the Lord of Hosts, worthy is he to receive glory, and honour, and th’inksgiving ; and to him be afcribed wisdom, and power, and might; for great and marvellous are his works, and the whole universe is filled with his glory.”
Their notions of hell differ considerably. Some un-derstanding the Scriptures literally, have plunged the v⅛ icsked into an abyss without any bottom ; have made this g∏lρh darker than night ; have silled it with rancorous and malignant spirits, that are worse than furies ; and have described it as lull of sulphur, burning for ever. This frightful gulph has by some been placed in the bowels of the earth ; by some in the fun ; by some in the moon ; and by some in a comet : but as the Scriptures have determined nothing on the subject, all such conjectures are idle and groundless.
others imagine, that the fire and sulphur are here to be taken in a figurative senfe. Thefe fuppose the torments of hell to be troubles of mind and remorfes of conscience ; and support their opinion by observing, that matter cannot act upon spirit ; forgetting, perlιaps, that at the resurrection the fpirst is to he clothed with a body, and, at any rate, that st is not for man vainly to prescribe bounds to omnipotence.
what seems to have tortured the genius of divines much more than heaven or hell, is a middle state. Οη this subject there being little revealed in Scripture, many have thought it incumbent upon them to lupply the defect ; which they seem to have done in different ways. From the Scriptures speaking frequently of the dead as sleeping in their graves, those who imagine that the powers of the mind are dependent on the body, suppose that they sleep till the resurrection, when they are to be awakened by the trump <⅛f God, reunited to their bodies, have their faculties restored, and their sentence awarded.
This opinion they Γupport by what St Peter says in the Acts, that David is not ascended into heaven ; and that this patriarch could not possibly be speaking of himself when he said, “ Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell,
i. e.
the place of the dead.” They observe, too, that the victory of Christ over death and the grave seems to imply, that our fouls are subject to their power ; that accordingly the Scripture speaks frequently of the foul’s drawing near to, of its being redeemed from, and of its descending into, the grave ; that the Psalmist, however, declares plainly, that when the breath of man goeth forth, he returneth to his earth, and that very day his thoughts pcrish. And should any one choofe to con-fult Ecclesiastes, he will find, that the living know that they shall die, but that the dead know not any thing : that their love, and their hatred, and their envy, are perished-; aud- that there is
no work, nor
device,
nor
wisdom, nor knowledge, in the grave, whether theÿ are gone.
Those who believe that the foul is not for the exer-cife of its faculties dependent on the body, are upon its feparation at death obliged to dispose of it some other way. In establishing their theory, they usually begin with attempting to prove, from Scripture or tradi-tion, both its active and separate existence ; but with proofs from tradition we intend not to meddle. Their arguments from Scripture being of more value, deserve our ferions constderation ; and are nearly as follow.
Abraham, they say, Ifaac, and Jacob, are still living, because Jehovah is their God, and he, it is allowed,
is 
not the God of the dead, but of the living. But their opponents reply, That this is the argument which our Saviour brought from the writings of Mofes to prove
a 
future refurrection of the dead ; and that aay perfon who looks into the context, will see it was not meant ol a middle state. From the dead living unto God, our Saviour infers nothing more than that they ihall live at the resurrection ; and that these gentlemen would do well in future to make a distinction between limply living and living unto God : For though. Abιaham, lfaac, and Jacob, be living unto God, our Saviour~has affured us that Abraham is dead, and thé prophets dead.
A second argument is that glimpfe which St PauI had os paradise about 14 years before he had written his Second Epistle to the Corinthians. To this argument their opponents reply, That as St Paul could not tell whether, on that occafion, he was out of the body or in the body, it is more than probable that the whole was a vision ; and, at any rate, it is no proos os a separate existence.
A third argument is, St Paul’s wishing to be absent from the body, and present with the Lord. But, fayr  their opponents, St Paul defιred not to be unclothed, but to be clothed upon r. and as some os those who maintain a separate existencce, bring Scripture to prove that thc body ,∣ continues united to Christ till the resurrec-tiυn ; in that cale, St. Paul, if he wished to be presertt with the Lord, should have rather remained with his body than lest it-
A fourth argument is, the appearance os Moses and Elias upon the mount of transfiguration. To which their opponents reply, that these saint's appeared in their bodies ; that Elias was never diverted os his body; and that the account which we have os the burial of Moses, has led fome of the ablest critics and foundest divines to conclude, that he was likewise translated to heaven without tailing death. At any rate, say they, he might have beeιr raifed from the dead for the very purpose of being present at the transfiguration, as the bodies of other faints certainly were, to bear testimony to our Lord's resurrection and victory over the grave.
A fifth argument is, what our Saviour said to the thief, “ verily I say unto thee, to-day thou shalt be with me in paradisc.” The objection usually made here is, that the expression is evidently ambiguous, and' that the sense depends entirely on the punctuation : for if the point be placed after
to-day,
the meaning will be " verily, even now, I tell thee, thou shalt be with me in paradise.” But the import of paradise in this place, say the opponents, is likewise doubtful, we learn from St Peter’s explanation of the 16th Psalm, that our Sa-
viour’s soul was not to be left
in
hell
5 and
we know that on the day of his crucifixion he went not to hea-veil : for after he had risen from the place of the dead, he forbade one of the women to touch him, as he had not yet ascended to the Father. Hell, therefore, and paradise, continue they, seem to be in this passage the very same thing, the place of the dead ; and our Savi-our’s intention, they add, was not to go to heaven at that time, but to show his victory' over death and the grave, to whose power all mankind had become sub-ject by the disobedience of their sirst parents.
without pretending to enter into the merits of this difpute, the ingenious Burnet, in his Theory of the Earth, endeavours to prove, upon the authority of the ancient fathers, that paradise lies between the earth and the moon ; and the learned Dodwell, on the same authority, has made it the common receptacle of fouls till the resurrection ; but has not told us whether or not they are to be accountable for the actions of this separate existence at the latter day, or are only to be judged according to the deeds that were done in their bodies.
This notion of a common receptacle has displeased many. The state of purgation, obscurely hinted in the doctrines of Pythagoras, and openly avowed by Plato and virgil, has been adopted by the Romish divines, who support their opinion on certain obscure passages of scripture, which are always of a yielding and a waxen nature, may casily be twilled to any hypothesis, and like general lovers efpouse rather from interest than merit.
It has displeased others, because they are anxious that the righteous should have a fore-taste of their joys, and the wicked of their torments, immediately after death, which they infer to be certainly the case from the parable of the rich man and Lazarus(u). But to this it is objected, that the rich man is supposed to be in hell, the place of torments, and that this punishment ought not to take place on their own hypothesis till after the sentence at the resurrection.
Another argument used for the intermediate state is the vision of St John in the Apocalypse. In this vision the Evangelist faw under the altar the fouls of those that were slain for the word of God and for the testimo-ny which they held. Their opponents doubt whether these visible fouls were immaterial, as St John heard them cry with a loud voice, and saw white robes given unto every one of them. If they had bodies, that circumstance might chance to prove a refurrection immediately after death, and so supersede the general resurrection at the last day.
while such conclusions as are here drawn srom the parable and vision, say the opposers of an intermediate confcious existence, imply that the dead are already raifed, and are now receiving the respective rewards of their virtues and their crimes ; those who maintain an intermediate separate existence, who speak of the body as a prifon, and of the soul as receiving an increase of power when freed from the body, are certainly not more than consistent with themselves, when they think that this foul would derive an advantage from its after union with either a new system of matter or the old onc, how-ever much altered. Baxter, they say, who saw the in-
consistency, was disposed to reason somewhat like Æ-neaβ,
O, Father ! can it be that fouls fublime
Return to visit our terrestrial çlime ?
Ογ that the gett’rous mind, releas’d at death,
Should covet lazy limbs and mortal breath ?
In no one instance, they continue, have Christiann perhaps more apparently than in this argument wrested the scriptures to their own hurt: by thus rashly at-temping to accommodate the sacred doctrines of religion to a preconceived philofophical hypothesis, they have laid themfelves open to the ridicule of deists, and have been obliged, for the fake of confistency, either to deny or to speak slightingly of the refurrection; which is certainly the surest foundation of their hope, feeing St Paul hath assured us, that if there be no resurrection of the dead, then they which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished, and those who survive may eat and drink, and act as they pleafe, for to-morrow they die; and die, too, never to five again.
Though this reproof may be rather severe, we are forry to obferve that there seems to havc been fome-times too much reason for it. A certain divine J, whose piety was eminent, and.whose memory we respect, having written " An Essay toward the proof of a separate State os Souls between Death and the Resurrec -tion, and the Commencement of the Rewards of virtue and vice immediately after death,” has taken this motto, " Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the fons of men is fully set in them to do evil.” “ The doctrine, he says, of the resurrection of the body and the consc-quent states of heaven and of hell, is
a
guard and motive of divine force, but it is renounced by the enemies of our holy Christiansty ; and should we give up the re-compenfes of separate fouls, while the deist denies thc resurrection of the body, I fear, between both we should fadly enfeeble and expose the cause of virtue, and leave it too naked and defenceless.”
This author, who wishes much that the punishment of crimes should follow immediately after death, is of opinion, that if heaven intended to check vice and impiety in the world, it has acted unwisely, if it really has deferred the punishment of the wicked to fo late a pe-riod as the resurrection. " For such, he observes, is the weakness and folly of our natures, that men will not be fo much influenced and alarmed by distant prospects, nor fo folicttous to prepare for an event which they suppose to be fo very far off, as they would for the same event if it commences as foon as ever this mortal life expires. The vicious man will indulge his sensualities, and lie down to sleep in death with this comfort, I shall take my rest here for
too
or 1000 years, and perhaps in all that fpace my offences may be forgotten ; or let the worst come that can come, I shall have
a 
long sweet nap before my sorrows begin : and thus the force of divine terrors is greatly enervated by this delay of punishment.”
Thus far our author, who thinks that his hypothe-fis, if not true, is at least expedient, and that from motives of expediency it ought to
be
inculcated as a doc
(u)
whitby shows that this parable was conformable to the notions of the Jews at that time; and even thc Mahometans, who believe in the resurrection of the dead, suppose likewise a state ¢f rewards and punishments ⅛ the grave.
trine of Scripture ; but how far his reafons can be here justisied we mean not to determine ; we ihall leave that to be fettled by others, reminding them only that the distance of future rewards and punishments is not greater on the shpposition os the sleep of the soul than on the contrary hypothesis. Every man who has but dipt into the science of metaphysics knows, and no man ever knew better than he who is believed to have been the author of the work before us, that time unperceived paffes away as in an instant; and that if the soul be in a state void of consciohsness between death and the resurrection, the man who has lain in his grave iooo years will appear to himself to have died in one moment and been raifed in the next, we would likewise recommend to those who may henceforth be inclined to inculcate any thing as a doctrine of Scripture merely on account of its supposed expediency, always to remember that God is above, that they are below, that he is omniscient, that they are of yestcrday aud know little, that their words therefore should be wary and few, and that they should always speak with respect of whatever concerns the Sovereign of the universe, or relates to his government either in the natural or mo∙ ral world. For wilt thou, fays the Highest, disannul
my judgement? wilt thou condemn me that thou may-
cst
be righteous ? shall he that contendeth with the Al-mighty instruct him ? He that reproveth God let him answer it.
If, in stating these opposite opinions, we may seem to have favoured what has been called the sleep of the soul, it is not from any conviction of its truth, for there are particular texts of Scripture which appear to us to militate against it. W6 are satissied, however, that it is a very harmlefs opinion, neither injurious to the rest of the articles of the Christian faith nor to virtuous practice ; and that those who have poured forth torrents of obloquy upon such as may have held it in simplicity and godly sincerity, have either mistaken the doctrine which they condemned, or been poffeffed by a spirit less mild than that of the gofpel (x).
whatever be the fate of the middle state, the resurrection stands on a different basis. It is repeatedly af-serted in Scripture; and those grounds on which we believe it are authenticated facts, which the affectation, the ingenuity, and the hatred of sceptics, have number-less times attempted in vain to disprove. These facts we are now to consider, referring our readers for the character of the witneffes, the authenticity of the
go· 
spel-history, and the possibility of miracles, to the parts of this work where these subjects are treated (See Miracle, Metaphysics, Part I. Chap. vii. and Religion) ; or, should more particular information be required, to the writings of Ditton, Sherlock, and well.
o
nr Lord, after proving his divine mission by the miracles which he wrought, and by the completion of ancient predictions in which he was described, declared
Vol. XVI. Part I.
that the doctrine of a refurrection was one of thofe truths which he came to announce. To show that such an event was possible, he reftored to life the daughter of Jairus, a ruler of the synagogue, a young man of Nain, who was carried out on his bier to be buried, and his friend Lazarus, whose body at the time was thought to have become the prey of corruption. Though the two sirst of thefe miracles were wrought in the presence of a number of witnestes, yet the last, owing to particular circumstances, produced a much greater noise among the Jews. It was performed on a perfon seemingly of some note, in the village of Bethany, not far from Jerusalem, and in the presence of a great many persons who from the metropolis had come to condole with
Mary and Martha. No doubts were entertained of the reality of Lazarus’s death, ∩ur Lord was at a distance when he expired, and his body had already been lying for some days in the grave, when he came forth at the voice of our Lord, all were astoniihed. Those from Jerusalem, on returning home, are impatient to relate what they had seen ; those who heard of so memorable an event cannot conceal it ; the report reaches the ears of the Pharisees and chief priests. They are soon made acquainted with every circumstance ; and dreading the istue, they think it neceffary to call a council upon the occasion, and concert the measures that ought to be pursued in a matter which was likely to be attended with so many and important consequenccs. In this council, it feemed to be agreed that our Lord had performed, and was still continuing to perform, many mi-racles : That this laff miracle, as being of an extraordinary kind, would make many converts ; and that if meafnres were not speedily taken to prevent these uncommon displays of his power, all would believe on him : the jealousy of the Romans would be excited, the rulers depofed, and the nation of the Jews deprived of its few remaining privileges. Yet, notwithstanding these private concessions made in the council, the members who dreaded to let their sentiments be known to the people, affect in public to treat our Saviour as an im-poftor. But he who already had demonstrated the abfurdity of their opinion, who supposed that his miracles were wrought by Beelzebub prince of the devils, is again ready to confute the ridiculous affertion of those who pretended to say that they were a deception. His friend Lazarus was still living at the distance of only a few miles, and many of the Jews who had gone to see him were ready to attest the truth of the report. If the rulers, apprehending the consequences of the truth, be afraid to know it, and if they are unwilling to go to Bethany, or to send for Lazarus and those who were present at his resurrection, our Lord gives them a fair opportunity of detecting his fraud, if there was any such to be found in him. 'Γo preserve their power, and re-move the jealous suspicion of the Romans, it had been already determined in council to put him to death ; and
(x) Perhaps no man has been more culpable in this respect than the celebrated warburton, who seems at sirst to have himself denied an intermediate state of conscions existence. He afterwards imagined that luch a state is supposed, though not expressly afferted, in Scripture ; and at last he maintained it with all the zeal and warmth of a profelyte. To prove the sincersty of his conversion, he treated his adversaries with scurrilous •nicknames, banter, and abuse ; a species of reasoning which seldom succeeds in recommending a bad cause, and f.dιιeh
never confers credit
on
one
that is good.
our
Lord soretels that the third day after his death he shall rise from the grave. Here no place was reserved sor deception. The sect of the Pharisees and the chief priests are openly warned and put upon their guard ; and, very fortunately for the cause of Christianity, this singular prediction was not heard with scorn, or indeed, if with scorn, it was only affected, we know from the sentiments expreffed in the council, that our Lord was secretly dreaded by the rulers ; that his miracles were far from being discredited ; and that his predictions, in their private opinion, were not to be flighted. The means accordingly which they employed to prevent, even in the very appearance, the completion of his prophecy, were admirably calculated to remove the scruples of the most wary and sceptical inquirers, if their object was only to search after truth. At the next festival of the pass-over, when the scheme of Caiaphas was put in execution, and when it was deemed expedient by the council that he should die, to fave the nation from the jealousy of the Romans ; as a proof of their steady loyalty to Rome he was apprehended, was tried as an enemy to her government, was at last condemned upon false evidence, and suspended on a cross until they were fully sa-tisfied of his death. Even after his death, the fpear of a soldier was thrust into his side ; and the water that gushed out with the blood is a proof to those who are acquainted with the structure and economy of living bodies, that he must have been some time dead.
After he was taken down from the cross, a seal was put on the door of the sepulchre in which he was laid, as the best check against secret fraud ; and a guard of soldiers was stationed around it, as the best security against open violence. In spite, however, of all these precautions, the prediction was accomplished ; the angel of God, descending from heaven with a countenance like lightning, and with raiment white as snow ; the watch shake, and become as dead men ; the earth quakes ; the stone is rolled from the mouth of the fe-pulchre ; thç angel fits on it, and our Lord comes forth.
It was in vain for the Jews to allege that his difciples came in the night, and stole him away, while the watch were asleep. Οηε must smile at these puerile as-sertions. How came the disciples to know that the watch were asleep ; or what excuse had the watch for sleeping, and incurring a punishment which they knew ⅛o be capital in the Roman law ? and how came they, in the name of wonder, to be brought as an evidence for those transactions that happened at the time when they were asleep ?
whatever credit may be given by modern infidels to this ill-framed story, it is past dispute that it had none •among the Jewish rulers at the time that it was current. Not long after our Saviour’s resurrection, the apostles were called before the council, and threatened with death for teaching in the name of Jesus. Their bold-ness upon that occasion was so provoking to the rulers, that the threat would have been instantly put in execu-tion, had not Gamaliel, a doctor of the law of high re-putation, put them in mind of other impostors who had perished in their attempts to mislead the people ; and concluded a very sensible speech with thefe remarkable words : " And now, I say unto you, refrain from these men, and let them alone ; for if this counsel, or this work, be of men, it will come to nought j but
if
it be
of God,
ye cannot overthrow it, lest haply ye be found
even to light against God.” This advice the council followed. But is it possible that Gamaliel could have given it, or the council paid the least regard to it, had the story of the disciples stealshg the body been then credited ? Surely some among them would have obser-ved, that a work or counsel, founded on imposture and fraud, could not be
∕uppojed to be of God,
and they .would unquestionably have slain the apostles.
The story of stealing the body is indeed one of the most senseless fictions that ever was invented in support of a bad cause. our Lord was on earth 40 days after he arose. He appeared frequently to his disciples. He ate and drank in their presence ; atad when some of them doubted, he bade them handle him and see that he was not a spectre, showed the mark of the spear in his fide, and the prints of the nails in his feet and hands. Be-sides thus appearing to his disciples, he was seen by more than 500 brethren at one time ; all of whom, as well as his disciples, must neceffarily have known him previous to his suffering, and could therefore attest that he was the person who was once dead, but was then alive. Yet for strangers in general, who had not seen him previous to his death, and could not therefore iden-tify his perfon after he arose, our Lord reserved many other proofs that were equally convincing. Before his ascension, he bade his difciples wait till they received power, by the Holy Ghost descending upon them : That then they should be witneffes with him, both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermoft ends of the earth ; in order that the people of all these nations, observing the miracles wrought in his name, might themselves become ocular witneffes that those who preached his resurrection were warranted to do fo by his authority ; and that this au-thority, on which so numerous miracles attended, must be divine.
we intend not here to examine the minute objections and cavils that have been advanced reflecting the truth of this important fact. The kinds, however, we shall mention iq general. Some have doubted of our Lord’s resurrection, as being an event which is not confirmed by general experience, because they imagine that what happens once should happen again, and even repeatedly, in order to be true. Some, taking their own to be pre-ferable schemes, have objected to the way in which it happened, and to the manner in which it is narrated.—-Some have imagined, that possibly the gospel history may be false ; that possibly the disciples were very ig-norant, and might be deceived ; that possibly, too, they were deep politicians, and a set of impostors ; and that poffιbly the writings which detected their falsehoods may have been destroyed. It is difficult to reason, and worse to convince, against this evidence of possibilities : but we flatter ourselves, that to the candid reader it will appear sussiciently overturned in our article Miracle; where it is shown that neither clowns nor politicians could have a ted the part that was acted by the apostles, had not the resurrection been an undoubted fact.
Some of the objectors to it have also maintained, that possibly there is nothing material without us, that there is nothing mental within us, and that possibly the whole world is ideas. This mode of arguing we pretend not to explain ; it is thought by some to proceed entirely 
from a
perverseness of mind or dispofition, whiic in books
of medicine it is always confidered as a symptom of dif-eafe, and the patient recommended to be treated in the hospital, and not in the academy.
By his raising others, and particulary by rising himself, from the dead, our Saviour demonstrated that a re-surrection from the dead is possible. And on that au-thority, which by his miracles he proved to be divine, he declared to his followers, that there is to be a gene-ral resurection both of the just and of the unjust, in-structing his difciples to propagate this doctrine through all nations ; St Paul confessing, that if there be no refur-rection of the dead, preaching is vain, and our faith is vain.
As to the order of fuccession in which the dead are to be raised, the Scriptures are almost filent. St Paul fays, that every man is to rise in his own order, and that the dead in Christ are to rise first: and St John ob-served in his vision, that the fouls of them which were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or in their hapds, lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years ; but the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years (γ) were finished.
A question that has much oftener agitated the minds of men is, with what fort of bodies are the dead to be raifed ? St Paul has answered, with incorruptible and immortal bodies (z). And to silence the disputatious caviller of his day, he illustrated his doctrine by the growth of grain. " Thou fool (said he), that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain, it may chance of wheat or of some other grain.” To us it appears very surprising, that any one who reads this passage with the slightest attention, should perplex himself, or disturb the church with idle attempts to prove the identity of the bodies with which we shall die and rise again at the last day. The apostle expressly affirms, that " flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; that we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump ; that there are celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial ; and that the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial another,”
'Γhat this implies a total change of qualities, will admit of no dispute ; but still it has been considered as an article of the Christian faith, that we ate to rife with the same bodies in respect of substance. what is meant by the identity of substance, with qualities wholly different, it is not very easy to conceive. Perhaps the meaning may be, that our incorruptible bodies shall consist os the same material particles with our mortal bodies, though these particles will be differently arranged to produce the different qualities. But as the particles of our present bodies are constantly changing, and as different particles compose the body atdiffeιent times, a question has been put, with what set of particles shall we rise? Here a singular variety of opinions have been held. Some * contend, that we shall rise with the original stamina of our bodies derived from our parents ; some are for rising with that set of particles which they had at birth ; some with the set which they are to have at death ; and some with the particles which remain after maceration in water')-; though, God knows, that if this maceration be continued long, these may arise with few or no particles at all. Another query has given much alarm, what if any of these particles should enter a vegetable, compose its fruit, and be eaten by a man, woman, or a child ? WÎ11 not a dispute, similar to that apprehended by the Sadducees about the wife of the seven brothers, neceffarily follow, whose particles are they to be at the resurrection ? Against this confusion, they trust that the goodnefs and wisdom of heaven will take all the proper and neceffary measures ; and they even venture to point out a way in which that may be done. A foot deep of earth, they observe, in two or three of the counties of England, supposing each person to weigh on an average about seven stones and a few pounds, would amply supply with material bodies 600,000,000 os fouls for no less a space than 2 3,000 years § ; and therefore there seems to be no neceffity sor the vamping up of their old materials to lodge and accommodate new fouls.
But, unluckily here, the question is not about the possibility of keeping the particles of different bodies separate and distinct. The question is rather, what have the Scriptures determined on the subject ? Now the Scriptures say, that the spirit returns unto God who gave it. And should it be asked, in what place does he reserve it till the resurrection ? the Scriptures reply, in the place of the dead ; becaufe the foul descends into the pit, is redeemed from the grave ; and the sting of death, the last enemy that is to be destroyed, shall be taken away when the trumpet of God shall found : at which time the dead that sleep in their graves ihall awake, shall hear the voice, and shall come forth. There is not here so much as a word concerning the body ; and therefore it was asked with what bodies are the dead to be raised ? To which it was answered, the vile body is to be changed. The body which is, is not the body which shall be ; for the incorruptible must put on incorruption, and that which is mortal, put on immortality.
This curious discovery of the sentiments of Scripture we owe to a lay-man, the celebrated Locke ; who, in one of his controversies with the bishop of worcester, came to understand what he knew not before, namely, that nowhere have the Scriptures fpoken of the resurrection oi the same body in the sense in which it is usu-ally conceived. The resurrection of the same person is indeed promifed ; and how that promise maybe fπlfill-ed, notwithstanding the constant change of the particles of the body, has been shown in another place. See Metaphysics, Part III. Chap. iii.
The advocatcs, therefore, for the refurrection of the mortal body, have again been obliged to betake them-selves to the lhifts of reasoning. It is proper, say they,
(γ) These thousand years formed the happy millenium so often mentioned in the ancient fathers ; and the learned Burnet, in his Theory ot the Earth, has endeavoured to prove, that a similar notion prevailed among the Jews. See Millenium.
(z) our Saviour rofe with the same body, both as to substance and qualities ; because it was nefcessary that his perfon should be known and identified after his resurrection.
that the fame bodies which have been accomplices in our vices and virtues, should also share in our rewards and punishments. Now, granting they will, shall one set of particles be bound for the crimes, or be entitled to receive the rewards, of the animal system, srom its first commencement to its diffolution ? or shall every particle ∏fe up successively, and receive its dividend of rewards and punishments for the vices and virtues that belonged' to the systern during the time that they were in union with the sentient principle ? and is the hand that fell in defending a father to be (as is supposed in some of the eastern countries) rewarded in heaven ; while the other that ftruck him when the son became vicious, is dismiffed into torments ?
Finding this hypothesis supported by neither Scripture nor reason, they next appeal to the ancient fathers. And they, it is confeffed, are for the resurrection of the very same sieslr. But this notion is directly contrary to the Scriptures, which have said, that flesh and blood are not to inherit the kingdom of God.
But whatever be the bodies with which the dead are to be raifed at the general resurrection, all mankind must appear in judgment, and receive sentence accord-ing to the deeds done in the body, without regard, so far as we know, to their actions and conduct in the middle state- After this sentence, the righteous are to enter into celestial and eternal joys, and the wicked to fnffer the punishments of hell. These punishments some have supposed to be everlasting ; others think, that after some temporary punishment, the fouls, of the wicked are to be annihilated ; and others imagine, that after doing purgatorial penance for a while in hell, they are to be again received into favour ; inclining to ex-plain the denunciations of the Almighty as a child would do the threatenings of his mother, or a lover the affected chidings of his miftress (a).
RESUSCITATION, the fame with refurrection and revivification. See the preceding article and Re-animatΓon.
The term
resufiitation,
however, is more particularly used by chemists for the reproducing a mixed body from its ashes ; an ail to which many have pretended,, as to reproduce plants, &c. from their ashes.
RETAIL, in commerce, is the felling of goods in fmall parcels, in oppofition to wholesale.
See
Com-jmerce.
RETAINER, a servant who does not continually dwell in the house of his master, but only attends up-on special occalions.
RETAINING FEE, the first see given to a serjeant or counsellor at law, in order to make him sure, and prevent his pleading on the contrary fide.
RETALIATION, among civilians, the act of re-turning like for like.
RETARDATION, in phyfics, the act of dimi-nishing the velocity of a moving body. See Gunnery, Mechanics, Pneumatics, and Projectiles-
RETE MiRABiLE, in anatomy, a small plexus or net-work of veffels in the brain, surrounding the pituitary gland.
RETENTION is defined by Mr Locke to be, a faculty of the mind, whereby it keeps or retains those fimple ideas it has once received, by sensation or resiec-tion. See Metaphysics, Part I. Chap. ii.
Retention is also used, in medicine, &c. for the state of contraction in the solids or vascular parts of the body, which makes them hold fast their proper eon-tents. In this sense, retention is cpposed to evacuation and excretion.
RETICULAR
BODY
(corpus rcticulare),
in anato-<∙ my, a very fine membrane, perforated, in the manner of a net, with a multitude of foramina. It is placed im-mediately under the cuticle; and when that is separated from the cutis, whether by art or accident, this adheres firmly to it, and is fcarce possible to be parted from it, seeming rather to bc its inner fuperficies than a distinct substance. In regard to this, we are to observe, first, the places in which it is found, being all those in which the sense of feeling is most acute, as in the palms of the hands, the extremities of the fingers, and on the soles of the feet. The tongue, however, is the part where it is most accurately to be observed : it is more easily distinguishable there than anywhere else,: and its nature and structure are most evidently seen there.
Its colour in the Europeans is white ; but in the ne-groes and other black nations it is black ; in the tawny-it is yellowisht the skin itself in both is white; and the. blackness and yellowness depend altogether on the co-lour of this membrane.
The ufes of the corpus reticulare are to preserve the structure of the other parts of the integuments, and? keep them in their determinate form and fituation. Its. apertures give paffage to the hairs and sweat through the papillae and excretory ducts of the skin : it retains» these in a certain and determinate order, that they cannot be removed out of their places, and has some· share in preserving the softness of the papille, which renders them fit for the sense of feeling. See Anato--my, n0 83.
Reticulum, is a Latin word, fιgnifying a //#/<? or
cajling net ∙
It was applied by the Romans to a parti-' cular mode of constrncting their buildings. In the city· of Salino (see Sδlino) are still to be seen remains of some walls, evidently of Roman origin from the
reticulum.
This structure confists of small pieces of baked earth cut lozengewise, and difposed with great regularity on the angles, so as to exhibit to the eye the appearance of cut diamonds ; and was called
reticular,
srom its resem-blance to fishing-nets. The Romans always concealed it under a regular coating of other matter ; and Mr Houel informs us, that this was the only specimen of it which he saw in all his travels through Sicily, Malta,, and Lipari. It appears to be the remains of fome baths,
(a) The French convention, whose principles are equally new, daring, and destructive of all that is decent or of good report, have decided this question in a very summary way, by decreeing death to be an eternal sleep ; a decree equally absurd in itself and fatal in its consequences. Since this article went to the press, however, we have learned, from the most respectable authority, that wild and absurd as the opinion is, it has been industriously propagated in this country, and that in some places it has gained ground. The consequences of this, were it to become general, must indeed be baneful beyond all conception; and we shall afterwards take occafion to expose the opinion and its nefarious consequences at greater length than it is now possible to do in this place. See Theolog y.
which- have been built for the convenience of fea-bath-in g∙
RE IIMO, the ancient
Rhitymn'm
of Stephen the geographer, and called by Ptolemy
Rhiiymna,
is a fine city, lying at one end of a rich and fertile plain, on the north coast of the island of Candia. It is but a small place, containing scarce 6000 inhabitants ; but it is a bi-shop’s see, and the harbour is defended by a citadel, where a bashaw resides. It was taken by the Turks in 1647, and has been in their hands ever since. It is about 45 miles from Candia. E. Long. 24. 45. N.Lat. 35.22.
The citadel, which stands on a rock jutting out into the sea, would be sufficient for the defence of the city, were it not situated at the foot of an high hill, from which it might be cannonaded with great advantage. The harbour is now almost silled with sand, and is no longer accessible to shipping ; nor do the Turks in any measure oppυfe the ravages of time, but behold with a careless eye the most valuable works in a state of ruin. The trench had formerly a vice-consul at Retimo, to which ships uied to repair sor cargoes of oil ; but they haye been long unable to get into the harbour : to repair which, however, and to revive the commerce of Retimo, would be a most useful attempt. The plains around the city abound in a variety of productions. Great quantities of oil, cotton, saffron, and wax, are produced here ; and they would be produced in still greater quantities if the inhabitants could export their commodities. The gardens os Retimo bear the best fruits in the island ; excellent pomegranates, almonds, pistacho nuts, and oranges. The apricot-tree, bearing the michmich, the juice of which is so delicious, and its flavour so exquiiite, is found here. It is a kind of early peach, but smaller and more juicy than thofe os France,
RETINA, in anatomy, the expansion of the optic nerves over the bottom of the· eye, where the fense of vision is first received. See Anatomy, n0 142. and optics
(Index)
at
Eye
and
Rifton.
RETINUE, the attendants or followers of a prince or perfon of quality, chiefly in a journey.
RETIRADE, ill fortification, a kind of retrenchment made in the body of a bastion, or other work, which is to be disputed, inch by inch, after the defences are dismantled. It usually confists of two faces, which make a re-entering angle, when a breach is made in a bastion, the enemy may also make a retirade or new fortification behind it.
RE IIREMENT, means a private way of life or a fecret habitation. “ Few (lays an elegant writer) are able to bear solitude ; and though retirement is the of-tensible object of the greater part, yet, when they are enabled by success to retire, they feel themselves unhappy. Peculiar powers and elegance of mind are neceffary to enable us to draw all our resources from our-felves. In a remote and folitary village the mind must be internally active in a great degree, or it will be mi-ferable for want of employment. But in great and populous cities, even while it is passive, it will be con-stantly amufed. It is impoffible to walk the streets without finding the attention powerfully folicited on every fide. . No exertion is neceffary. objects pour themfelves into the fenfes, and it would be difficult to prevent their admittance. But, in, retirement, there wust be a spirit of philosophy and
a store
of learning, or elfe the fancied feenes of bliss will vanisli like the
co
lours of the rainbow. Poor Cowley might be laid to be melancholy mad. He languished sor sohtude, and wished to hide himfelf in the wilds of America. But, alas ! he was not able to support the solitude of a coun-try village within a few miles of the metropolis !
“ with a virtuous and cheerful family, with a few' faithful and good-humoured friends, with a well-felect-ed collection of elegant books, and with a competency, one may enjoy comforts even in the deferted village,' which the city, with all its diverfions, cannot fupply.”
RETORT, in chemistry, an oblong or globular vef-∙ fel with its neck bent, proper for distillation. See Chemistry, no 576.
In the fifth volume of the Tranfactions of the London Society for the Encouragement of Arts, p. 96. we find a paper containing a method for preventing stone retorts from breaking ; or flopping them when cracked, during any chemical operation, without lofing any os the contained subject. " I have always found it neceffary (fays the writer) to use a previous coating for filling up the interftices of the earth or stone, which is made by diffolving two ounces of borax in a pint of boiling water, and adding to the folution as much flaked lime as will make it into
a
thin paste ; this, with
a 
common painter’s brush, may be spread over feveral retorts, which when dry are then ready for the proper preserving coating. The intention of this first coating is, that the substances thus spread over, readily vitrifv-ing in the fire, prevent any of the distilling matters from pervading the retort, but does in nowise prevent it from cracking.
" whenever I want to afe any of the above coated retorts ; after I have charged them with the substance to be distilled, I prepare a thin paste, made with common linfeed oil and flaked lime well mixed, and perfect-ly plastic, that it may be easily spread : with this let the retorts be covered all over except that part of the neck which is to be inferted into the receiver ; this is readily done with a painter’s brush : the coating will be sussiciently dry in a day or two, and they will then be sit for ufe. with this coating I have for feveral years worked my stone retorts, without any danger of their breaking, and have frequently used the fame retort four or live times ; observshg particularly to coat ■ it over with the last mentioned composition every time ’ it is charged with fresh materials: Before I made use os this expedient, it was au even chance, in conducting operations in stone and earthen retorts,, whether they ' did not crack every time ; by which means great loss has been sustained. Is at any time during the opera-tion the retorts should crack, spread fame os the oil composition thick on the part, and fprinkle feme pow-der of siacked lime on it, and it immediately stops the siffure, and prevents any of the distilling matter from pervading ; even that fubtile penetrating substance the felid phosphorus will not penetrate through it. It may be applied without any danger, even when the retort is red hot ; and when it is made a little stiffer, is more proper for luting veffels than any other I ever have tried ; becaufe if properly mixed it will never crack, nor will it indurate so as to endanger the breaking the necks os the veffels when taken off.”
RETRACTS, among horfemen, pricks in a hone's feet, arlsing srom the fault of the farrier in driving nails
that are weak, or in driving them ill-pointed, or otherwise amits.
RÈTREÀT,
in
a military
sense.
An
army or body
of men are said to retreat when they turn their backs upon the enemy, or are retiring from the ground they occupied : hence every march in withdrawing from the enemy is called a
retreat.
That which is done in fight of an aélive enemy, who pursues with a superior force, is the moil important part of the subject; and is, with reason, looked upon as the Ulory of theprosession. It is a manœuvre the most delicate, and the properest to display the prudence, genius, courage, and addrefs, of an officer who commands: the histo-rians of all ages testify it ; and historians have never been so lavish of eulogiums as on the subject of the brilliant retreats of our heroes. If it is important, it is no less difficult to regulate, on account of the variety of circumstances, each of which demands different prin-ciples, and an almost endlefs detail. Hence a good retreat is esteemed, by experienced officers, the master-pieee of a general. He should therefore be well ac-quainted with the fituation of the country- through which he intends to make it, and careful that nothing is omitted to make it safe and honourable. See WAR.
Retreat, is also a beat of the drum, at the firing of the evening gun ; at which the drum-major, with all the drums of the battalion, except such as are upon du-ty, beats from the camp-colours on the right to those on the lest, on the parade of encampment : the drums of all the guards beat also ; the trumpets at the same time founding at the head of their refpective troops. This is to warn the soldiers to forbear firing, and the centinels to challenge, till the break of day that the reveille is beat. The retreat islikewise called
setting the watch.
RETRENCHMENT literally fignifies something -cut off or taken from a thing ; in which fense it is the same with subtraction, diminution, &c.
Retrenchment, in the art of war, any kind os work raised to cover a poll, and fortify it against the .enemy, such as sascines loaded with earth, gambions, barrels of earth, sand-bags, and generally all things that can cover the men and stop the enemy. See For-tification and WAR.
RETRIBUTION, a handsome present, gratuity, or acknowledgment, given instead of a formal salary or hire, to persons employed
in
affairs that do not so im-mediately fall under estimation, nor within the ordinary commerce in money.
RETROMINGENTS, in natural history, a class or division of animals, whose characteristic is, that they stale or make water backwards, both male and female.
RETURN
(returna
or
retorna),
in law, is used in divers senses. ι. Return of writs by sheriffs and bailiffs is a certificate made by them to the court, of what they have done in relation to the execution of the writ directed to them. This is wrote on the back of the writ by the officer, who thus fends the writ back to the court from whence it iffued, in order that it may be filed. 2. Return os a commission, is a certificate or answer sent to the court from whence the commission iffues, concerning what has been done by the commis-sioners. 3. Returns, or days in bank, are certain days in each term, appointed for the return of writs, &c. Thus Hillary term has four returns, viz. in the king’s-
bench, on the day next after the octave, or eighth day
after Hillary day : on
the
day next after the fifteenth day from St Hillary; on the day after purification} and on the next after the octave of the purification. In the common pleas, in eight days of St Hillary : from the day of St Hillary, in fifteen days : on the day after the purification : in eight days of the purification. Easter term has five returns, viz. in the king’s-bench, on the day next after the fifteenth day from Easter : on the day next after the three weeks from Eafter :
on 
the day next after one month from Easter : on the day next after five weeks from Easter: and on the day next alter the day following ascenston-day. In the common pleas, in fifteen days from the feast of Easter : in three weeks from the feast of Easter : in one month srom Easter day : in five weeks from Easter day : on the day after the ascenston-day. Trinity term has four re-turns, viz. on the day following the second day after Trinity : on the day following the eighth’day after Trinity : on the day next after the fifteenth day from Tri-nity : on the day next after three weeks from Trinity. In the common pleas, on the day after Trinity : in eight days of Trinity: in fifteen days from Trinity : in three weeks from Trinity. Michaelmas term has fix returns, viz. on the day next after three weeks from St Michael : on the day next after one month of St Michael: on the day following'the second day after All-fouls : on the day next after the second day after St Martin : on the day following the octave of St Martin : on the day next after fifteen days of St Martin. In the common pleas, in three weeks from St Michael : in one month from St Michael : on the day after AU-souls : on the day after St Martin : on the octave of St Martin : in fifteen days from St Martin. It is to be obferved, that, as in the king’s-bench, all returns are to be made on some particular day of the week in each term, care must be taken not to make the writs out of that court returnable on a non-judicial day ; such as Sunday, and All-faints, in Michaelmas term, the purification in Hillary, the afeenfion in Easter, and Midsummer-day, except it should fall on thc first day of Trinity term.
Returns, in a military sense, are of various forts, but all tending to explain the state of the army, regiment, or company ; namely, how many capable of doing duty, on duty, fick in quarters, barracks, infirmary, or hospital ; prisoners, absent with or without leave ; total effective ; wanting to complete the establishment, &c.
RETUSARI, an ifland in Russia, is a long siip of land, or rather sand, through the middle of which runs a ridge of granite. It is 20 miles from Petershurg by water, four from the shore of Ingria, and nine from the coaft of Carelia. It is about 10 miles in circumference, and was overspread with firs and pines rvhen Pe-ter first conquered it srom the Swedes. It contains at present about 3c,000 inhabitants, including the sailors and garrifon, the former of whom amount to about 12,000, the latter to 1500 men. The isiand affords a small quantity of pasture, produces vegetables, and a few fruits, such as apples, currants, gooseberries, and straw-. berries, which thrive in this northern climate.
RETZ (Cardinal de). See Gondi.
RETZIA, in botany ; a genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the pentandria class of plants, and
to
the 29th natural order,
Camtanacea.
The capfule is bilocular, the corolla cylindrical, and villous without; the iligma bifid.
REUd I.INGEN, a handsome, free, and imperial town os Germany, in the circle os Suabia, and duchy of wirtemberg ; seated in a plain on the river Eschez, near the Neckar, adorned with handsome public build-ings, and has a well frequented college. E. Long. 9. 10. N. Lat. 48. 31.
REVE, Reeve, or
Grew,
the bailiff of a franchife, or manor, thus called, especially in the weft of Eng-land. Hence shire-reeve, iheriff, port-greve, &c.
REVEILLE, a beat of drum about break of day, to give notice that it is time for the soldiers to arise, and that the sentries are to forbear challenging.
RE∙vEL, a port town of Livonia, situated at the south entrance of the gulph of Finland, partly in a plain and partly on a mountain ; 133 miles south-weft of Pe-tershurg, and 85 sonth-east of Abo. It is a place of great trade, and holds two Υtrirs yearly, which are vi-sited by merchants from all countries, but particularly by those os England and Holland. It is a strong and a rich place, with a capital harbour. It is surrounded with high walls and deep ditches, and defended by a castle and stout bastions. It was confirmed to the Swedes at the peace of oliva, conquered by Peter the Great in 1710, and ceded to Russia in 1721. The conquest of it was again attempted by the Swedes in 1790. The duke of Sudermania, with the Swediih fleet, attempted to carry the harbour ; but after an ob-stinate engagement with the Ruffian fleet, he was obliged to give it up ; but it was but for a very short while. He retired about 10 leagues from the harbour, to repair the damage his fleet had fustained, and to prepare for a second attack before any relief could be afforded to the Russian fleet. As soon as he had refitted, he failed for the harbour, at a league distant from which the Russian fleet was discovered, ready to dispute with the Swedes the entrance. Upon a council being held by the Duke, it was resolved to attack the Ruffians ; and the signals being given, the fleet bore down for the attack, which was maintained for near fix hours with the utmost fury : at length the Swedes broke the Russian line, which threw them into much confusion ; when the Swedes, taking the advantage of the general confusion into which the Ruffians were thrown, followed them with their whole force into the harbour, where the conflict and carnage were dreadful on both sides, though the Swedes certainly had the worst of it ; at the fame time that their skill and bravery is indisputable.
This valuable place was again confirmed to Russia by the peace. The government of Revel or Est-honia is one of the divisions of the Ruffian empire, containing five districts. 1. Revel, on the Baltic sea.
2.    Baltic-port, about 40 versts westward srom Revel.
3.    Habsal, or Hapsal, a maritime town. 4. weiffen-stein, on the rivulet Saida, about 80 versts from Revel. 5. wesenberg, about 100 versts from Revel, at about an equal distance from that town and Naιva.
REVELATION, the act of revealing, or making a thing public that was before unknown ; it is also ustd for the discoveries made by God to his prophets, and by them to the world ; and more particularly for the books of the Qld and New Testament. See
Bible;
Chrtstianitv, Miracle, Religion,
and
Theolo-
GY.
The principal tests of the truth of any revelation, are the tendency of its practical doctrines ; its conlisten-cy with itself, and with the known attributes of God ; and some fatisfactory evidence that it cannot have been derived from a human souree.
Before any man can receive a written book as a re-velation from God, he must be convinced that God ex-ists, and that he is poffeffed os almighty power, infinite wildom, and perfect jnstice Now should a book teaching absurd or immoral doctrines (as many chapters of the Koran do, and as all the traditionary fystems of Paganism did), pretend to be revealed by a God of wisdom and justice, we may safely reject its pretenfions without farther examination than what is neceffary to satisfy us that we have not mifunderstood its doctrine. Should a book claiming this high origin, enjoin in one part os it, and forbid in another, the same thing to be done under the same circumstances, we may reject it with contempt and indignation ; because a being of infinite wisdom can never act capriciously or absurdlv. Still, however, as it is impossible for us to know how far the powers of men may reach in the investigation or discovery of useful truth, some farther evidence is neces-sary to prove a doctrine of divine origin, than its mere confistency with itself', and with the principles of morality ; and this evidence can be nothing but the power of working miracles exhibited by him by whom it was originally revealed. Tn every revelation confirmed by this evidence, many doctrines are to be looked for which human reason cannot fully comprehend ; and these are to be believed on the testimony os God, and suffered to produce their practical consequences. At this kind of belief the shallow infidel may smile con-temptuousiy ; but it has place in arts and sciences as
well as in religion, whoever avails himfelf of the demon-strations of Newton, Bernoulli, and others, refpectinœ the refistance of fluids, and applies their conclu lions to the art of flιip-h>uilding, is as implicit a believer, if he understand not the principles of fluxions, as any Chri-stian ; and yet no man will fay that his faith is not pro-ductive of important practical confequences. He believes, however, in man, while the Christian believes in God ; and therefore he cannot pretend that his faith rests on a surer foundation.
Mr Locke, in laying down the distinct provinces of reason and faith, observes, 1. That the fame truths may be discovered by revelation which are discoverable to us by reason. 2. That no revelation can bc admitted against the clear evidence of reafon. 3. That there are many things of which we have but imper-fect notions, or none at all ; and ethers, of whose past, prefent, or future existence, by the natural use of our faculties we cannot have the least knowledge: and these, being beyond the discovery of our faculties, and above reafon, when revealed, become the proper object of our faith. He then adds, that our reafon is not injured or disturbed, but assisted and improved, by new discoveries of truth coming from the fountain of knowledge, whatever Gβd has revealed is certainly true ; but whether it be a divine re velation. or not, rea-fon must judge, which can never permit the mind to reject a greater evidence to embrace what is less evi-
dent. There can be no evidence that any traditional revelation is of divine original, in the words we receive it, and the fense we understand it, so clear and so certain as that of the principles of reason: and, there-fore, nothing that is contrary to the clear and fclf-evident dictates of reafon, has a right to be urged or affented to as a matter of faith, wherein reafon has 'nothing to do.
Revelation
os St John.
See Atocalvpsε. REVELS, entertainments of dancing, masking, act-
■ ing comedies, farces, &c. anciently very frequent in the inns of court and in noblemens houfes, but now -much disufed. Thc officer who has the direction of the revels at court is called the
Master of the Revels.
REVENGE, means the return of injury for injury,
■and differs materially from that sudden resentmertt which ,rifes in the mind immediately on being injured ; which, fo far srom being culpable when restrained within due bounds, is abfolutely necessary for felf-preservation. Revenge, on the contrary, is a cool and deliberate wicked-ness, and is often executed years after the offence was given ; and the defire of it is generally the effect of •littleness, weakness, and vice ; while, to do right, and to fnffer wrong, is an argument of a great soul, that scorns to stoop to suggested revenges.
Revenge is but a frailty incident
To craz’d and fickly minds ; the poor content
of
little fouls, unable to surmount
An injury, too weak to bear affront.    
Dryden.
Revenge is generally the concomitant of savage minds, of minds implacable, and capable of the most horrid barbarities ; unable to fet any limits to their dif-pleafure, they can confine their anger within no bounds of reason.
Cruel revenge, which still we find
The wcakest frailty of a feeble mind.
Degenerous passion, and for man too bafe,
It seats its empire in the favage race.
Juvenal.
The institution of law prevents the execution of private revenge, and the growth of civilization shows its impropriety. Though in modern times a species of revenge is sanctioned by what is called the law of honour, which evades the law of the land indeed, but which is equally mean and disgraceful as the other kinds, and is of consequences equally baneful. See Anger, Duelling, and Resentment.
REVENUE, the annual income a perfon receives from the rent of his lands, houses, interest of money in the stocks, &c.
Royal Revenue,
that which the British constitution hath vested in the royal person, in order to support his dignity and maintain his power ; being a portion which each subject contributes of his property, in order to secure the remainder. This revenue is either
ordinary
or
extraordinary.
I. The king’s
ordinary
revenue is such as has either sublisted time out of mind in the crown.; or elfe has been granted by parliament, by way of purchase or exchange for such of the king’s inherent hereditary revenues as were found inconvenient to the subject.— In faying that it has subfisted time out of mind in 
the χrown,
we do not mean that the king is at pre
sent in the actual possession of the whole of his revenue. Much (nay the greatest part) of it is at this day in the hands of subjects ; to whom it has been grant-ed out from time to time by the kings of England : which has rendered the crown in some meafure dependent on the people for its ordinary support and sub-fistenee. So that we must be obliged to recount, as part of the royal revenue, what lords of manors and other subjects frequently look upon to be their own absolute rights ; becaufe they and their ancestors are and have been vested in them for ages, though in reality originally derived from the grants of our ancient princes.
1.    
The first of the king’s ordinary revenues, which may be taken notice of, is of an ecclefiastical kind (as are alfo the three succeeding ones), viz. the custody of the temporalities of bishops. See Temporalities.
2.    The king is entitled to a corody, as the law calls it, out of every bishopric ; that is, to fend one of his chaplains to be maintained by the bishop, or to have
a 
penfion allowed him till the bishop promotes him to a benefice. This is alfo in the nature of an acknowledgement to the king, as founder of the see, fince he had formerly the same corody or penfion from every abbey or priory of royal foundation. It is suppofed to be now fallen into total disuse } though Sir Matthew Hale fays, that it is due of common right, and that no prescrip-tion will discharge it.
3.    The king alfo is entitled to all the tithes ari-fing in extraparochial places : though perhaps it may be doubted how far this article, as well as the last, can be properly reckoned a part of the king’s own royal revenue ; fince a corody supports only his chaplains, and thefe extraparochial tithes are held under an im-plied trust that the king will distribute them for the good of the clergy in general.
4.    The next branch confists in the firft-fru⅛s and tenths of all spiritual preferments in the kingdom. See Tenths.
5.    The next bιanch of the king’s ordinary revenue (which, as well as the subsequent branches, is of a lay or temporal nature) consists in the rents and profits of the demesne lands of the crown. These demefne lands, 
terra dominicales refits,
being either the share reserved to the crown at the original distribution of landed property, or such as came to it afterwards by forfeitures or other means, were anciently very large and exten-five ; comprifing divers manors, honours, and lord-ships ; the tenants of which had very peculiar privi-leges, when we speak of the tenure in ancient demesne. At prefent they are contracted within a very narrow compass, having bcen almost entirely granted away to private subjects. This has occafioned the parliament frequently to interpole ; and particularly after King william III. had greatly impoverished the crown, an act passed, whereby all future grants or leases from the crown for any longer term than 31 years or three lives, are declared to be void ;■ except with regard to houses, which may be granted for 50 years. And no rever-fionary lease can be made, so as to exceed, together with the estate in being, the same term of three lives or 31 years ; that is, when there is a subfisting leafe, of which there are 20 years still to come, the king can-not grant a future interest, to commence after the ex-piration of the former, for any longer term than 11
years. The
tenant must also be made liable to be punished for committing waste ; and the usual rent must be reserved, or, where there has usually been no rent, one-third of the clear yearly value. The misfor-'tune is, that this act was made too late, after almost every valuable poffeffion of the crown had been granted away for ever, or elfe upon very long leafes ; but may be of benefit to posterity, when those leases come to expire.
6. Hither might have been referred the advantages which were used to arise to the king from the profits of his military tenures, to which most lands in the kingdom were subject, till the statute 12 Car. II. c.
24. 
which in great measure abolished them all. Hither al-so might have been referred the profitable prerogative 
of
purveyance and pre-emption : which was a right en-joyed by the crown of buying up provisions and other ftecessaries, by the intervention of the king’s purveyors, for the use of his royal household, at an appraised va-luation, in preference to all others, and even without consent of the owner : and also of forcibly impressing the carriages and horses of the subject, to do the king’s businefs on the public roads, in the conveyance of tim-ber, baggage, and the like, however inconvenient to the proprietor, upon paying him a fettled price. A prerogative which prevailed pretty generally thrβugh-out Europe during the scarcity of gold and filver, and the high valuation of money confequential thereupon. In those early times, the king’s household (as well as those of inferior lords) were supported by fpecific ren-ders of corn, and other victuals, from the tenants of the respective demesnes; and there was also a continual market kept at the palace-gate to furnish viands for the royal ufe. And this answered allpurposes, in those ages of simplicity, fo long as the king’s court conti-nued in any certain place. But when it removed from one part of the kingdom to another (as was formerly very frequently done), it was found necessary to fend purveyors beforehand, to get together a sufficient quantity of provisions and other necessaries for the household: and, lest the unusual demand should raise them to an exorbitant price, the powers beforementioned were vested in 'these purveyors ; who in process of time very greatly abused their authority, and became a great oppression to the subject, though of little advantage to the crown ; ready money in open market (when the royal residence was more permanent, and fpecie began to be plenty) being found upon experience to be the best proveditor of any. wherefore, by degrees, the powers of purveyance have declined, in foreign coun-tries as well as our own : and particularly were abolish-ed in Sweden by Gustavus Adolphus, towards the be-ginningof the last century. And, with us in England, having fallen into disuse during the fuspension of monarchy, King Charles, at his refloration, consented, by the lame statute, to resign entirely those branches of his revenue and power: and tb.e parliament, in part of recompenfe, fettled on him, his heirs, and successcrs, for ever, the hereditary excise of 15d. per barrel on all beer and ale fold in the kingdom, and a proportionable sum for certain Other liquors. So that this hereditary txcife now forms the sixth branch of his majesty’s or-dinary revenue.
7. A seventh branch might also be computed
to have
arifen from wine-Iicences ; or the rents payable to the crown by such perfems.as are licensed to fell wine by retail throughout Britain, except in a few privileged places. Thefe were first fettled on the crown by die statute 12 Car. II. c. 25. and, together with the hereditary excise, made up the equivalent in value for the loss sustashed by the prerogative in the abolition of the military tenures, and the right of pre-emption and purveyance : but this revenue was abolished by the sta-tute 30 Geo. II. c. 19∙ and an annual sum of upwards of
L.
7000
per annum,
issuing out of the ncw stamo-duties impofed on wine-licences, was fettled on the crown in its stead.
8.    An eighth branch of the king’s ordinary revenus is usually reckoned to consist in the profits arising srom his forests. See
Forest.
These consist principally in the amercements or fines levied for offences against the foreshlaws. But as few, if any, courts of this kind for levying amercements have been held fince 1632, 8 Char. I. and as, from the accounts given of the pro-ceedings in that court by our histories and law-books, nobody would wish to see them again revived, it is need-less to pursue this inquiry any farther.
9.    The profits arising from the king’s ordinary courts of justice make a ninth branch of his revenue. And these consist not only in fines imposed upon offenders, forfeitures of recognizances, and amercements levied upon defaulters ; but also in certain fees due to the crown in a variety of legal matters, as, for setting the great feal to charters, original writs, and other forensic proceedings, and for permitting fines to be levied of lands in order to bar entails, or otherwise to insure their title. . As none of thefe can be done without the immediate intervention of the king, by himself or his officers, the law allows him certain perquisites and pro-fits, as a recompenfe for the trouble he undertakes for tlie public. These, in process of time, have been al-most all granted out to private persons, or else appropriated to certain particular ufes : so that, thouosh our law proceedings are still loaded with their pΓy-ment, very little of them is now returned into the king s exchequer ; for a part of whofe royal maintenance they were originally intended. All future grants of them, however, by the statute 1 Ann. ft. 2. c. 7. are to endure for no longer time than the prince’s life who grants them.
10.    A tenth branch of the king's ordinary revenue, said to be grounded on the consideration of his guard, ing and protecting the feas. from pirates and robbers, is the right to
royalfifih,
which are whale andsturgeon: and these, when either thrown ashore, or caught near the coasts, are the property of the king, on account of their fuperior excellence. Indeed, our ancestors feem to have entertained a very high notion of the im-portance of this right ; it being the prerogative of the kings of Denmark and the dukes of Normandy j and from one of these it was probably derived to our princes.
11.    Another maritime revenue, and founded partly upon the same reason, is that of
shipwrecks.
See 
wreck.
12.    A twelfth branch of the royal revenue, the right to mines, has its original from the king’s prerogative of coinage, in order to supply
him with materials ; and
therefore those mines which are properly royal, and to which the king is entitled when found, are ^nly those of silver and gold. See Mine.
13.    To the fame original may in part be reserrcdthe revenue of treasure-trove. See
TKKΛsuRK-Trove.
14.    waifs. See waif.
15.    Estrays. See Estray.
Besides the particular reafons, given in the different articles, why the king should have the several revenues of royal fish, shipwrecks, treasure-trove, waifs, and estrays, there is alfo onc general reason which holds for them all ; and that is, because they are
bona vacantia,
or goods in which no one else can claim a property. And, therefore, by the law of nature, they be-longed to the first occupant or finder; and so continued under the imperial law. But, in settling the modern eonststutions of most of the governments in Europe, it was thought proper (to prevent that strife and contention which the mere title of occupancy is apt to create and continue, and to provide for the support of public authority in a manner the least burdensome to individuals) that these rights should be annexed to the su-preme power by the pofitive laws of the state. And io it came to pass, that, as Bracton expresses it, " hæc, " quæ nullius in bonis sunt, et olim fuerunt inventons " de jure naturali, jam efficiuntur principis de jure gen-" tium.”
16.    The next branch of the king’s ordinary revenue consists in forfeitures of lands and goods for offences ; 
bona confiscata,
as they are called by the civilians, be-caufe they belonged to the
fiβus
or imperial treasury ; or, as our lawyers term them,ybrh
sacta,
that is, such whereof the property is gone away or departed from the owner. The true reason and only substantial ground os any forfeiture for crimes, consist in this ; that all property is derived from society, being one of thofe civil rights which are conferred upon individuals, in ex-change for that degree of natural freedom which every man must sacrifice when he enters into social communities. If, therefore, a member of any national community violates the fundamental contract of his affirmation, by tranfgressing the municipal law, he forfeits his right to such privileges as he claims by that con-tract ; and the state may very justly resume that portion of property, or any part of it, which the laws have before affigned him. Henςe, in every offence of an atrocious kind, the laws of England have exacted a total confifcation of the moveables or personal estate ; and, in many cases, a perpetual, in others only a temporary, lpfs of the offender’s immoveables or landed property ; and have veiled them both in the king, who is the person supposed to be offended, being the one visible magistrate in whom the majesty of the public re-sides. See Forfeiture and Deodand.
17.    Another branch of the king’s ordinary revenue arifes from escheats of lands, which happen upon the defect of heirs to succeed to the inheritance ; where-upon they in general revert to and vest in the king, who is esteemed, in the eye of the law, the original pro-prietor of all lands in the kingdom.
18.    The last branch of the king’s ordinary revenue, consists in the custody of idiots, from whence we shall be naturally led to cυnlider also the custody of lunatics. See Idiot and Lunatic.
This may suffice for a short view of the king’s
ordi
nary
revenue, or the proper patrimony of the crown j which was very large formerly, and capable of being increased to a magnitude truly formidable : for there are very few estates in the kingdom that have not, at some period or other since the Norman conquest, been vested in the hands of the king, by forfeiture, escheat, or otherwise. But, fortunately for the liberty of the subject, this hereditary landed revenue, by a series of improvident management, is funk almost to nothing ; and the casual profits, arising from the other branches of the
cenfus regalis,
are likewise almost all of them alienated from the crown. In order to supply the deficiencies of which, we are now obliged to have recourfe to new methods of railing money, unknown to our early ancestors ; which methods constitute.
„ II. The king’s
extraordinary
revenue. For, the public patrimony being got into the hands of private subjects, it is but reasonable that private contributions shonld supply the public service. which, though it may perhaps fall harder upon some individuals, whose ancestors have had no share in the general plunder, than upon others, yet, taking the nation .throughout, it amounts to nearly the same ; provided the gain by the extraordinary should appear to be no greater than the loss by the ordinary revenue. And perhaps, if every gentleman in the kingdom was to be stripped of such of his lands as were formerly the property of the crown, was to be again subject to the inconveniences of purveyance and pre-emption, the oppression of fo∙ rest-laws, and the slavery of , feodal-tenures ; and was to resign into the king’s hands all his royal franchises of waifs, wrecks, estrays, treasure-trove, mines, deo-dands, forfeitures, and the like ; he would find himself a greater loser than by paying his
quota
to such taxes as are necessary to the support os government. The thing, therefore, to be wished and aimed at
in
a land of liberty, is by no means the total abolition of taxes, which would draw after it very pernicious con-sequences, and the very fupposition
of
which is the height of political abfurdity. For as the true idea of government and magistracy will be found to consist in this, that some few men are deputed by many others to preside over public affairs, so that individuals may the better be enabled to attend their private concerns ∙, it is necessary that those individuals should be bound to contribute a portion of their private gains, in order to support that government, and reward that magistracy, which protects them in the enjoyment of their respective properties. But the things to be aimed at are wisdom and moderation, not only in granting, but alfo in the method of raising, the necessary fiιpplies j by contriving to do both in such a manner as may be most coducive to the national welfare, and at the same time most consistent with economy and the liberty of the subject ; who, when properly taxed, contributes only, as was before observed, some part of his property in order to enjoy the rest.
These extaordinary grants are ufually called by the synonymous names of
aids, fubfidies,
and
supplies ;
and are granted by the commons of Great Britain, in par-liament assembled. See Parliament and Tax.
The clear nett produce of the several branches of the revenue, after all charges of collecting and ma-nagement paid, amounted in the year 1786 to about 
L.
I5>397>∞Q Sterling, whste the expcnditure was.
found to be about I.,. 14,477,-000, How these immense sums are appropriated, is next to be considered. And this is, first and principally, to the payment of the interest of the national debt. See
NÀtionai Debt
and Funds.
The respective produces of the several taxes were originally separate and distinct funds ; being securities for the sums advanced on each several tax, and for them only. But at last it became necessary, in order to avoid confusion, as they multiplied yearly, to reduce the number of these separate funds, by uniting and blending them together ; fuperadding the faith of parliament for the general security of the whole. So that there are now only three capital funds of any account, the
aggregate
fund, and the
general
fund, so called from such union and. addition ; and the
South-Sea
fund, being the produce of the taxes appropriated to pay the interest of such part of the national debt as was advanced by that company and its annuitants, whereby the separate funds, which were thus united, are become mutual securities for each other; and the whole produce of them, thus aggregated, liable to pay such interest or annuities as were formerly charged upon each distinct fund : the faith of the legislature being moreover engaged to supply any casual deficiencies.
The customs, excises, and other taxes, which are to support these funds, depending on contingencies, upon exports, imports, and consumptions, must necessarily be of a very uncertain amount ; but they have always been considerably more than was sufficient to answer the charge upon them. The surplusses, therefore, of the three great national funds, the aggregate, general, and Boutlι-Sea funds, over and above the interest and annuities charged upon them, are directed by statute 
3
Geo. I. c. 7- to be carried together, and to attend the difposition of parliament ; and are usually denominated
Ùscfinking fund,
because originally destined to fink and lower the national debt. To this have been since added many other entire duties, granted in fubsequent years ; and the annual interest of the sums borrowed on their refpective credits is charged on, and payable out of, the produce of the sinking fund. However, the nett surplusses and savings, after all deductions paid, amount annually to a very considerable fum. For as the interest on the national debt has been at several times reduced (by the consent of the proprietors, who had their option either to lower their interest or be paid their principal), the savings from the appropriated revenues must needs be extremely large.
But, before any part of the aggregate fund (the surplusses whereof are one of the chief ingredients that form the sinking fund) can be applied to diminish the principal of the public debt, it stands mortgaged by parliament to raise an annual sum for the maintenance 'of the king’s houschold and the civil list. For this purpose, in the late reigns, the produce of certain branches of the excise and customs, the post-office, the duty on wine-licences, the revenues of the remaining crown-lands, the profits arising from courts of justice, (which articles include all the hereditary revenues of the crown), and also a clear annuity of L. 120,000 in money, were fettled on the king for life, for the support of his majesty’s household, and the honour and dignity of the crown. And, as the amount of these several branches was uncertain, (though in the last reign they were computed to have⅛bmetimes raised almost a million), if they did
not
arise annually to L.
800,000, 
the parliament engaged to make up the deficiency. But his present majesty having, fυoα after his acceffion, spon-taneously signified his consent that his own hereditary revenues might be so disposed of as might best conduce to the utility and fatisfaction of the public, and having graciously accepted a limited fum, the said hereditary and other revenues are now carried into, and made a part of, the aggregate fund ; and the aggregate fund is charged with the payment of the whole annuity to the crown. The limited annuity accepted by his pre-sent majesty was at first L. 800,000, but it has been since augmented to L. 900,000. The expences them-felves, being put under the same care and management as the other branches of the public patrimony, produce more, and are better collected than heretofore ; and the public is a gainer of upwards of L. 100,000
per annum 
by this disinterested bounty of his majesty.
I he finking fund, though long talked of as the last resource of the nation, proved very inadequate to the purpose for which it was established. Ministers found pretences for diverting it into other channels ; and the diminution of the national debt proceeded slowly during the intervals of peace, whilst each succeeding war increased it with great rapidity. To remedy this evil, and restore the public credit, to which the late war had given a considerable shock, Mr Pitt conceived a plan for diminishing the debt by a fund, which should be rendered unalienable to any other purpose. In the feffion 1786, he moved that the annual surplus of the revenue above the expenditure should be raised, by additional taxes, srom L. 900,000 to one million Sterling, and that cer* tain commissioners should be veiled with the full power of difposing of this fum in the purchase of stock (see Funds), for the public, in their own names. These commissioners should receive the annual million by quarterly payments of L. 250,000, to be issued out of the exchequer before any other money, except the interest of the national debt itself ; by these provisions, the fund would be secured, and no deficiencies in the na-tional revenues could affect it, but such must be fepa~ rately provided for by parliament.
The accumulated compound interest on a million yearly, together with the annuities that would fall into that fund, would, he said, in 28 years amount to such a sum as would leave a furplus of four millions annually, to be applied, if necessary, to the exigencies of the state. In appointing the commissioners, he should, he faid, endeavour to choofe persons of such weight and ' character as corresponded with the importance of the commission they were to execute. The fpeaker of the houfe of commons, the chancellor of the exchequer, the master of the rolls, the governor and deputy governor of the bank of England, and the accountant-general of the high court of chancery, were persons who, from their feveral situations, he should think highly proper to be of the number.
To the principle of this bill no objection was madej though several specious but ill-founded ones were urged against the sufficiency of the mode which the chancellor of the exchequer had adopted for the accomplishment. of fo great and so desirable an end. He had made it a clause in his bill, that the accumulating million should never be applied but to the purchase of stock. To this clause Mr Fox objected, and moved that the commit-
fioners therein named should be impowered to accept fo much of any future loan as they should have cash be-longing to the public to pay for. This, he said, would relieve that distress the country would otherwise be under, when, on account of a war, it might be nccessary to raise a new Ioan : whenever that shoisid be the case, his opinion was, that the minister should not only raise taxes sufficiently productive to pay the interest of the· loan, but also sufficient to make good to the finking, fund whatsoever had been taken from it.
If, therefore, for instance, at any future period a loan of fix millions was proposed, and there was at that time one million in the hands of the commissioners, in fuch case they should take a million of the loan, and the 
bonus
or
douceur
thereupon should be received by them for the public. Thus government would only have five millions to borrow instead of fix ; and from sueh a mode of proceeding, he said, it was evident great benefit would arise to the public.
This claule was received by Mr Pitt with the strcngest marks of approbation, as was likewise another, moved by Mr Pulteney, enabling the commissioners named in the bill to continue purchafing stock for the public when· it is above par, unless otherwise directed by parliament, with these additional clauses the bill was read a third-time on the 15th of May, and carried up to the Lords, where it alfo passed without meeting with any material opposition, and afterwards received the royal assent.
r Γhe operation of this bill surpassed perhaps the mi-nister’s most sanguine expectation. The fund was ably managed, and judiciously applied ; and in 1793 the commissioners had extinguished some millions of■ the public debt. The war, however, into which the nation was that year involved, and of which there is yet no cer-tain prospect of a near end, has made it neceslary to bor-row additional sums, so large, that .many years of peace must elapse before the operation of the fund can contribute sensibly. to the relief of the people. The clear produce of the taxes raised on the people of this.country was, in the year; 1792, very near L.. 17,000,oco ; and it must henceforth, from the accumulation of the debt, and the enormous expence of the prefent war, be necessarily rendered greater.
Revenue,
in hunting, a fleshy lump formed chiefly by a cluster of whitish worms on the head of the deer, supposed to occafion the casting of their horns by gnaw-ing them at the root.
REVERBERATION, in physics, the act of a body repelling or reflecting another after its impinging thereon.
Reverberation,
in chemistry, denotes a kind of circulation of the flame by means of a reverberatory furnace.
REVERBERATORY, or
REfΕREERAt ∏NG Furnace.
See
Chf.mis
τκ∖-Iηdex zt Furnace,
and
Furnace;
REVEREND, a title of refpect given to eccleτ fiastics.—The religious abroad are called
reverend fathers,
and abbesses, prioresses, &c«
reverend mothers.
In England, bishops are
right reverend,
and archbishops 
τnofi reverend.
In France, before the Revolution, their bishops, archbishopa, and abbots, were .all alike
mofi reverend.
In Scotland the clergy individually are
reverend,
a synod is
very reverend,
.and the general affembly is
venerable.
REVERIE, the same with delirium, raving, or
diffraction. It is used also for any ridiculous, extra
vagant imagination, action, or proposition, a chimera, or vision. But the most ordinary use of the word among English writers, is for a deep disorderly musing or meditation.
REVERSAL
os
Judgment,
inlaw. A judgment may be falsisied, reversed, or voided, in the first place; 
without a writ of error,
for matters foreign fo or
dehors 
the record, that is, not apparent upon the face of it ; so that they cannot be affigned for error in the superior court, which can only judge from what appears in the record itself ; and therefore, if the whole record be not certified, or not truly certified, by the inferior court, the party injured thereby (in both civil and criminal cafes) may allege a diminution of the record, and cause it to be rectified. Thus, if any judgment whatever be given by persons who had no good commission to pro-ceed against the person condemned, it is void ; and may be falfified by shewing the special matter, without writ of error. As, where a commission iffues to A and B, and twelve others, or any two of them, of which A or B shall be one, to take and try indictments ; and any of the other twelve proceed without the interposition or presence of either A or B : in this cafe all proceedings, trials, convictions, and judgments, are void for want of a proper authority in the commissioners, and may be falsisied upon bare inspection, without the trouble of
a 
writ of error ; it being a high misdemeanour in the judges fo proceeding, and little (if any thing) short of murder in them all, in case the person so attainted be executed and suffer death. So likewise if a man pur*
chafes land of another ; and afterwards the vender isi either by outlawry or his own confession, convicted and attainted of treason or felony previous to the sale or alienation ; whereby such land becomes liable to forfeit-ure or escheat : now, upon any trial, the purchaser is at liberty, without bringing any writ of error, to falsify not only the time of the felony or treason suppofed, but the very point of the felony or treafon itself ; and is not concluded by the confeffion or the outlawry of the vender, though the vender himself is concluded, and not suffered now to deny the fact, which he has by confession or flight acknowledged. But if such attainder of the vender was by verdict, on the oath of his peers, the alienee cannot be received to falsify or contradict the
fact 
of the crime committed ; though he is at liberty to prove a mistake in
time,οx
that the offence was committed after the alienation, and not before..
Secondly, a judgment may be reverfed,
by writ of error,
which lies from all inferior criminal jurisdictions to the court of king’s-bench, and from the king’s-bench to the hαufe of peers ; ,and may be brought for notorious mistakes in the judgment or other parts of the record : as where a man is found guilty of perjury, and receives the judgment of felony, or for other less palpable errors ; fuch as any irregularity, omiffion, or want of form in the process of outlawry, or proclama-tions ; the want of a proper addition to the defendant’s name, according to the statute of additions ; for not properly naming the sheriff or other officer of the court, or not duly describing where his county-court was held: for laying an offence, committed in the time of the late king, to be done against the peace of the present ; and for many other similar. causes, which (though allowed out of tenderness to life and liberty) are not much to the credit or advanv⅛meffΓ of the national justice.—-
These writs of error, i⅛ reverse judgments in case of.
4
misdemeanours, are not to be allowed of course, but on sufficient probable cause shown to the attorney-general ; and then they are understood to be grantable of common right, and
ex debito jufitii<e.
But writs of error to reverse attainders in capital cafes are only allowed
ex gratia ;
and not without express warrant under the king’s sign-manual, or at least by the consent of the at· torney-general. These therefore can rarely be brought by the party himself, especially where he is attainted for an offence against the state : but they may be brought by his heir or executor after his death, in more favourable times ; which may be fome consolation to his fa∙ mily. But the easier and more effectual way is,
Lastly, to reverse the attainder by act of parliament. This may be and hath been frequently done upon mo-tives of compaffion, or perhaps the zeal of the times, after a fudden revolution in the government, without examining too closely into the truth or validity of the errors affigned. And fometimes, though the crime be universally acknowledged and confeffed, yet the merits of the criminal’s family shall after his death obtain a restitution in blood, honours, and estate, or some or one of them, by act of parliament ; which (so far as it ex-tends) has all the effect of reverfing the attainder, with-out casting any reflections upon the justice of the preceding sentence. See Attainder.
The effect of fallifying or reversing an outlawry £¾ that the party stiali be in the same plight as if he had appeared upon the
capias :
and, if it be before plea pleaded, he shall be put to plead to the indictment ; if, after conviction, he shall receive the sentence of the law; for all the other proceedings, except only the process of outlawry for his non-appearance, remain good and effectual as before. But when judgment, pronounced upon conviction, is falsified or reversed, all former pro-ceedings are absolutely set aside, and the party stands as if he had never been at all accused ; restored in his cre-dit, his capacity, his blood, and his estates : with regard to which last, though they be granted away by the crown,, yet the owner may enter upon the grantee, with ■ as little ceremony as he might enter upon a diffeisor.— But he still remains liable to another prosecution for the same offence : for, the sirst being erroneous, he never was in jeopardy thereby.
REVERSE of a medal,-coin, &c. denotes the se-cond or back side, in opposition
to
the head or princi-pal figure.
REVERSION, in Scots law. See
Law, Nc
clxix. i—3∙    .
Reversion, in the law of England, has two signi-fications ; the one of which is an estate left, which con-tinues during a particular estate in being ; and the other is the returning of the land, &c. after the parii-ticular estate is ended ; and it is further faid to be an interest in lands, when the poffeffion of it fails, or where the estate which was for a time parted with, returns to the granters, or their heirs. But, according to the usual definition of a reversion, it is the residue of an estate left in the granter, after a particular estate granted away ceases, continuing in the granter of such an estate.
The difference between a remainder and a reversion consists in this, that the remainder may belong to any man except the granter ; whereas the
reverfion returns ta him who convey ed the lands,
&c.
In order
to
render the doctrine of reverfions easy, we shall give the following table ; which shows the present value of one pound, to be received at the end of any number of years not exceeding 40 ; discounting at thc rate of 5, 4, and 3
per cent,
compound interesh
The use of the preceding table.—To find the present value of any sum to be received at the end of a given term of years, discounting at the rate of 3, 4, or 5
per cent,
compound interest. Find by the above table the prefent value of 11. to be received at the end of the given term ; which, multiply by the number of pounds proposed, (cutting off four figures from the product on account of the decimals), then the result will be the va-
lue fought: For example, the present value of 10,000k
to
be received
jo years hence,
and
the rate of interest Ç
per cent,
is equal to .6 ! 39×10,0000 = 6i39.00c0l. or 6139k Again, thc present value os 10,000 1. due in ten years, the rate of interest being 3
per cent,
is .7441 × 10,000 = 7441.
Reversion os Series,
in algebra, - a kind os reversed operation of an infinite series. See Series.
REVIVIFICATION, in chemistry, a term ge-ηerally applied to the distillation of quicksilver from cinnabar.    #
C0M⅛rtssι0N
of REVIEW, is a commission some-times granted, in extraordinary cafes, to revile the sentence of the court of delegates, when it is appre-hended they have been lcd into a material error. This commission the king may grant, although the statutes 24 and 25 Hen. VIII. declare the sentence of the de-legates definitive : becaufe the pope, as supreme head by the canon law, ufed to grant such commission of review; and such authority as the pope heretofore exerted is now annexed to the crown by statutes 26 Hen. VIII, c.
I.
and 1 Eliz. c.
I.
But it is not matter of right, which the fubject may demand
ex debito jufiiti<e ;
but merely a matter of favour, and which therefore is often denied.
Review, is the drawing out ail or part of the army in line of battle, to be viewed by the king,«or a general, that they may know the condition of the troops.
At all reviews, the officers should be properly arm-ed, ready in their exercise, salute well, in good time, and with a good air ; their uniform genteel, &c. The men should be clean and well dressed ; their accoutrements well put on ; very well fized in their ranks ; the serjeants expert in their duty, drummers perfect in their beatings, and the fifers play correct. The manual ex-ercise must be performed in good time, and with life ; and the men carry their arms well ; march, wheel, and form with exactness. All manœuvres must be performed with the utmost regularity, both in quick and flow -time. The firings are generally 36 rounds; viz. by companies ; by grand divisions ; by subdivisions ; ob-liquely, advancing, retreating ; by files ; in the square ; street firings, advancing and retreating ; and lastly, a volley. The intention of a review is, to know the condition of the troops, see that they are complete and perform their exercise and evolutions well.
Review is also applied to Literary Journals, which give a periodical view of the state of literature j as the Monthly Review, the Critical Review, the British Critic, and Analytical Review, &c.
RE-UN10N island, an island in the South Sea, discovered by the French on the 16th December 1773; lying, according to M. de Pages, in latitude 480 21", and longitude 663 47", the variation of the needle being 300 always towards north-west. The road and harbour are extremely good, and the latter from 16 to 8 fathoms deep at the very shore. The coast on each side is lofty, but gteen, with an abrupt descent, and swarms with a species of bustards. The penguins and sea-lions, which swarmed on the sands, were nowise alarmed at the approach of those who landed; from whence M. de Pages concluded that the country was wholly uninhabited. The foil produces a kind of grafs, about live .inches long, with a broad black leaf, and seemingly of 
ά
rich quality—but there was no vestige of a tree or
human habitation, See
Travels round the Wοrld∖yy
Mt
de Pages, V0I, III. chap. viii. and ix.
REVOLUTION, in politics, signisies
a
change in the constitution of a state ; and is a word of different import from
revolt,
with which it is sometimes confound-ed, when a people withdraw their obedience srom their governors for any particular reason, without overturning the government, or waging an offensive war against it, they are in a state of revolt; when they over-turn the government and foιm a new one for themselves, they effect a
revolution.
That which is termed
the revolution
in Britain is the change which, in 1688, took place in consequence of the forced abdication of king James II. when the Pro-testant succeflion was established, and the constitution restored to its primitive purity. 01 this important transaction, which confirmed the rights and liberties of Britons, we have endeavoured to give an impartial account under another article (see Britain, no 281, &c). Οί the rise and progress of the American revolution, which is still fresh in the memory of our readers, a large detail is given under the article America : But there are two other revolutions yet depending, of which some account will be expected in this place.
The Poli(h revolution, which, in all its circumstances, was perhaps the least exceptionable of any in the records of history, we have already traced to the period when the amiable king, over-awed by the arms of Rus-sia, was obliged to undo his patriotic work, and give his fonction to the restoration of the old and wretched government (fee Poland). Since that period, Kos-ciusko’s army has been completely defeated, himself made a prisoner, warfow taken, and the whole king-dom subdued by the powers combined against it. what will be the consequence of this success may perhaps be conceived, bur the rumours of the day are various. At one time we are told, that Poland is to be no longer an independent state, but to be divided among the three great powers which formerly wrested from it some of its most valuable provinces. At another time, we hear of the disinterested intention of the Emprefs, to restore the king to his original authority ; although she has, in the mean time, driven him from his capital, where she herfelf exercises fovereign power. And a third report fays, that Stanislaus is to retire with a large penlion, and a Ruffian prince to step into his throne. The sirst ot these rumours we think much more probable than the other two : especially as it seems confirmed by the following letter fent from Grod-no, on the 18th of January, by the unfortunate king to the British ambassador.
" My dear Gardiner—Tlιe characters with which you and I have been invested seem to be now almost at an end. I do not expect to fee you again, but it is of importance to me to bid you farewell ; and this I do from the bottom of my heart. You will preserve a place in my heart till death ; and I hope that at last we shall meet again, in a place where upright minds, ac-cording to my opinion, will be for ever united.
“ Every thing belonging to the usual etiquette has been so much deranged and interrupted by my fod fate, that most probably neither you nor
I
will be able to fulfil the diplomatic customs.
“ But be assured, that
I
love and honour your
king
and nation. This you will apprize them of. Be assured also, that I wish you should preserye an affection to-wards your friend. If I am able to speak to you no more, my picture will speak to you for me ! (Signed) Stanislaus Augustus, King.”
This shows, at least, the fate of the king ; and leaving that of the kingdom to be afcertained by time, we proceed to fulfil a promise which we made respe'ting another revolution, to which all the nations of Europe are still looking with anxiety and alarm.
when treating of France under a former article, we stated a few of the more striking historical facts which led to the commencement of the revolution ; and we now come to trace the feries of transactions which have marked its terrible career. In doing this, we shall comprefs our ideas as much as possible ; and out of the endless variety of materials of which the public are in poffeffion, we shall endeavour to extract a short and, if possible, a tolerably clear detail. For this purpose, however, it will be necessary that we begin, by stating the internal situation of France at the period immediately preceding the revolution, along with the more obvious political circumstances which contributed to the production of that event. The moral history of man is always more important than the mere recital of any phyfical occurrences that may take place in his lot. It is not the fall of a mighty monarch and the dispersion of his family ; it is not the convulsion of empires, and the oceans of human blood which have been shed, that render the French revolution peculiarly interesting. Such events, however deplorable, are far from being without example in the history of mankind. In the populous regions of the east, where superstition and slavery have always prevailed, they are regarded as form-jng a part of the ordinary course of human affairs ; be-caufe an intrepid and skilful usurper finds it easy to intimidate or ensnare millions of weak and credulous men. In Europe the cafe is very different ; no adventurer can advance far without encountering thoufands as artful and as daring as himself. Events are not the refult either of blind hazard or of individual skill ; confpira-cies or plots produce little effect. Like other arts, the art of government has been brought to much perfection ; and an established constitution can only be shaken by the strong convulsion produced by national passions and efforts. The wonderful fpectacle which we are now to contemplate, is that of a mild and polished people be-coming in an instant fa∙nguinary and fierce ; a well esta-blished government, celebrated for its dexterity and skill, overturned almqst without a struggle ; a whole nation apparently uniting to destroy every institution which antiquity had hallo>vcd or education taught them to respect ; a superstitious people treating the religion of their fathers with contempt ; a long enslaved people, whose very chains had become dear to them, occupied in their public counsels in the discuffion of refined, and even visionary fchemes of freedom : in short, 25,000,000 of persons suddenly treading under foot every sentiment and every prejudice that they themselves had once regarded as sacred and venerable.
Like the other nations of Europe, France was anciently governed by a barbarous aristocracy, whose different members were feebly united by the authority of
a
succession of kings destitute of power or influence. The nobles, within their own territories, enjoyed privileges entirely royal : they made peace and war ; they coined money; they were judges i∏ the last resort; their vassals were their slaves, whom they bought and fold along with the lands ; the inhabitants of cities, although freemen, were depressed and poor, depending for protection upon some tyrannical baron in their neighbourhood. At length, however, by the progress of the arts, the cities role into considerable importance, and their inhabitants, along with such freemen of low rank as resided in the conntry, were considered as enti-tled to a representation in the states-general of the kingdom, under the appellation of
tiers etat,
or
third efiaιe ; 
the clergy and the nobles forming the two first estates. But the fovereign, having speedily become despotic, the meetings of the states general were laid aside. Thia, abiolute authority, on the part of the crown, was not acquired, as it was in England by the houfe of Tudor, by abolifhing the pernicious privileges of the nobles and elevating the commons ; but by skilful encroachments, by daring exertions of prerogative, and the use of a powerful military force. In France, therefore, the mo-narch was absolute, yet the nobles retained all their feudal privileges, and. the ecclesiastical hierarchy did the same. The following was, in a few words, the state of that country during thefe two last centuries.
Ί
he kingdom of France, previous to the. revolution, was never reduced to one homogenous mafs. It con-sisted of a variety of feparate provinces acquired by different means ; some by marriage, some by legacy", and others by conquest. Each province retained its ancient laws and privileges, whether political or civil, as expressed in their capitularies or conditions by which they were originally acquired. In one part os his do-minions the French monarch was a count, in another he was a duke, and in others he was a king ; the only bond which united his vast empire being the strong military force by which it was overawed. Each province had its barriers ; and the intercourfe betwixt one province and another was often more restrained by local ufages than the intercourfe of either with a foreign country. Some ot the provinces, such as Bretagne and Dauphiné, even retained the right of assembling periodically their provincial states; but these formed no barrier against the power of the court.
The clergy formed the sirst estate of the kingdom
in
point of precedence. They amounted to 130,000, The higher orders of them enjoyed immense revenues ; but the rιzrct or great body of acting clergy seldom poffeffed more than about L. 28 Sterling a-year, and them
vicaires
about half that sum. A few of their dignified clergy were men of great piety, who resided coa-stantly in their diocefes, and attended to the duties of their office ; but by far the greater number of them passed their lives at Paris and Verfailles, immerfed in all the intrigues and dissipation of a gav and corrupted court and capital. They were almost exclusively se-lected from among the younger branches of the families of the most powerful nobility, and accounted it a kind of dishonour to the order of bishops for any person of low rank to be admitted into it. The lower clergy, on the contrary, were persons of mean birth, and had little chance of preferment. At the same time, we find several refpectable exceptions to this last rule. The clergy, as a body, independent of the tithes, possessed a revenue ariiing from
their property in land,
amounting ∙
to four or five millions Sterling annually ; at the same time they were exempt from taxation. The crown had of late years attempted to break through this privilege. To avoid the danger, the clergy prefented to the court a free gift
of
a sum of money somewhat short ol a mil-lion Sterling every five years.
The nobility was nominally the second order of the statc, but it was in reality the first. The nobles amounted to no lefs than 200,oco in number. The title and rank defcended to all the children of the family, but the property to the eldest alone : hence vast multitudes of them were depcndent upon the bounty of the court. They regarded the ufeful and commercial arts as disho-nourable, and even the liberal professions of the law and phyfic as in a great measure beneath their dignity, dis-daining to intermarry with the families of their profef-sors. °The feudal system in its purity was extremely favourable to the production of refpectable qualities in the minds of those who belonged to the order of the nobles ; but the introduction of commerce has rendered its decline equally unfavourable to that class of men. Instead of the ancient patriarchal attachment between the feudal chieftain and his vaffals, the nobility had be-come greedy landlords in the provinces, that they mιg∩t appear in splendor at court and in the capital. There, lost in intrigue, sensuality, and vanity, their characters became frivolous and contemptible. Such of the French noblesse, however, as remained in the provinces, regard-ed with indignation this degradation os their order, and still retained a proud sense of honour and of courage, •which has always rendered them respectable. The order of the nobles was exempted from the pay ment of taxes, although the property of fome of them was immense. The estates of the prince of Conde, for example, were worth L. 200,000 a year, and those of the duke of orleans nearly twice as much. The crown had indeed imposed some trifling taxes upon the noblesse, which, however, they in a great measure contrived to elude.
Next to the nobles, and as a privileged order posses-fing a secondary kind of nobility of their own, we may mention the parliaments. These were large bodies of men, in different provinces, appointed as courts of law for the administration of justice. In consequence of the corruption of the officers of state, the members purcha-sed their places, which they held for life ; but the shn was ufually preferred when he offered to purchase his father’s place. In consequence of this last circumstance, the practifing lawyers had little chance of ever beco-ming judges. Courts thus constituted consisted of a motley mixture of old and young, learned and ignorant, men. Justice was ill administered. 'Γhe judges allowed their votes in depending causes to be openly solici-ted by the parties or their friends. No wife man ever entered into a litigation against a member of one of these parliaments
5
no lawyer would undertake to plead ■his cause.; it never came to a successful iffue, and usu-ally never came to any issue at all. After the states-general had fallen into difiιfe, the parliaments acquired a certain degree of political confequence, and formed the only check upon the absolute power of the crown. The laws, or royal edicts, before being put in force, were always sent to be registered in the books oi the parliaments. Taking advantage
of
this, in favourable times and circumstances, they often delayed or refused 
io register .the royal edicts, and presented remonstrances
against them. This was done under a kind of legal fiction : for they pretended that the obnoxious edict being injurious to the public happinefs, could not be the will of the king, but must either be a forgery or an imposition by the ministers. These objections were got the better of, either by a pofitive order from the king, or by his coming in perfon and ordering the edict to be registered. The parliaments, however, often carried their opposition very far, even to the ruin of them-felves and their families as individuals. This rendered them extremely popular with the nation, and enabled them to embarrafs a weak administration. After all, however, the oppositicn of the parliaments was fo feeble, that it was never thought worth while to abolish them entirely till towards the end of the reign of Louis XV. but they were restored as a popular meafure at the beginning of thc reign of Louis XVI.
The
tiers etat,
or commons, formed the lowest order of the state in France, and they were depressed and mi-ferable in the extreme. To form a conception of their situation, it is necessary to observe that they bore the whole pecuniary burdens of the state : They alone were liable to taxation. An expensive and ambitious court ; an army of 200,000 men in time of peace, and of twice that number in war ; a considerable marine establishment, public roads and works, were all supported exclusively by the lowest of the people. To add to the evil, the revenues were ill collected. They were let out to farmers-general at a certain sum, over and above which they not only acquired immense fortunes to them-selves, but were enabled to advance enormous presents to those favourites or mistresses of the king or the mi-nister, by means of whom they procured their places. To raise all this money from the people, they were guilty of the cruellest oppression, having it in their power to obtain whatever revenue laws they pleased, and executing them in the feverest manner. For this last purpose they kept in pay an army of clerks, subalterns, scouts, and spies, amounting to 80,000 men. These men were indeed detested by the king, whom they de* ceived and kept in poverty ; by the people, whom they oppressed ; and by the ancient nobility, as purse-proud upstarts. But the court of France could never contrive
to manage without them. The peasants could be call-ed out by the intendants of the provinces in what they called
corvées
to work upon the high roads for a certain number of days in the year, which was a source of se-vere oppreffion, as the intendant had the choice of the time and place of their employment, and was not bound to accept of any commutation in money. They were moreover subject to the nobles in a thousand ways. The nobles retained all their ancient manerial or patri-monial jurisdictions. The common people being an-ciently slaves, had obtained their freedom upon different conditions. In many places they and their posterity remained bound to pay a perpetual tribute to their feudal lords. Such tributes formed a considerable part of the revenue of many of the provincial nobles. No man could be an officer of the army, by a late regulation, who did not produce proofs of nobility for four genera-tions. The parliaments, although originally of the
tiers etat,
attempted also to introduce a rule that none but the noblesse should be admitted into their order. In such a situation, it will not be accounted surprising that the common people of Fiance were extremely supersti-
tit>U3 and ignorant. They were,
however,
paffionately devoted to their monarch, and whatever concerned him. In 1754, when Louis XV. was taken ill at Metz, the whole nation was truly in a kind of despair. The cou-rier and his horfe that brought the news of his recovery to Paris were both almost suffocated by the embraces of the people.
w^e have faid that the French monarch was despo-tic. His power was supported by his army and by a watchful police, having in pay an infinite host of spies and other servants. In France no man was safe. The secrets of private families were searched into. Nothing was unknown to the jealous inquisition of the police. Men were seized by
lettres de cachet
when they least ex-pected it, and their families had no means of discovering their fate. The sentence of a court of law against a nobleman was usually reverfed by the minister. No book was published without the licence of a censor-ge-neral appointed by the court, and the minister was ac-countable to none but the king. No account was given of the expenditure of thc public money. Enormous gratifications and penfions were given as the reward of the most infamous services. The supreme power of the state was usually lodged with a favourite mistress, and she was sometimes a woman taken from public prostitution. This was not indeed the cafe under Louis XVI. but it was nevertheless one of the mis-fortunes of his life that he was far from being absolute in his own family. Still, however, with all its faults, the French court was the most splendid and polished in Europe. It was more' the resort of men of talents and literature of every kind, and there they met with more ample protection, than anywhere else. The court was often jealous of their productions, but they met with the most distinguished attention from men of fortune and rank ; insomuch that for a century ssast the French have given the law to Europe in all questions of taste, of literature, and of every polite accomplish-ment. The gay elegance that prevailed at court dif-fused itself through the nation ; and amidst much internal misery, gave it to a foreigner the appearance of hap-piness, or at least of levity and vanity.
Such as it was, this government had stood for ages, and might have continued, had not a concurrence of causes contributed to its overthrow. The inferior orders of clergy, excluded from all chance of preferment, regarded their superiors with jealousy and envy, and were ready to join the laity of their own rank in any popular commotion. The inferior provincial noblesse beheld with contempt and indignation the vices and the power of the courtiers, and the higher nobility wished to diminish the power of the crown. The practising lawyers, almost entirely excluded from the chance of becoming judges, wished eagerly for a change of affairs, not doubting that their talents and professional skill would render them necessary amidst any alterations that could occur- Accordingly, they were the first instruments in producing the. revolution, and have been its most active supporters. The monied interest wished ca-gerly for the downfal of the ancient nobility. As for the great mafs of the common people, they were too ignorant, too firperstitiously attached to old establish-wιents, and too much depressed, to have any conception of the nature of political liberty, or any hope of obtaining it. we have already stated the leading circum-stances which led to the French revolution (see Franck, no 184, &c. ) ; but there were other circumstances which contributed in an equal degree both to its commence-ment and its progress.
For 40 years the principles of liberty had been disse-minated with eagerness in France by some men of great talents, as Rousseau, Helvetius, and Raynal, to whom the celebrated Montefquieu had led the way. Besides thefe, there was in France a vast multitude of what were called
men os letters,
or persons who gave this account of the manner in which they fpent their time. All these were deeply engaged on the fide of some kind of political reform. The men of letters in Paris alone are said to have amounted to 20,000. Cue of the last acts of the admiiiistration of the archbishop of Thouloufe was, on the 5th July 1788, to publish a refolution of the king in council, inviting all his subjects to give him their advice with regard to the state of affairs. This was confidered as a concession of an unlimited liberty of the press ; and it is scarcely possible to form an idea of the infinite variety of political publications which from that period diffused among the people a dissatisfaction with the order of things in which they had hitherto lived.
The established religion of France had for fome time past been gradually undermined. It had been solemnly assaulted by philosophers in various elaborate performances ; and men ©f wit, among ∖vlιom voltaire took the lead, had attacked it with the dangerous weapon of ridicule. The Roman Catholic religion is much expofed in this respect, in consequence of the multitude of falfe miracles and legendary tales with which its history abounds, without discriminating betwixt the refpect-able principles on which it rests, and the fuperstitious follies by which they had been defaced, the French nation learned to laugh at the whole, and rejected instead of reforming the religion of their fathers. Thus the first order in the state had already begun to be regarded as useless, and the minds of men were prepared for important changes.
The immense population of the city of Paris, amounting to upwards of 800,000 fouls, rendered it an important engine in the hands of the conductors of the revolution. An overgrown capital has always proved dangerous to a government that is or attempts to be despotic, as appears srom thc history of ancient Babylon and Rome, as well as of modern Constantinople, of London under Charles I. and Paris under several of its kings.
we cannot here avoid mentioning a phyfical event, which affisted not a little in producing many of the convulsions attending the revolution, a general scarcity of grain, which occurred about that period. Οη Sun-day the 13thof July 1788, about nine in the morning, without any eclipse, a dreadful darknefe ’suddenly over-fprcad several parts of France. It was the prelude of such a tempest as is unexampled in the temperate climates of Europe, wind, rain, hail, and thunder, feemed to contend in impetuosity ; but the hail was the great instrument of ruin. Instead of the rich prospects of an early autumn, the face of nature in the space of an hour presented the dreary afpect of ιιniverfal winter. The foil was converted into a morals, the .standing corn beaten into the quagmire, the vines broken to pieces, the fruit trees demoli.shed, and unmelted hail ly-iπg in heaps like rocks of fold ice. Even the robcst
forest trees were unable to vvithstand thc fury of the tempest. The hail was compofed of enormous, iolid, and angular pieces office, some of them weighing from eight to ten ounces. The conntry people, beaten down in the fields on their way to church, amidst this concuf-sion of the elements, concluded that the last day was arrived ; and scarcely attempting to extricate themfelves, lay defpairing and half suffocated amidst the water and the mud, expecting the immediate diffolution of all things. The storm was irregular in its devastations. while several rich districts were laid entirely waste, some intermediate portions of country were comparatively little injured. Οηε of 6o square leagues had not 
a
fingle ear of corn or a fruit of any kind left, of the 66 parishes in the district of Pontoise, 43 were entirely defolated, and of the remaining 23 some lost two-thirds and others half their harvest. The isle of France, be-ing the district in which Paris is situated, and the Ογ-leannois, appear to have suffered chiefly. The damage there, upon a moderate estimate, amounted to 80,000,000 of livres, or between three and four millions Sterling. Such a calamity must at any period have been severely felt ; but occurring on the eve of a great political revolution, and amidst a general scarcity throughout Europe, it was peculiarly unfortunate, and gave more embarrassment to the government than per-haps any other event whatever. Numbers of families found it necessary to contract their mode of living for a time, and to dismifs their servants, who were thus left destitute of bread. Added to the public difcontent and political dissensions, it produced such an effect upon the people in general, that the nation seemed to have changed its character ; and instead of that levity by which it had ever been distinguished, a fettled gloom now feemed fixed on every countenance.
The spring of the year 1789 was a period of much political anxiety in France. The superior orders wished to reduce the power of the crown, but were jealous os their own privileges, and determined to retain them; while the popular philosophers and others were endeavouring to render them odious, and to rouse the people to a love of freedom. Still, however, the great body of the common people remained careless fpectators of the struggle and unconscious of the approaching commotion. Such was their indifference, that few of them took the trouble even to attend and vote at the elections of the deputies to the states-general. In many places, where a thousand voters were expected, not fifty came forward ; but such of them as did appear showed that a feed was fown which might one day rife into important fruits. In the instructions which they gave to their deputies, the British constitution was in general the model of what they wished their government to be. They demanded equal taxation, the abolition of
lettres de cachet
or arbitrary imprisonment, the refponsibility of ministers, and the extinction of the feudal privileges of the nobles ; but they wished that the whole three orders of the state should fit and vote in one house, well knowing that their nobility were not prepared to act the moderate part of a British house of lords. The nobles, on the contrary, although willing to renounce some of their pecuniary privileges, and to sacrifice the power of the crown, were most decisively resolved neither to surrender their feudal prerogatives nor the right 
of
fitting in three feparate affemblies; by means of which each
of the orders could
easily resist
the encroachments 
of the other two. Mr Neckar has been improperly cen-fured for not deciding this last important question pre-vious to the meeting of the states-gencral : but it must be observed, that the very purpose of calling that assembly vzas to overturn the unjust privileges of the higher orders through its medium, and without any di-rect interposition on the part of the ministers. Had the king positively decided in favour of three chambers, the nobles and the clergy would have retained all those ancient abuses established in their own favour, of which it was his wish to deprive them, and the crown and its prerogatives would have been the only objects of sacri-fice. It wτ as therefore thought safer to leave the
tiers etat
to fight its own battle : nor was it yet imagined that the commons of France, depressed and poor, and dispersed by situation over a multitude of provinces, could ever unite in enterprises dangerous to tire sove-reign.
The states had been summoned to meet at verfailles on the 27th of April, and most of the deputies arrived at that time ; but the elections for the city of Paris not. being concluded, the king deferred the commencement of their seffions till the 4th of May. During this period, the members, left in idleness, began to find out and form acquaintance with each other. Among others, a few members from Brittany (Bretagne) form-ed themselves into a club, into which they gradually ad-mitted many other deputies that were found to be zea-lous for the popular cause, and also many persons who were not deputies. This society, thus originally esta-blished at verfailles, was called the
Comité Breton;
and was one day destined, under the appellation of the
(fa-cobin Club,
to give laws to France, and to dissuse terror and alarm throughout Europe. Οη the other fide, the aristocratic party established conferences at the house of Madame Polignac, for the purpose, it is said, of uniting the nobles and the clergy.
An event occurred at this time which all parties ascri-bed to some malicious motive. In the populous suburb of St Antoine, a M. Reveillon carried on a great paper manufactory. A false report was spread that he intended to lower the wages of his workmen, and that he had declared bread was too good for them, and that they might subsist very well on potato-flour. A corn-motion was raifed, he was burnt in effigy, and his house was thereafter burnt and pillaged by the mob, who were not dispersed till the military had been called in, and much carnage ensued. The popular party asserted that the commotion had been artfully excited by the party of the queen and the Count D’Artois, to afford a pretence for bringing great bodies of the military to the neighbourhood to overawe the states-general, or induce the king more decifively to resolve on affembling that body at verfailles, in preference to Paris, where they and the popular minister M. Neckar wished it to be held.
Ο11 the 4th of May the states-general assembled at verfailles. They commenced bufiness by going in a folemn procession, preceded by the clergy, and foliow-ed by the king, according to ancient cnstom, to church, to perform an act of devotion. The nobles were ar-rayed in a splendid robe, and they and the higher cler-gy glittered in gold and jewels. The commons ap-peared in black, the drefs belonging to the law. The
assembly was
thereafter opened by a short speech srom the throne, in which the king congratulated hitnself up-on thus meeting his people assembled ; alluded to the national debt, and the taxes, which were severely felt becaufe unequally levied ; he took notice of the general difcontent and spirit of innovation which prevailed, but declared his confidence in the wifdom of the assembly for remedying every evil. “ May an happy union (added he) reign in this assembly; and may this epocha become ever memorable for the happiness and prosperi-tv of the country. It is the wish of my heart ; it is the most ardent desire of my prayers ; it is, in short, the price which I expect from the sincerity of my intentions and my love for my people.”
M. Barretin, the keeper of the feals, next addresscd the assembly, in a congratulatory and uninteresting speech. He was followed by the popular minister M. Neckar, who spoke for three hours. Though much applauded on account of the clear financial details which his speech contained, he encountered a certain degree of censure from all parties, on account of the cautious ambiguity which he obferved with regard to the future proceedings of the states-generah
Next day the three orders assembled scparately. The deputies of the
tiers etat
amounted to 600 in number, and those of the nobles and clergy to 300 each. During their first fittings much time was spent in unimportant debates about trifling points of form ; but the first important question, that necessarily became the fubject of their discussion, was the
verification •s thctr powers,
or production of the commissions of the members, and investigation of their authenticity. The commons
(tiers etat)
laid hold of this as a pretext for opening the grand controversy, whether the states-general should fit in one or in three feparate chambers ? They sent a deputation inviting the nobles and the clergy to meet along with them in the common hall for the purpose of
verifying their powers
in one common assembly. In the chamber of the clergy 114 members voted for the performance of this ceremony in the general assembly ; and 133 against it. But in the more haughty order of the nobles, the refolution for the verification in their own assembly was carried by a majority of 188 against 47. The commons paid no regard to this. They were conducted by bold and skilful leaders, who dis-cerned the importance of the point in contest, and re-folved not to abandon it. Aware of the exigencies of the state, they knew that the crown was nearly verging upon bankruptcy ; and that such were the deficiencies of the revenue that only a short delay was necessary to accomplish the absolute dissolution of the government. They sussered five weeks to pals away therefore in total inactivity. During this period proposals were made on the part of the ministry for a pacification between the three orders, and conferences were opened by com-missioners from each. But no art could seduce the commons from their original purpose, or prevail with them to enter upon the bull nefs of the state.
The nation had expected much from the assembling of the states-general, and learnt the news of their inaction with no fmall degree of concern. The
tiers etat
was naturally popular, and the public censure could not readily devolve upon that favourite order. Moreover, srom the first period of their assembling the commons 
made every effort to augment their own natural popu
larity. They admitted all persons promiscuoufly into the galleries, and even into the body of their hail. No restraint was attempted to be laid upon the most vehement marks os popular applause or censure. Lifts of the voters names were publicly taken and sent to Paris upon every remarkable occasion ; and the members sud-denly found themselves become, according to their political sentiments, the objects of general execration or applause. The new and bold notions of liberty that were daily advanced by the leaders of the
tiers etat
were received with acclamation by their hearers. The capi-tal became interested in the issue of every debate ; and the political fervor was eagerly imbibed by the nation with that vivacity which is so peculiar to the French. The commons accused the nobles of obstinately impeding the business of the state, by refusing to verify their powers in one common assembly. The accusation was swallowed by the multitude, who saw not, or were unwilling to see, that the attack was made by their own favourite order. In the mean time the nobles became rapidly more and more unpopular. Their perfons were insulted, new publications daily came forth, and were greedily bought up, which reviled their whole order, and represented them as an useless or pernicious body of men, whose existence ought not to be tolerated in a free state. whoever adhered to them was branded with the odious appellation of
Briβocrate.
The clergy, from the influence of the parish
curés
or parfons, feemed ready
to defert their cause. They were even opposed by a minority of their own body, which derived lustre from ha-ving at its head the duke of orleans, the first prince of the blood. Still, however, the majority of the nobles remained firm ; well aware, that if they once con-fented to lit in the same assembly, and to vote promif-cuously, with the ambitious and more numerous body of the commons, their wdιole order, and all its splendid privileges, must speedily be overthrown.
The leaders of the commons saw the change that was taking place in the minds of men ; and they at length regarded the period as arrived when they ought to emerge from their inactivity, and execute the daring project of seizing the legislative authority in their country. They declared that the reprefentatives of the nobles and the clergy were only the deputies of particular incorporations whom they would allow to fit and vote along with themselves ; but who had no title in a collective capacity to act as the legislators of Franc,e. For conducting business with more facility, they appointed 20 committees. In consequence of a proposal by the Abbé Sieyes, a final message was fent to the privileged orders requiring their attendance as individuals, and intimating that the commons, as thc deputies of 96 out of every hundred of their country-men, were about to affume the exclufive power of le-gislation. None of the nobles obeyed this summons ; but three cures, Messrs Cesve, Ballard, and Jalot, presented their commissions, and were received with loud acclamations. They were next day followed by five more, among whom were Messrs Gregoire, Dillon, and Bodineau. After some debate concerning the appella-tion which they ought to affirme, the commons, with such of the clergy as had joined them, solemnly voted themselves the fovereign legislators of their country un-derthe name of the
National Λffembly,
The resultof the vote was no sooner declared, than the hall resounded
with shouts from the immense concourse of spectators of " Vive le Roi et vive l’affemble nationale,”
Long live the king and the national assembly.
M. Bailly was chosen president for four days only, Messrs Camus and Pison de Galand fεcrctaries, and the assembly proceeded to bu∙ finess.
Its first acts were decisively expressive of its own so-vereignty. All taxes imposed without the consent of the reprefentatives of the people were declared to be null and void ; but a temporary fonction was given to the present taxes, although illegal, till the dissolution of the assembly and no longer. It was added, that " as soon as, in concert with his majesty, the assembly should be able to fix the principles of national regeneration, it would take into considerat ion the
national debt,
placing from the prefent moment the creditors of the state un-der the fofeguard and honour of the French
nation.”
The popular caufe now gained ground fo fast, that on the 19th of June a majority of the clergy voted for the verification of their powers in common with the national assembly, and they resolved to unite with them on the following day.
Affairs were now come to a crifis, and the nobleβ perceived that they must instantly make a decifive stand, or yield up their cause as finally loft. Such was their alarm, that M. d’Espremenil proposed, at one of the fittings of their order, to address the king, intreating him to dissolve the states-generah Hi-therto that prince had gone along with M. Neckar in favouring the popular cause in opposition to the aristo' cracy. But every art was now used to alarm his mind upon the subject of the late assumptions of power on the part of the commons, and these arts were at length successful. Repeated counsels were held ; M. Neckar was absent attending a dying fister, and the king was prevailed upon to act agreeably to the advice of the leaders of the nobles. But the first meafure which they adopted was fo ill conducted as to afford little prospect of final success to their cause. Οη the 20th of June,, when the president and members were about to enter as usual into their own hall, they found it unexpectedly surrounded by a detachment of the guards, who refused them admiffion, while the heralds at the same time pro-claimed a royal session. Alarmed by this unforeseen event, the meaning of which they knew not, but ap-prehending that an immediate dissolution of the assembly was designed, they instantly retired to a neighbouring tennis-court, where, in the vehemence of their enthu-iiasm, they took a folemn oath " never to feparate till the constitution of their country should be completed.”
Οη the 22d a new proclamation intimated that the royal session, was deferred till the following day. It was now found that the assembly had been excluded from their hall merely becaufe the workmen were oc-cupied in preparing it for the intended solemnity. This information was ill calculated to excite favourable expectations of the measures about to be adopted at a royal seffion, ushered in by such circumstances of mark-ed disrespect for the reprefentatives of the people. The assembly, after wandering about in search of a place of meeting, at length entered the church of St Louis, and were immediately joined by the majority of the clergy, with their president, the archbishop of vienne, at their head.
Two
nobles of Dauphiné, the marquis de Blacon and.
the count
d’Agoult,
prescnted. their cou∖-
missions at the same time. Encouraged by these events, and by the applauses of fiμroundiιιg multitudes, the assembly now expected with firmness the measures about to be adopted.
The royal'seffion was held in the most fplendid form,D but altogether in the style of the ancient despotism. Soldiers surrounded the hall. The two superior orders were seated, while the reprefentatives of the people, left standing a full hour in the rain, were in no humour, when at last admitted, to receive with much compla-cency the commands of their fovereign. The king read a discourse, in which he declared null and void the resolutions of the r7tl1, but at the same time presented the plan of a constitution for France. It contained many good and patriotic principles, but preserved the distinction of orders, and the exercise of
lettres de cachet ;
it foid nothing about any active share in the le-gislative power to be possessed by the states-general, and was silent both about the responsibility of ministers and the liberty of the prefs. The king concluded by commanding the deputies immediately to retire, and to as-semble again on the following day. He then withdrew, and was followed by all the nobles and a part of the clergy. The commons remained in gloomy silence on their feats. It was interrupted by the grand master of the ceremonies, who reminded the president of the intentions of the king. Instantly the vehement count de Mirabeau, starting from his feat, exclaimed with indignation, " s'he commons of France have determined to debate, we have heard the intentions that have been suggested to the king ; and you, who cannot be his agent with the states-general, you who have here neither feat nor voice, nor a right to speak, are not the perfon to remind us of his ipeech. Go tell your master, that we are here by the power , of the people, and that nothing shall expel us but the bayonet.” '1 he applause of the assembly seconded the enthusiasm os the orator, and the master of the ceremonies withdrew in filence.
M. Camus then rose ; and in a violent speech indignantly stigmatised the royal seffion by the obnoxious appellation of a
bed osjufiice ;
he concluded by moving that the assembly should declare their unqualified adhe-rence to their former decrees. This motion was fol» lowed by another, pronouncing the persons of the de-puties inviolable. Both were iuppoιted by Messrs Pc’ tion, Barnave, Glaizen, the Abbés Gregoire, Sieyes, and many others, and were unanimously decreed. The assembly therefore continued their fittings in the usual form. Οη the following day the majority of the clergy attended as mcmbers ; and on the 25th the duke of ûrleans, along with 49 of the deputies belonging to the order of nobles, joined them also. The remaining nobles, as well as the fmall minority of the clergy, now found themselves aukwardly situated. whether on this account, or because their leaders had by.this time formed a plan for carrying their point not by peaceable means but by the aid of a military force, the king, on the 27th, invited by a preffing letter both orders to join the commons. This request was immediately complied with, although many of the nobility difoppro-ved of the raeasure.
The situation of France was now become truly alarming, when the king retired from the assembly after the royal seffion, he was followed by more than 6000
citizens, from whom loud clamours and every mark of disapprobation broke forth. All verfailles was fpeedily in an uproar. M. Neckar had repeatedly folicited his dismission, and the report of this had increased the po-pular clamour. The court was in consternation. The king probably discovered, with no great fatisfaction, that his minister was more popular than himself. At fix o’clock in the evening the queen fent for M. Nec-kar. when he returned from the palace, he affined the crowd that waited for him that he would not abandon them ; upon which they retired satissied. At the same time the news of the royal session had thrown the city of Paris into violent agitation. The peace of that ca-pital was at this time endangered by a variety of causes. A dreadful famine raged through the land, which in a great city is usually most severely felt. This prepared the minds of men for receiving unfavourable impres-fions of their political state. Every effort was more-over made to disorganize the government, and produce a dislike to the ancient order of things. The press poured forth innumerable publications, filled with new and feducing, though generally impracticable, theories of liberty. These were distributed^r«/z'j· among the bulk of the people of Paris, and dispersed in the fame manner through the provinces. Philip duke of Ογ-leans (presumptive heir to the crown failing the children and brothers of the king) is with good reason believed to have supplied this expence out of his more than royal revenues. In the gardens of the Palais Royale at Paris, which belonged to him, an immense multitude was daily assembled, listening from morning to night to orators who descanted upon the most violent subjects of popular politics. Many of these orators were fuspected to be in his pay. It was even believed that his money found its way into the pockets of some of the most distinguished leaders in the national assem-bly.
But the government was, if possible, still more dan-gerously assaulted by the methods now generally used to seduce the military. Every officer of the French army belonged to the order of the nobles ; and from that quarter, therefore, it might have been imagined that there was little danger. But this very circumstance became the means of diforganizing that great engine of despotism. As the soldiers could not avoid imbibing some of the new opinions, their own officers became the first objects of their jealousy ; especially in consequence of that impolitic edict of Louis XVI. which required every officer to produce proofs of four degrees of nobi-Iity ; and thus insulted, by avowedly excluding the pri-vate men from promotion. Perhaps with a view to what might happen, the instructions to the deputies of the
tiers eta(
had recommended an increase of the p y of the soldiers. And now at Paris every art was used to gain them to the popular cause. They were con-ducted to the Palais Royal, and were there caressed and flattered by the populace, while they listened to the po-pular harangues. These arts were successful. Οη the 23d of June they first refused to fire on the mob in a riot. Some of them were on the 30th reported to be
in confinement for this offence ; a crowd instantly col-lected, and rescued them, the dragoons that were brought to supprefs the tumult grounding their arms : a deputation of the citizens folicited of the assembly the pardon of the prisoners. The assembly applied to the king, who pardoned them accordingly.
All these events, together with the tumultuous state of the capital, which was daily increafing, made it necessary for the king to call out the military force to restore, if possible, the public peace. 'Γhat his intentions were pure, the then state of affairs will permit no man but a democrate to doubt ; but the aristocracy, with the Count d’Artois at their head, were bringing forward other measures, which ultimately contributed to the ruin of themselves, the king, and the kingdom. Crowds of soldiers were collected from all parts of the kingdom around Paris and verfailles. It was observed,
. that these confisted chiefly of foreign mercenaries. Camps were traced out. Marshal Broglio, a tried ve-teran, was sent for and placed at the head of the army. The king was supposed to have entirely yielded to new counsels, and every thing bore the appearance of a desperate effort to restore the energy of the ancient government. This is the most important period of the French revolution ; yet the specific designs os the leading actors have never been clearly understood. It was rumoured at the time, that Paris was to be subdued by a liege and bombardment ; that the assembly was to be dissolved, and its leaders put to death. These are in
credible exaggerations ; but the crisis of French liberty was universally regarded as at hand, and also the existence of the national assembly as an independent body ; or at least upon any other footing than that proposed by the king on the 23d of June.
An able and eloquent address to the king against the assemblage of foreign troops in their neighbourhood was brought forward by Mirabeau, and voted by the assembly. The king properly replied, that the state of the capital was the cause of assembling the troops, and offered to transfer the states-general to Noyons or Sois-fons. " we will neither remove (exclaimed Mirabeau) to Noyons· nor to Soissons ; we will not place ourselves between two hostile armies, that which is besieging Pa-ris and that which may fall upon us from Flanders or Alsace ; we have not asked permission to run away from the troops ; we have defined that the troops-should be ‘ removed from the capital.”
Ί hirty-five thouland men were now stationed in the neighbourhood of Paris and verfailles. The posts were occupied which commanded the city, and camps were marked out for a greater force. The Count d’Artois and his party regarded their plans as ripe for execu-tion ; and M. Neckar received a letter from the king, requiring him to quit the kingdom in 24 hours. That popular (a) minister took the route of Brussels on the following day, when his departure was made public. In his dismiffion the popular, or as it was now called the
democratic,
party thought they faw the refolution ■ adopted to accomplish their ruin. The affembly again addrefled the throne ; they requested anew the removal
(a)
Popular he certainly was ; but he either had not fortitude
and talents to execute his own plans, or acted a bafe part .to. his amiable master. From baseness we acquit him.
of the troops, offering to be responsible for the public peace, and to proceed in a body to Paris to encoun-ter personally every danger that might occur. But they were coolly told, that the king was the best judge of the mode of employing the troops, and that the pre-fence of the assembly was necessary at Verfailles. From a fovereign wh® doubtless recollected the proceedings of the long parliament of England, a different reply could not in reafon be expected. Οη receiving it, however, it was instantly decreed, on the motion of the marquis de la Fayette, that the late ministry had
carried with them
the confidence of the assembly ; that the troops
ought
to be
removed ;
that the ministry are and shall be responsible to the people for their conduct ; that the assembly persisted in all its former decrees ; and that as it had taken the public debt under the protec-tion of the nation, no power in France was entitled to pronounce the infamous word
bankruptcy.
The city of Paris was thrown into deep consterna-tion by the news of M. Neckar’s retreat. His bull and that of the Duke dOrleans were dressed in mourning, and carried through the streets. The royal Alle-mand, a German regiment, broke in pieces the busts, and dispersed the populace. The prince De Lambesq, grand ecuyer of France, was ordered to advance with his regiment of cavalry, and take post at the Tlιuilleries. Being a man of a violent temper, and enraged by the appearances of disapprobation which were visible around him, he furiously cut down with his sword a poor old man who was walking peaceably in the gardens. The consequences of this act of inhumanity were such as might have been expected ; a shout of execration instantly arose ; the cry
to arms
was heard ; the military were assaulted on all sides ; the French guards joined their countrymen, and compelled the Germans, over-powered by numbers, and unsupported by the rest of the army, to retire.
All order was now at an end, and as night approached an universal terror dissused itself through the city. Bands of robbers were collecting ; and from them or from the foreign soldiery a general pillage was expected. The night passed away in consternation and tumult. It was found in thc morning that the hospital of St Lazare was already plundered. The alarm bells were rung ; the citizens assembled at the Hotel de ville, and adopted a proposal that was there made, of enrolling themselves as a militia for general defence, under the appellation of the
national guard.
This day and the succeed-ing night were spent in tolerable quietness, without any attempt on the part of the army. Οη the morning of the memorable 14th of July, it was discovered that the troops encamped in the Champs Elisees had moved off, and an immediate assault was expected. The national guard now amounted to 150,000 men ; but they were in general destitute of arms. They had assumed a green cockade ; but on recollecting that this was the livery of the Count d’Artois, they adopted one of red, blue, and white. M. de la Salle was named commander in chief, officers were chosen, and detachments sent around in quest of arms. In the Hotel des Invalides upwards of 30,000 stand of arms were found, along with 20 pieces of cannon ; a variety of weapons was alfo procured from the
garde meuble de la couronne,
and from the shops of armourers, cutlers, &c.    »
The celebrated fortress of the Bastile was an object
of much jealousy to the Parisians.
At 1
1 o'clock
in
the morning, M. de la Rosiere, at the head of a numerous deputation, waited upon M. de Launay the go-vernor, who promifed, ∙ along with the officers of his garrifon, that they would not sire upon the city unless they should be attacked. But a report was foon spread through Paris, that M. de Launay had, in a short time thereafter, admitted into the fortress a multitude of persons, and then treacherously massacred them. The cause of this piece of perfidy has never been explained. The fact itself has been denied ; but it was attested at the time by the duke of Dorset, the British ambassa-dor at the court of France. The effect of the report was, that a sudden refolution was adopted of assaulting the Bastile ; an immense and furious multitude rushed into its outer, and soon forced their way into its inner, courts, where they received and returned a severe fire for the fpace of an hour. The French guards, who were now embodied into the national guard, conducted the attack with skill and coolness : they dragged three waggons loaded with straw to the foot of the walls, and there set them on fire ; the smoke of thcse broke the aim of the garrifon, while it gave no disturbance to the more distant a(Γailants. The besieging multitude pressed the attack with incredible obstinacy and vigour for the space of four hours ; the garrifon was in confusion ; the officers served the cannon in perfon, and fired their muskets in the ranks ; the governor, in despair, thrice attempted to blow up the fortrefs. A capitulation, when at last fought, was refused to the garrifon, and an unconditional surrender took place. The governor, and M. de Losme Salbrai his major, a gentleman of distinguished humanity and honour, be-came victims of popular fury in spite of every effort that could be made for their protection ; but the French guards succeeded in procuring the safety of the garrifon. only feven prisoners were found in the Bastile.
A guard was placed in it, and the keys were sent to the celebrated M. Briffot de warville, who a few years before had inhabited one of its caverns.
The remaining part of this eventful day was fpent at Paris in a mixture of triumph and alarm. In the pocket of the governor of the Bastile a letter was found, encouraging him to resistance by the promise of speedy succours, written by M. de Fleffelles, the prevot de marchands, or chief city magistrate, who had pretended to be a most zealous patriot. This piece of trea-chery was punished by instant death ; and his bloody head was carried through the city on a pole, along with, that of M. de Launay. At the approach of night
a 
body of troops advanced towards the city, at the Bar-riere d, Enfer. The new national guard hurried thither, preceded by a train of artillery, and the troops withdrew upon the first fire : barricadoes were everywhere formed, the alarm-bells were rung, and a general illumination continued during the whole of this night of confusion.
In the mean time, it was obvious that the new mini-stry were entering upon a difficult scene of action, where one false step might lead to ruin, and where their own plan of conduct ought to be maturely digest-ed. Marshall Broglio was made minister of war, the baron de Breteuil president of finance, M. de la Gale-ziere comptroller-general, M. de la Porte intendant of 
the war department, and
M. Foulon intendant of the
navy ; but
these were onIy meant
to act
as official men, >under the Count d’ Artois, and the other leaders of the aristocracy. To these leaders there did not even remain a choice of difficulties ; no refource was left but that of -overawing by military power the national assembly and the capital, and of risking the desperate measure of a national bankruptcy, which the court had not formerly dared to encounter, and to avoid which it had convo-ked the states-general. No trace remains, however, of any attempt to put this criminal, but last refource, in execution. The evening after the departure of M. Neckar was spent by the court of verfailles in feasting and joy, as if a victory had been gained. The courtiers of both fexes went round among the foldiery, striving to fecure their fidelity by caresses, largesses, and every fpecies of flattering attention. The ministry not only failed to fupport the Prince de Lambesq in the post which he had been sent to occupy, but they sussered the whole of the 13th to pass in indecision, while the capital was in a state of rebellion, while an army was formally mustering within its walls, and the names of the principal nobility were put up in lifts of proscrip-tions. They received the news of the capture of the Bastile with confusion and dismay, which were increa-fed, if poffible, by information given by Marshal Broglio, that the troops refused to act against Paris or the national assembly. In this perplexity they adopted the miserable device of concealing from the king the state of public affairs ; and that unfortunate prince was thus perhaps the only person out of millions around him who remained ignorant of the convulsions in which his country was involved.
At length, at midnight, the Duke de Liancourt forced his way into the king’s apartment, and told him of the revolt of his capital, of his army, and of the surrender of the fortress of the Bastile. The Count d’ Artois, who was present, still attempted to retain the monarch under his fatal delusion ; but the Duke de Liancourt turning round, exclaimed, " As for you, Sir, yoHr life can only be saved by instant flight ; I have seen with horror your name in the bloody list of the profcribed.” Accordingly the Count, with the members of his short-lived administration and their adhe-rents, fled to the frontiers. And thus an emigration commenced, the fource of that terrible conte
It
which has covered Europe with bloodshed and mourning. This ministry had, no doubt, many difficulties to contend against ; but an accurate attention to their conduct ex-cstes a sufpicion which, while it exculpates them from many intended crimes that have been laid to their charge, at the same time does little honour to their ta-lents. It is this, that they had come into office without having formed any clear plan of conduct ; that they were men acting without decision and at random, and consequently became the sport of those events which they wanted skill and vigour to direct or controul. By their introduction into office, and their misconduct while in it, the royal authority fell prostrate before the popular party in the national assenshly. The nobles and the clergy still remained, but confounded in one assembly with the more numerous order of the
tiers état;
and no longer rallying round a throne that was too feeble to afford protection, they foon yielded to that fierce and levelling spirit of democracy that now rose around them.
But the person of the monarch was still beloved.— Early next morning the king went to the assembly, but with none of the usual folemr>ities. He " regretted the commotions of the capital, dtfavowed any knowledge of an intention against the perfons of the deputies, and intimated that he had commanded the removal of the troops.” A deep and expressive silence prevailed for a few moments ; this was succeeded by vehement and uni-versal shouts of applaufc. The king arose to depart, and instantly the whole affembly crowded around, and attended him to his palace. The queen appeared at a balcony with the dauphin in ker arms ; the music play-ed the pathetic air of
Où peut-on dtre mieux qu’au fin de sa sarndle.
The enthusiasm of loyalty communicated itself to the suriounding multitudes, and nothin"· was heard but acclamations of joy.
Οη the following day, the king declared his refolu-tion to. visit the city of Paris in person. Accordingly that prince, who never wanted personal courage, however deficient he might be in political stedfastness, set out, attended by some members of the assembly and by the militia of verfailles. He was met by the celebrated M. de la Fayette, at the head of a body of the na-tional guard, of which he had now been chosen com-mander in chief. M. Bailly, in whofe perfon the an-cient office of mayor of Paris had been revived, received the king at the gates, and delivered to him the keys. All this while no shout was heard from the crowd of innumerable spectators but that of
Vive la nation. 
The king advanced to the Hotel de ville, where the new cockade was presented to him, which he put onF  and presented himself with it at a window. At the light of this badge of patriotism an universal shout of 
Vive le Roi
burst forth from every quarter ; and he returned to verfailles amidst general triumph and applause.
Much confusion still prevailed in the capital; but there was more appearance of regularity than could have been expected at the conclufion of such important events. I his arose from a casual concurrence of circumstances. r L o conduct with ease the elections to the states-general, Paris had been divided into 60 districts, each of which had a feparate place of meeting. The people did not elect the members to the states-general ; but they chose delegates, who, under the name of elec-toιs, voted for the members. A,t the commencement of the disturbances, the electors, at the request of their fellow-citizens, assumed a temporary authority ; of which, however, they were foon weary, and as foon as poffible procured the public election of 120 perfons as municipal officers for the government of the city. The citizens having got the habit of assembling in their districts, grew fond of it : they assembled frequently, made rules-for their own government, and sent commissioners to communicate with other districts. The tumultuous nature of these meetings, and the vehemence of debate which prevailed in them, will belt be conceived from the ludicrous contrivance of one of their prefidεnts, who stationed a drummer at the back of his chair, and when the confusion and noise became altogether ungovernable, gave the signal for beating the drum, which speedily overpowered every other noise. These meetings, however, gradually ripened into clubs, in which much dexterity and intrigue were exerted.
The whole of the late ministry escaped excepting M.
Foulon. His character, it may well be imagined, was extremely unpopular ; for he is said to have asserted, that he would " make the people of Paris eat hay.” He had retired to the country, but was seized by his ■ own vassals, and brought to Paris with a bundle of hay : tied to his back. In spite of every effort made by Μ. M. Bailly and Fayette to procure him a fair trial at least, .he was carried to the
Place de Gre*υe,
and hanged at a lamp-iron by the enraged multitude. His son-sh-law M. Berthier, attempting to defend himself against a similar fate, fell, covered with wounds. Their heads were carried round on poles ; and thus the populace became habituated to the fight of blood and murder : they were even taught by popular songs to glory in such actions, and particularly by the well known song 
Ca-ira.
In consequence of an invitation from the king, M. Neckar returned to France. He was received by the assembly with great applause, and in Paris with infinite solemnity and triumph. He here, however, committed a political error that made some noise. In deploring the late excesses and murders, and taking notice of the arrcst of M. Bezenval, an officer of the Swiss guards, he requested of the electors at the Hotel de villc, in a solemn harangue, that the past should be for-gotten ; that proscriptions should cease, and a general amnesty be proclaimed. In a moment of enthusiasm this was agreed to, and the electors decreed what un-questionably exceeded their powers. The districts of Paris were instantly in commotion ; the electors alarmed, declared that they only meant that " henceforth the people would punish no man but according to law and, at the same time, to prove that they themselves were free from ambition, they formally renounced all their own powers. The assembly took up the que-stion. Mess. Lally, Tolendal, Mounier, Clermont, Tonnerre, Garat junior, and others, declared that no person ought to be arrested without a formal accusation. while Mess. Mirabcau, Robespierre, Barnave, and Gleizen, alleged, on the contrary, that the people were entitled to lay hold of any man who had public-ly appeared at the head of their enemies. The debate ended, by admitting the explanation of the electors, and by a declaration that it was the duty of the assern-bly to fee justice executed in all cafes.
The commotions and enthusiasm of the capital were fpeedily communicated to the provinces. In every quarter the people seized upon all the arms that could be found, and the military uniformly refused to act against them. Many acts of outrage were committed in Brittany, at Strashourg, in the Lionnois, and elfe-where, in which the nobility were the susserers. The mischiefs that occurred were ufually magnified at a distance ; but that very circumstance wa6 an additional evil. For example : It was stated in the National Affembly that M. de Mesmay, lord of Quincey, invited a number of patriots, among whom were the officers of a neighbouring garrifon, to a fplendid entertainment at his house, to celebrate the happy union of the three orders : That in the midst of the feast the master of the house contrived to withdraw unnoticed, and to set fire to a train previously laid, which communicated with a quantity of gunpowder in the cellars, in consequence of which the whole company, by a sudden exp!ofion, were blown into the air. It w.as found
on
inquiry, that there was not one word of truth in the whole
story. 
But before this inquiry could be made, all France had resounded with accounts of the pretended bloody tragedy; and the whole nobility of the kingdom suffer-ed in a less or greater degree, from the prejudices ex-cited by this unhappy report, the origin of which has never bcen well explained. It would be vain to state all the idle rumours to which at this time the blind credu-lity of the multitude gave currency. At one time, the Aristocrates were cutting down the green corn, at an-other time they were burying flour in common sewers, or casting loaves into the Seine. One report was no sooner proved to be false than another arose, and the whole nation was agitated by suspicion and alarm. The National Assembly were engaged in framing their cele-brated declaration of the rights of man, which was to form the basis of die new constitution, when the alarming accounts, received from all quarters, of the state of anarchy into which the kingdom was falling, obliged them suddenly to turn their attention to objects of practical neceslity. The privileged orders found them-selves become the objects of universal jealoufy and hatred; and that something must instantly be done to fave their families and property, which were menaced on every side with pcrsecution and pillage. Regarding the popular torrent as now become irresistible, to save something they resolved to sacrifice a part.
Οη the afternoon fitting of the 4th of August, the viscount de Noailles, seconded by the Duke d’Aguil-lon, opened one of the most important scenes in the French Revolution, or in the history of any conntry. These noblemen stated, that the true cause of the corn-motions which convulsed the kingdom existed in the mi-sery of the people, who groaned under the double op-pression of public contributions and of feudal serviqes. “ For three months (said M. de Noailles) the people have beheld us engaged in verbal disputes, while their own attention and their wishes are directed only to things, what is the consequence ? They are armed to reclaim their rights, and they fee no prospect of obtaining them but by force.” He therefore proposed to do justice as the shortest way of restoring tranquillity, and for that purpose to decree, that henceforth every tax should be imposed in proportion to the wealth of the contributors, and that no order of the state should be exempted from thc payment of public burdens ; that feudal claims should be redeemed at a fair valuation ; but that such claims as consisted of personal services on the part of the vassal should be abolished without com-pensation, as contrary to the imprescriptible rights of man. The extensive posseffions of the noblemen who made these proposals added much lustre to the disinte-rested facrifice which they offered. Their fpeeches were received with the most enthusiastic applauses by the Assembly and the galleries, and their proposals were decreed by acclamation without a vote. No nation is so much led by the influence of sudden emotions as the French. The patriotic contagion now spread fast through eveιy breast, and a contest of generosity ensued. The hereditary jurisdictions possessed by the nobles within their own territories were next sacvificed. All places and pensions granted by the Court were fup-presled, unless granted as the reward of merit or of actual services. The game laws, which condemned the hushandman, under severe penalties, to leave his proper-
2
ty a prey to
infinite multitudes
of animals reserved
for pastime, had always been numbered among the severe grievances of the French peasantry. These were therefore renounced, along with the exclusive rights of rabbit warrens, sisheries, and dovecotes. The fale of offices was abolished, and the fees exacted from the poor, together with the privilege of holding a plurality of livings, were relinquished by the clergy. The deputies of the
Pais d’Etat,
or privileged provinces, with the deputies of Dauphiné at their head, next came forward, and offered a surrender of their ancient privileges, re-questing that the kingdom might no longer remain parcelled out among Dauphinois, Bretons, Provençaux, &c. but that they should all form one great mafs of French citizens. They were followed by the reprefentatives of Paris, Marseilles, Lyons, Bourdeaux, Strasfeourg, &c. who requested leave to renounce all their feparate privileges as incorporations, for the fake of placing every man and every village in the nation upon a footing of equality. Thus the Assembly proceeded, till every member had exhausted his imagination upon the subject of reform. To close the whole, the Duc de Liancourt proposed that a solemn
Te Deιιm
should be performed, that a medal should be struck in commemoration of the events of that night ; and that the title of Restorer of Gallic Liberty should be bestowed upon the reigning monarch. A deputation was accordingly ap-pointed to wait upon the king, refpectfully to inform him of these decrees.
Several succeeding days were necessary to form into laws the decrees of the 4tl1 August, and commitees were appointed to make out reports for that purpose. Οηε of these reports having included the tithes and revenues of the clergy among the abuses that were to be done away, and having propofed in lieu of them to grant a "certain stipend to the different ministers of religion to be payable by the nation, the clergy attempted to make a Hand in defence of their property, and violent debates ensued. In these they were ably supported by the Abbé Sieyes : but as the clergy had formerly deferted the nobles, so they were now in their turn abandoned to their fate by the hereditary aristocracy. The popular party had long regarded the wealth of the church as an easy resource for fupplying the wants of the state.— Never was there a more complete proof of the influence of opinion over the affairs of men. The Catholic clergy of France, though poffeffed of more property than they enjoyed at the time when princes took up arms or laid them down at their command, now found so few defenders, that they were terrified into a voluntary surrender of all that they and their predeceffors had poffeffed for ages. In their overthrow, they scarcely enjoyed even the barren honour of having fallen the last of those privileged orders that so long had ruled over this ancient kingdom. They and the nobles, and the king, still possesled their former titles and nominal dignity ; but all of them were now subdued, and at the mercy of the commons of France, who speedily dis-misstd them at their pleasure.
As a short season of tranquillity in the Court and the National Assembly succeeded these great popular sacri-fices, the King laid hold
of
it as a fit opportunity for the appointment of a new ministry. They consisted of the Archbishop of vienne, the Archbishop of Bour-deaux, M. Neckar, the
Count de St
Priest,
Count de
Montmorin, the Count de
Ia Luzerne,
and the Count
de la Tour du Pin Paulin.
M.
Ncckar, as minister of finance, having stated the distressed fituation of the revenue, presented the plan of a loan of thirty millions of livres. But
M.
Mirabeau, from a spirit of rivalship, as if would feem, to M. Neckar, prevailed with the Affembly to alter and to narrow the conditions of it in such a degree that very few subscribers were found, and the loan could not be filled up. This failure involved the Assembly in a considerable degree of unpopularity; in conscquence of which they allowed M. Neckar to prescribe his own terms for the purpose of obtaining
a 
loan of eighty millions. But the happy instant of pub-lic confidence had been allowed to pass away, and this loan was never more than half filled up. Recourse was next had to patriotic contributions; and great numbers of gold rings, silver buckles, and pieces of plate, were presented to the Assembly. The Royal family themselves sent their plate to the mint, either to give counte-nance to these donations, or, as M. Neckar has since asserted, through absolute necessity, for the purpose of fupporting themselves and their family. The confusion into which the nation had been thrown by the late events had produced a suspension of the payment of all taxes. There existed, in fact, no efficient government; and if society escaped entire dissolution, it was merely in consequence of those habits of order which are produced by a state of long continued civilization. The business of government could not be transacted without money, and many vain efforts were made by the mini-stry to procure it. At length M. Neckar was driven to the desperate refource of propoiing a
compulfory loan, 
or that every individual poffeffed of property should advance to the state a sum equal to one-fourth of his an-nual income. This bold proposition was fupported by Mirabeau, and adopted by the Assembly ; but it does not appear to have ever been effectually executed.
In the mean time, the Assembly was busily occupied in framing the celebrated declaration of the
Rights os Man,
which was afterwards prefixed to the new constitution. This was followed by the discussion of a point of much delicacy and difficulty ; viz. what share of le-gislative authority the king ought to possess under the new constitution ; whether an absolute negative or
veto, 
a suspensive
veto,
or no
veto
at all ? This question opera-ted like a touchstone for trying the sentiments of eve-ry person ; and the assembly, confisting of 1200 men, was now seen to arrange itself into two violent contending factions. The debates were vehement and tumultuous, and continued for many days. As the assembly fat in public, and as multitudes of people of all descrip-tions were admitted into the galleries, and even into the body of the hall among the members, many indecent scenes took place in consequence os the interference of the spectators to applaud or censure the senti-mtfnts which were delivered. Thus the public at large became speedily interested in the discussion ; the city "of Paris took a side in oppofition to the
veto,
and the whole empire was thrown into agitation by new and speculative questions. The distinguished place which France holds among the nations of Europe rendered these singular events and discussions the object of universal attention. The contagious love of novelty spread rapidly abroad, and gave rife to that well-founded jea-lousy
on
the part
of
the monarchs
of
Europe, which
was speedily to burst forth in a bloody tempest.—In the present cafe, the people os Paris became most eager-ly interested. Rumours of plots were spread through the country, and a new storm was obviously gathering, when the question was thus got quit of. M. Mounier remarked, that the executive power could poffess no negativc against the decrees of the present assembly, which had been nominated by the nation with suprem£ powers for the express purpose of framing a constitu-tion, which was to remain binding over all orders of men. in the state ; and with regard to future legislatures, the king declared by a message, that he wished to possefe no more than a
suspenfive veto.
It is remarkable that the popular Mirabeau concluded a fpeech in favour of the absolute
veto
of the crown with thefe words, " Tlιat it would be better to live in Constantinople than in France, if laws could be made without the royal function.” This political adventurer is, however, accufed of having taken care to circulate in Paris a report that he had opposed the
veto
with all his influence ; and to give credit to the story, he is said to have quitted the assembly just before the division, that his vote might not appear on record against it.
In the debates about the
veto
the month of August was spent ; and in the beginning of September a new constitutional question was prefented to the assembly by one of its numerous committees. This was, whether the legislative body ought to consist of one or of two chambers ? Mounier, Lally, Tollendal, Clermont Tonnerre, and others, who were zealous lovers of freedom upon what were then accounted moderate principles, supported eagerly the idea of establishing two independent chambers in imitation of the Brstish constitution ; but they were deserted both by the democratic and aristocratic parties. The first of these re-garded an upper house or senate as a refuge for the o!d aristocracy, or as the cradle of a new one ; while the higher nobles and clergy feared lest such an arrange-ιnent might prevent the future re-establishment of the ancient division into three orders. Οί ιοοο members who voted, only 89 fupported the propofal for dividing the legislature into two chambers.
Soon after this, the king gave his fonction to the important decrees of the 4tl1 of August, but not with-. out some hesitation, and expreffing doubts of the wisdom of some of them in a letter to the assembly. At the fame time the
inviolability
of the person of the monarch was decreed, the indivisibility of the throne, and its hereditary descent from male to male in the reigning family.—But we shall not here attempt to enter into a detail of the various articles of the new consti-tution as connected with the circumstances under which they became the subject of debate, we shall only state those more remarkable circumstances which tend to as-certain the peculiar changes which the sentiments of the nation underwent in the progress of a revolution the most remarkable that occurs in human history.
In confequence os the debates upon the questions of the
veto
and the two chambers, the minds of parties had become much irritated. Paris wore the fome threatening afpect that it had done in the months of June and of July preceding ; and every thing feemed tending towards an important crisis. The aristocratiq party accused their antagonists of a design to excite 
¢ew insurrections j and the charge was retorted, by cir
culating a report that a plot for conveying the king
to
Metz was already ripe for execution.
From the period 0f the defection of the French, guards, who were now in the pay of the capital, the protection of the royal family had been entrusted to thes militia or national guard of Verfailles, together with the regiment of the
gardes du corps,
which was composed entirely of gentlemen. Upon the circulation of the report of the intended flight of the king, the French guards, began to wi∏ι to be restored to their ancient employment of attending his person, for the purpose of preventing any attempt of this nature. This idea was eagerly cheriihed by the capital ; and, in spite of every effort used by M. de la Fayette, the obvious appearance of approaching disturbances could not be prevented. The popular party fow the advan-tages which they would derive from placing the assem* bly and the king in thc midst of that turbulent metro-polis which had given birth to -the revolution, an<L upon the attachment of which they could most securely depend. Every encouragement was therefore given-by the most active leaders of what was now called the. 
Democratic
party to the project of establiihing the court at Paris. The ministry were under no finall degree of alarm ; and the count d’ Estaing, who commanded the national guard of Verfailles, requested the aid of an. additional regiment. The regiment of Flanders was. accordingly lent for : its arrival caufed no small degree of anxiety and every effort was instantly made, to gain over both officers and soldiers to the popular cause.
Οη the sirst of october the garde du corps, probably for the purpose of ingratiating tb.emselves with thc newly arrived regiment, and perhaps to attach them more· steadily to the royal cause, invited the officers of the regiment of Flanders to a public entertainment. Several officers of the national guard, and others of the military, were invited. Tlie entertainment was given in the opera house adjoining to the palace ; several loyal toasts were drank; but it is asserted, that when the fa-vυurite popular toεit
The Nation
was given, it was-rejected by the gardes du corps. In ordinary cafes,, such a trifling circumstance as this, or even any other of the transactions of a night of festivity,. would' justly be regarded as unworthy of notice in recording thç more remarkable events in the history of a great nation ; but such was now the singular state of affairs», that the most trivial occurrences were instruroental, by their combination, in the production of important con-sequences. The queen, having ieen from a window of the palace the gaiety which prevailed among the military, prevailed- with the king,, who-was juif returned, from huntings to visit tÉem along with herfelf and the dauphin. Their sudden appearance in. thc foloon kin-dled in an instant the ancient euthusiasra of French..-loyalty. The grenadiers of the regiment of Flanders, along with the Swifs chasseurs, had been admitted to» the defert ; and they, as well as their officers, drank, the health of the King, Queen, and Dauphin, with their swords drawn. The royal family having bowed, with po∙ liteness to the company, retired.—Οί all nations, the French are most liable to the influence of sudden im-∙ preflions: the music played the favourite air,
0 Ricard
L 
0 mon Roi ! (univers (abandonne,
" Ο
Richard !
Ο my 
king ! the world abandons thee.”
In
the eagerness
of
loyalty, the national cockade, which had been adopted by fome of the gardes du corps, was thrown aside, and white cockades were supplied as quickly as they could be made by the ladies of the court.
When thefe events were next day reported at Paris, accompanied by a multitude of exaggerations, they gave rife to the most violent alarm. The capital was at that time sussering all the horrors of famine ; and in such a fituation, the news of a feast which others have enjoyed, seldom gives much pleafure to hungry men. To the former report of an intended flight on the part of the royal family, it was now added, that a counter revolution was fpeedily to be attempted by force of arms ; and that thc present fcarcity was artificially cre-ated by the court for the purpose of reducing the peo-ple to fubmission. Their aristocratic antagonists have fince asserted, that the famine was indeed artificial ; but that it was created by a portion of the violent party in the national assembly, which was then denominated the 
Cabal,,
whose object was to excite commotions as the means of procuring an opportunity of setting the duke 
of
orleans at the head of the state, either as regent, or in some other form. To this last party Mirabeau is faid to have belonged.
For four days no notice was taken in the assembly of ■what had paffed at the entertainment given by the gardes du corps. Οη the 5th of october M. Petion mentioned it for the first time, and a violent debate enfued; during which Mirabeau rofe and exclaimed, “ Declare that the king’s perfon
alone
is sacred, and I rnyfelf will bring forward an impeachment thereby alluding to the conduct of the queen. while this debate wa3 pro-ceeding at versaillcs, thc city of Paris was in commotion. A vast multitude of women of the lowest rank, with fome men in womens clothes, had assem-bled at the
Hotel de Ville,
and were ca∏ing aloud for arms and bread. They resolved to proceed instantly to verfailles to demand bread from the king and from the national assembly. La Fayette oppυfed them in vain; for his own soldiers refufed to turn their bayonets against the women. Upon this one Stanislaus Mail-lard, who had distinguished himself at the taking of the Bastile, offered himself as a leader to the insurgents. He had the addvess to prevail with them to lay aside such arms as they had procured; and he set out for ∖er-failles about noon with as much order among his fυl-Iowers as could well be expected from such an assenp blage. Either becaufe the passion for going to Verfailles had suddenly become too infectious to be resisted, or becaufe the multitude already gone thither was now ac-counted dangerous, the mayor and municipality of Pa-ris thought fit to give υrdeιs to la Fayette instantly 
to
set out for that place at the head of the national guard.
In the mean time, Maillard approached verfailles with his tumultuous troop ; he arranged them in three divisions, and perfiiaded them to behave with tolerable decency. The king was hunting in the woods of Mendon when he was informed of the arrival of a most formidable band of women calling aloud for bread. " Alas ! (replied he) if I had it, I should not wait to be asked.” Maillard entered the assembly accompa-nied by a deputation of his followers to state the ob-ject of their journey. The assembly, to pacify them, feat
a
deputation of their own number along with them to
lay their complaints before the king. His majesty recei-ved the whole with great politeness, and readily agreed to go into any measures for the fupply of the capital that could be suggested. The report of this behaviour had fuch an effect upon the multitude collected around the palace, that they began to difperse ; but they were speedily fucceeded by another croud not lefs numerous. A sudden refolution of flight seems now to have been proposed by the court ; for the king’s carriages were brought to the gate of the palace which communicatee with the orangry : but the ħational guard of Verfailleβ refused to allow them to pass, and the king himself refufed to remove, or to allow any blood to be shed in his cause.
La Fayette with his army at length arrived about 10 o’clock at night, and found the assembly in a very unpleasant situation. Their hall and galleries were crowded by the Parifian fish-women and others of the mob, who, at eveιy instant, interrupted the debates. La Fayette waited upon the king, and informed him of the proceedings of the day, planted guards in every quarter ; and after a scanty banquet had been procured for the multitude, he prevailed with the assembly to clofe their fitting for the night. In this last part of his conduct M. la Fayette has been much cenfured, and probably not without reason ; for it could scarcely be expected that such a night would be spent in peace by the immense assemblage of turbulent characters that were now brought together. All was quiet, however, till about fix in the morning of the 6th, when a great number of women anddefperate persons rushed forward to the palace, and attempted to force their way into it. Two of the gardes du corps were killed ; the croud ascend¢d the stair-case leading to the queen’s apartment, but were bravely resisted by M. Miemandre a sentinel, who gave the alarm, and defended his poll till he fell covered with wounds, of which, however, he afterwards fortunately recovered. The ruffians, reeking with his blood, rushed into the chamber of the queen, and pierced with bayonets and poniards the bed whence this
persecuted woman had but juft time to fly almost naked, and, through ways unknown to the murderers, had esca-ped to seek refuge at the feet of the king, who w as al-ready alarmed, and had gone to feek her.
Ί he tumult became more violent every moment, and fudden death feemed to threaten the royal family ; but la Fayette was by this time at the head of his troops, whom he befecched earnestly to save the gardes du corps from maffacre. In this he was succefsful ; some that had been taken prisoners were surrounded by the grenadiers of the French guards who protected them, and the retreat of the whole corps was easily secured. The croud was fpeedisy driven from the different quar-ters of the palace, which they were already beginning to pillage; and the royal family ventured to show them-felves at a balcony. A few voices now exclaimed* 
Le Roi à Paris,
" the King to Paris.” Ιhe shout be-came general ; and the king, after consulting with la Fayette, declared that he had no objection to take up his residence at Paris, provided he was accompanied by the queen and his children, when the proposal was reported to the assembly, the popular leaders expressed much satissaction. Ι'hey ordered a deputation of 100 members to attend the king thither; they voted the national assembly inseparable from the king. His majesty
sct out at two
o’clock
a
prifoner
in the custody of the
mob. Two gentlemen were felected from his body guard, and, with all the parade
of
an execution, beheaded in the court of his palace. Their heads were stuck upon fpears, and led the procession ; whilst the royal captives who followed in the train, and beheld this fpectacle, were conducted fυ slowly, that a short journey of twelve miles was protracted to
fix
hours. The king, the queen, and their children, were lodged in the old palace of the Louvre, while Monsieur went to reside at the Luxemburg. The city was illumina-ted, and the evening fpent in triumph by the Pari-sians.
The removal of the king to Paris was regarded as
a
triumph by the popular party. The higher order of nobles considered it as completely ruinous to their hopes ; and even many men of talents, such as Mounier and Lally Tollendal, whom we cannot avoid regarding as friends to the popular cause in its out-set, now re-gardcd every profpect of attaining a happy conflit ution-al freedom as at an end, as the national reprefentatives muff be for ever expυfed to the insults, and overawed by the influ<gιce, of a turbulent capital. Many members of the affembly took refuge in foreign countries, and used every effort to excite the other nations of Europe to liostility against France. As the duke of odeans had been regarded as a chief agent in promoting the late disturbances, the marquis de la Fayette waited upon him, and insisted upon his leaving the kingdom for a time. The duke was overawed, and, on pretence of public business, went to England, where he remained for several months.
Οη the i gth of october, the National Assembly held its first session in Paris. The King was clofely guarded in his own palace ; and no apparent opposition now stood in the way to prevent the popular party from giving to their country such a constitution as they might judge expedient. Much, however, was yet to be done, and many difficulties remained, resulting from the habits of men educated under a very different order of things. Two days after the Affembly came to Paris, a baker was publicly.executed by the mob, upon a false accusation of having concealed a quantity of bread.— while the Affembly was at a distance, events of this nature had been little attended to, and the leading party avoided attempting to check these ebullitions of popular violence, from which they had derived fo much advantage ; but that party was now all-powerful, and so flagrant an offence committed against the law was regarded as an insnlt upon the sovereignty of the National Affembly. Two leaders of the mob were therefore tried and publicly executed, and a severe law was paffed, of the nature of the British riot act, authorising the magistrates to act by military force against any multitude of persons that should refuse to disperse. Thus the peace of the capital was secured for several months; but in the country at large no small degree of anxiety and trouble still subsisted. The same sufpicious temper which had prevailed at Paris agitated the provinces with the dread of plots and monopolies os grain. Add to this, that the noblesse in the country were by no means satissied with the liberality with which their reprefentatives had on the 4th of August voted away their privileges and their property. This produced violent jealoufies between the peasants and their lords,
and gradually conveyed to every corner of the kingdom the political ferment which had commenced at Paris.
The National Assembly being now, however, in to-lerable security, proceeded in the arduous attempt of forming
a
free constitution for the great empire of France. The Abbé Sieyes presented a plan for dividing the kingdom into 83
departments,
of about 324 fquare leagues, and of each department into feve-ral
difiricts,
and each district was subdivided into
cantons 
of four square leagues in extent. Thus the whole of the ancient divisions of the kingdom into governments, generalities, and bailiewicks, was in an instant obliterated. An attempt was also made to Amplify in an equal degree the relative situation of individuals in civil life, by a decree which put an end to all distinction of orders and immunities, so far as any privilege whatever was concerned. At the same time, a bold and most im-portant measure was adopted, which has lince proved the organ of those terrible efforts which France has been enabled to make against the reft of Europe. This was the consiscation of the whole of the lands belonging to the church, for the purpose of supplying the exigencies of the state. In this transaction, all regard to justice was thrown aside. The lands of the church were as certainly the property of the then posseisors of them as any entailed estate among us is the property of him who occupies it. The state may have had a right to appropriate to itself the church lands upon the death of the incumbents ; but it might with equal justice, and perhaps greater propriety, have seized the enormous re-venues of the Duke of Qrleans, as have confifcated
a 
single acre belonging to the most ufelefs abbot without his own consent. This nefarious meafure was pro--posed by the bishop of Autun, M. Tallegrand Peri-gord, a man of no religion, who had been promoted to the bench in a most irregular manner to serve this very purpose. The mode in which this property was to be expended was by issuing affiguments
(affignats)
upon it; which assignments were to be received by the state for the payment of taxes, or for the purchase of church lands when set up to sale. A provision was at the same time made for the national clergy, who were for the future to be paid by the state. Qn the day following that on which this important measure was adopted, a decree was paffed, suspending the parliaments of the kingdom from the exercise of their functions.
Decrees, in which the interests of so vast a multitude of individuals were involved, could not be carried into effect without much murmuring and opposition. Thc parliaments, in particular, began to exert themselves with vigour, and, by protests and other publications, attempted to invalidate the decrees of the Assembly as illegal ; but these privileged bodies, who had often been accustomed to contend with fome succefs against the despotic administration of their country, and
011 
that account had been for ages the objects of public ap-plause, now found themfelves utterly forfaken, and unable to resist the mandate of a popular Assembly. After a few fruitless struggles, they were all of them under the necessity of submitting to their fate.
Nothing remarkable now .occurred for some time.— The Assembly proceeded to organize the kingdom by the establishment
of
municipalities, and by reforming the jurisprudence of thc country. It is to bc obferved, 
however, that when the parliament of Paris was abo-
Iished, the
Châtelet, being the Γecond court in that city, was retained for the purpose of trying those per-fons who had become most obnoxious by their attach-ment to the royal cause. This court had the lpirit to acquit the Baron de Bezenval, Marshal Broglio, and the Prince de Lambesq. But having incurred much popular odium c∙n this account, they were guilty of the unworthy meanness of condemning to death the Marquis de Favres, for a pretended conspiracy
(of
which no tolerable proof was ever brought) to maffacre La Fayette, Bailly, and Neckar, and to convey the King to Peronne.
During the whole of this winter the King had been very strictly watched by numerous guards placed around his palace, infomuch that the other nations of Europe considered him as in a state of captivity. To do away this impreffion, if poffible, and to make their king appear a voluntary agent in the measures that had lately been adopted, was now regarded as a matter of some importance. Every effort was therefore made to prevail with him to come to the Affembly suddenly, and, as it were, of his own voluntary motion, there to declare his adherence to the meafures which had lately been adopted. For some time he refilled this propo-sal ; but at length, on the 4tl1 of February, he did suddenly appear in the National Affembly, where he complained of the attempts that had been made to shake the new constitution. He declared his wish " that it should be universally known that the monarch and the reprefentatives of the nation were united, and their wishes were the fame ; that he would defend the constitutional liberty of the state; that, in conjunction with the Queen, he would early form the sentiments of his foil fυι that new order of things which the circumstan-ces of the empire had introduced.” This declaration dispirited the aristocratic party in no small degree, and increased that unhappy tendency of looking for aid from foreign countries which they had always been too apt to indulge.
Ο11 the 13th of February, monastic estabhshments were suppreffed, and their lands consiscated ; but the present friars and nuns were allowed penstons for their subststenee, and to continue the observance of their mo-nastic vows, if they thought fit. we may observe here, that, in consequence of the evacuation of the monaste-ries, it is probable that about this time the
Breton
committee began to affume the appellation of the
(facobiη Club,
from the hall belonging to the Jacobin friars at Paris, in which their meetings were now held.
An event occurred at this time which tended in no small degree to increafe the odium under which the old government already laboured. This was the publication of the
Red Book,
or-lift of pensions and donations granted by the crown. In consequence of the most preffing inftances, it had been communicated by M. Neckar to a committee of the Affembly, after many intreaties, and the most solemn promises of secrecy. ft astorded, however, too striking an advantage to thc popular party not to be made use of, and in a few days M. Neckar, to his no small surprise, saw this register publicly fold by every bookseller in Paris. He ought not, indeed, to have been surprised ; and the giving up of this lift is one of the many proofs which the transactions of that period afford of his great unfitness for the office which 
he held, with much indignation, however, he de
manded why the committee had published it without the permission of the Affembly or the King ? But he was told by the committee, that " as to the Affembly, they were sufe of its approbation ; and as to the King, they were not his reprefentatives.” To give an idea of ~ħ the effect of this publication, it is only necessiiry to re-P? mark, that, under the short administration of M. Ca-lonne, thc two brothers of the King had received from the public treasury, independent of their legitimate in-come, nearly two millions steiling, and that L. 600,000 had been granted to an individual, becauie he was the liushand of Madame de Polignac. M. Neckar’s opposition to this publication tended in no small degree to injure his popularity, and the reft of the ministry began to lofe the confidence of the public. Indeed, at this time, fertile causes of alarm prevailed on all sides. T<he clergy were attempting to revive in the provinces the ancient animosities between the Roman Catholics and the Protεftants, ascribing the late decrees of the Affembly to the latter. The German Princes who pos-stffed property in the north of France were complaining loudly of the violation os their rights by the aboli-tiυn of the feudal system, although the National Affembly had voted to them a compensation. The most melancholy intelligence was received from their colonies in the well Indies. In regulating these, the Affembly had not recognized the right of the free negroes to enjoy the fame privileges with other citizens ; at the fame time, they did not go the length of denying these privileges. This uncertain conduct produced infinite calamities. The whites contended with those commonly called
people os colour.
These again sometimes Hood in opposition to the free negroes, or to the siaves ; and hence it sometimes happened that no less than three ho-stile affemblies were held at the fame time in the fame colony, which made war upon each other with the most
inveterate fury. Each party found protectors in the National Affembly of the parent state. Those who favoured or opposed the existence of distinctions at home, in general followed out the fame principle with regard to the colonies.
Οη the 14th of May, M. de Montmorency communicated to the National Affembly the preparations for war in which England and Spain were engaged. This brought forward the constitutional question, “ who ought to poffess the power of declaring peace and war ? The Count Clermont Tonnerre, Meffrs, <de Serent,
VÎ-
rieu, and Dupont, supported the royal prerogative ; while on the other fide, the exclusive right of the legisia-tive body to exercise this important prerogative was supported by Mestrs d’Aiguillon, Garatjun. Freteau, Jellot, Charles Lameth, Sillery, Pction, Robespierre, &c. M. Petion proposed a decree “ that the French nation renounced for ever all idea of conquest, and confined itself entirely to defensive war;” which was paffed with universal acclamation. The Count de Mirabeau at length successfully proposed that peace and war should. be declared by the king and the legislative body in conjunction ; and the decree that was paffed on the subject is a strange farrago of contradictions and absurdities. It enjoined the King· to " guard the Rate from external attacks.” But how could this be done, without repelling any attack that might be made upon it ? This, however, he could not do, without previously informing the National Affembly j ⅛nd if th»t body chanced.
not to he fitting at
the time, he was
bound to let the enemy advance without opposition till he had convened 
his orators, dispcrsed over
24,000 square leagues, and listened to their metaphysical quibbles in Paris.
On the 19th June, a very singular farce was acted in the Assembly. A Prussian refugee, who called himself Anacharsis Clouts, and
who
was struggling hard
to 
bring himself into public notice, on an evening fitting (which, it is to be observed, was generally ill attended by the perfons of the highest rank), introduced to the Assembly a number of persons dreffed in the different habits of all the different .countries that could he thought of. In a formal harangue, he told the Assembly that lie was come, as the
orator os the human race,
at the head of the reprefentatives of all nations, to congratulate them upon the formation ©f their new constitution. He was answered by the President with abundance of solemnity, and retired with his motley groupe. This fantastical piece of folly, which in any other country than France would scarcely, perhaps, have excited a smile, was treated by the Assembly in a ferions light. Alexander Lameth proposed, that the figures of different nations exhibited in chains at the feet of Louis XIV. should be dellroyed as an insult upon mankind. 
M.
Lamhel, a lawyer, at this moment propofed the 
abolition os all hereditary titles.
He was iιιpported by La Fayette, St Fargeau, and the viscount de Noailles. The decree was paffed, along with another suppressing all armorial bearings. It is our intention at present rather to state facts than to hazard any political opinion concerning the wisdom or folly of the transactions which we record. It may here, however, be remarked, that no part of the proceedings of the French National Assembly was received by persons of rank upon the Continent of Europe with so much indignation as this.— 'I'he feudal system had been overturned, and the property of the church wrested from it, with little comparative notice ; but when those nominal distinctions were attacked which antiquity had sanctioned, and personal vanity rendered dear, the surrounding nations were instantly alarmed, and beheld with terror the levelling precedent, we may likewise add, that no part of their proceedings was more inimical to rational and practical freedom. To preferve a perfect equality of ranks is impoffible. In a commercial nation, industry will procure wealth, and wealth will every where procure dependents. Now nothing more contributes to keep within some tolerable bounds the insolence of newly acquired wealth, than the rank attached to birth and nobility, which time and prejudice have conspired to make respectable. It is not a little remarkable, that of all the King’s ministers, Neckar alone, a plebeian, a republican, born and bred in a democracy, advised his Majesty to refuse his affent to this fooliih decree, as a violent but useless encroachment upon the prejudices of a powerful order of the state.
In the mean time, the capital was entirely engrossed by hurry and bustle. M. Bailly had proposed a plan for commemorating the anniversary of the taking of the Bastile. It was adopted, becaufe it flattered the vanity of the people, by presenting them with a fplendid fpectacle in commemoration of their own exertions. —The army had been much disorganized ; and it was resolved to attempt to unite all its branches, as well as She whole departments of the statc, ia onc common at-
tachment to
the new order of things, by collecting
into
one place deputations, for the purpose of swearing· fidelity to the new conststution. In the middle of the Champ de Mars an altar was erected, at which the civic oath, as it was called, was to be taken. Around the akar an amphitheatre was thrown
up
capable of containing
400,000
spectators;
2000
workmen were employed in this operation ; and the people of Paris, fear
ing
left die plan might not be completed, affiisted
ia 
the labour. All ranks of persons, thc nobles, clergy, and even ladies, with the eagerness for novelty so pe-culiar to that people, united their efforts. Crowds of foreigners as well as natives hurried to the capital to be present at this solemnsty, which was called the
Confederation.
The long-expected 14th of July at length arrived. At fix o’clock in the morning the prυceffion was aπanged on the Boulevards, and consisted of the electors of the city of Paris, the reprefentatives of the commons, the administrators of the municipality, a bat-talion of children, with
a
standard, infcribed " The hopes -of the nation deputies from the troops of France wherever quartered, and of every order, along with deputies from all the departments ; to these were added immenfe detachments of the military, and of the nat ional guards, along with an almost infinite multitude os drums, trumpets, and musical instruments. The pro-ceffion was extremely fplendid, as every district had its peculiar decorations. The national affembly paffed through a grand triumphal arch, and the king and queen, attended by the foreign ministers, were placed in a superb box. After a solemn invocation to God, the King approached the altar, and, amidst the deepest silence, took the following oath : " I the King of the French do swear to the nation, that I will employ the whole power delegated to me by the constitutional law of the state, to maintain the constitution, and enforce the execution of the law.” The president of the national affembly then went up to the altar, and took the civic oath, “ I swear to be faithful to the nation, the law, and the king ; and to maintain with all my powers the constitution decreed by the national affembly, and accepted by the king.” Every member of the affembly handing up, said, “ That I fwear.” La Fayette then advancing, took the oath for himfclf ; the other deputies of the national guards pronouncing after him, " That I swear and these words were solemnly pronounced byevery individual of this immenfe affembly.
Te Deum
was then fung. The performance was sublime beyond the powers of defcriptiυn. Never perhaps be-fore was there hιch an orchestra, or such an audience : their numbers baffled the eye to reckon, and their shouts in full chorus rent the skies. It is impoffible to enumerate ail the means which were employed to add fpleh-dυr to this day. It ended with a general illumination, and no accident disturbed the public tranquillity.
The assembly now proceeded in the formation of the constitution with considerable tranquillity; which, however, was disturbed by au unhappy event at Nancy. Moil of the officers of the army were unfriendly to the late revolution, and every means had been employed by them to difgust the loldiers with it. At Nancy., in particular, neceffaries had been <lenied them, and their pay was kept back, under pretence that this was the will of thc national assembly. Driven to despair, the regiments in garrifon threw off their allegiance, and de-
manded loudly the regimental
accounts. They seized
at the fame time the military chest, and sent a deputa-tion to state their case at Paris to the national assembly. But the officers were before-hand, and prepoffessed the minister of war against them ; upon whose representation a decree was passed, authorising the commander in chief of the province, M. Bouille, to reduce the insurgents by force. This was no sooner known, than the national guard of Nancy affembled, and sent
a
deputation to give a fair statement of facts. But Bouille, without waiting the refult of an explanation, hastened to Nancy at. the head of all the troops he could sudden-
Iv
collect ; and having fallen upon the regiments of Chateauvieux and Mestre de Camp, after putting an immense multitude to the sword, he took 4.00 prisoners.
The King’s regiment was prevented from acting against Bouille by thc intrepidity of a young officer of tlie name
Desst/es,
who, however, died of the wounds w hich he received on the occasion. Tile news of these events filled Paris with indignation. The assembly afterwards reverscd its own decrees against thc insnrgents at Nancy. Public honours were decreed to the memory of Deffillcs ; but Bouille could not be punished, because he had only acted in obedience to authority.
M. Neckar’s popularity had been gradually declining, as he was unwilling to go all the lengths that the ruling party wished. He gave in his resignation on the 4th of September, and speedily thereafter left the kingdom. He was regretted by no party. He was regarded, on the one side, as having conducted the kingdom to its ruin, by the conceffions which he originally advised the king to make in favour of the
tiers etat ; 
while he was despised by the opposite party as a lukewarm politician, of narrow views, and a feeble mind. He departed, however, with thé unblemished reputation of strict integrity. M. Neckar does not seem to have penetrated deeply into the characters of men, or to have had any conception of the effects of that terrible and restless energy which is called forth in a nation which attempts to make important changes in its ancient manners and government. Having no conception of the important era which was about to open upon that country of which he was the minister, lie was sar from being qualified to direct or controul it amidst the convulsions which it was destined to encounter. Unable to brook thc loss of his popularity, he peevishly retired to Swisserland, where he published a work, which shows to the conviction of every unprejudiced reader the integrity of the French king, and the wicked projects of the leading democrates, whom he himself had armed with power.
The remaining part of tin’s year was occupied in attempts to introduce some degree of subordination into the navy of France, which had been much disorganized, and in farther regulating the affairs of the clergy. It was now declared, that such clergymen as should not take the foliowing oath, which had been prescribed some months before, shsuld be considered as ejected from their benefices : " To watch carefully over the faithful in the parish or diocese which was entrusted to 
Isis
care ; to be faithsul to the nation, the law, and the king ; and to maintain to the utmost of his power the new constitution of France, and particularly the decrees 
relative to
thc civil
constitution os the clergy.” This 
decree rendered the situation of conscientious
men etu 
tremely perplexing ; especialIy as the pope testisied in marked terms his disapprobation of the oath. The people were reduced to the dilemma of dhoosing be-tween their new political and their old religious preju-dsces, and the result was extremely unfavourable to the interest of religion.
The assembly commenced the new year with a decree, announcing the termination of its session, which was to take place as foon as it should have finished the discuf· lion of a list of constitutioual articles. In the mean time, on the side of Germany, Spain, Italy, and Savoy, hostile appearances began to be exhibited, and bodies of troops advanced around the French frontier.
The 
Emperor Leopold was, however, too cautious to announce his intentions ; and the King foon communica-ted a letter from him, containing protestations of amicable dispositions, but addin<r, that " the innovations occasioned by the decrees of the 4th of August ought to bc done away.” The King treated this merely a» an official measure on the part of the Emperor, that he might not appear to renounce the claims of certain German princes connected with Lorraine and Alsace. But the assembly expressed some alarm, and voted an augmentation of the national force. About this period. several new efforts were made by the disaffected clergy in various parts of the kingdom to excite disturbances, which it is unnecessary to mention in detail. On the 20th of February the public attention was roused by a circumstance that in any other state of affairs would have been accounted unimportant. The King announced to the assembly, that his aunts, the daughters of Louis
XV. 
had that morning left Paris ; but as hc did not appre-hend that the existing laws laid them under any restraint in this respect, he had not opposed their departure. Aster some debate,, the assembly agreed that the King had judged well ; and thesc princesses were left to pursue their journey to Rome, which they reached after some delays occasioned by the jealousy of certain municipalities through which they passed. Thus the-kingdom was gradually deserted by every branch of the royal family, excepting the King and his eldest brother Monsieur. s he assembly, however, continued its Ia-bours with considerable quietnesa. In the end' of the month of March died the celebrated M. de Mirabeau, at the age of 42 years; a man whose integrity has for many good reasons been much suspected, but whose political address- and intrepidity, and whose splendid powers of eloquence, have been seldom equalled. He re-ceived from his countrymen at his death marks of re-
spect unparalleled in modern history. During his short illness, his door was bcsieged by anxious citizens. A-mourning of eight days was dccreed by the assembIy, and also a grand proceffion, which, was attendcd by all the public functionaries. He was the first who"was· interred in the new magnificent Pantheon, consecrated to the reception of the remains of illustrious men. But his ashes were afterwards removed, in consequence of very clear proofs that he had not been incorruptible by money.
During the whole of thisspring, much fear was en-tertained that some attempts at a counter revolution were about to be made. The emigrant army assembled on the borders of Alsace was reviewed by the prince of Condé. Their uniform was· black, faced with yellow,
with a
death’s head, surrounded by
a laurel wreath
on one cuff, and a sword on the other ; with the motto, " Conquer or die.” The king was also surrounded by crowds
of
nonjuring priests and other diffassected persons. Thus, that popular jealousy which in every pe-riod of the revolution has strikingly marked the French character, was kept on the alarm. On the 18th of A-pril, therefore, when the royal Family was preparing to go to St Cloud to pafs some days, a report was instant-ly spread that the king was about to fly from the country. The carriages were immediately surrounded by •people. La Fayette drew out the national guard, but they refused to act.
" WC
know (exclaimed they) that we are violating the laws, but the safety of our country is the sirst law.” The King instantly went to the affembly, and with much spirit complained of the insult. He was answered respectsully by the president, and continued bis journey. As the royal family had enjoyed a considerable degree of freedom for some time past, which was demonstrated by the unsuccessful oppo-sition made to this journey—the present opportunity was embraced for intimating to foreign courts his ac-ceptance of the constitution ; and ali obnoxious persons were difmissed from about his person. The breach of diseipline on the part of the national guard on this occasion was so much resented by La Fayette, that he resigned his command. Paris was thrown into consternation ; and it was not till after the most universal solicitation that he was prevailed upon to refume his
office.
About this time M. de Bouille, to whom the protection of the frontiers was entrusted, was employing, as it is now said, every means in his power to render the country defencelefs. The garrisons were left unprovided ; diffunion was spread among the national troops; they were removed srom the frontiers, and their place was occupied by foreigners, wherever it could be done. The emigrants abroad, and their friends at home, were lying in wait for an opportunity of revolt ;—when suddenly, on the 2 ist of June, it was announced from the Thuilleries, that the king, the queen, the dauphin, with monsieur and madame, had quitted the palace and the capital, without leaving any information of thcir inten-tion or their route. The emotion excited by this news among the multitude was a mixture of consternation and rage. The national affembly, however, acted with much coolness. They instantly took upon themselves the government, and decreed their fittings permanent. They sent meffengers, at the same time, in all directions, to attempt to lay hold of the fugitives. These had taken different routs. Monsieur and madame arrived sasely at Brussels on the 23d. The king, queen, and their children, when they came to a considerable distance from the capital, were furnished by Bouille with a guard of dragoons, under pretencc of protecting treasure for the pay of the troops. At the distance of 156 miles, and when only a few leagues from the frontiers, they were arrested at St Menehould by the postmaster, M. Drouet, formerly a dragoon in the regiment of Condé. At half past feven o’clock in the evening the carriages stopt to change horses at his house ; he thought he recollected the queen, and ima-gined that the king’s face resembled the impreffions stamped upon affignats. The eseort of dragoons in-
creased the suspicion. He suffered them to depait at
U o'clock without notice; hut taking a çmnpmiitm
with him, he went by a shorter road to Varenneai with the affistance os the postmaster there he gave the alarm, and overturned a carriage on the bridge, which detained the royal travellers till the national guard of the place had assembled, and the arrest was effected without bloodshed. They were brought back to Pa-ris by a deputation from the assembly. At his depar-ture, the king had imprudently left behind him a me-morial, in which he declared, that he never had thought any sacrifice too great for the restoration of order ; but that the destruction of the kingdom, and the triumph of anarchy, being the only reward of all his efforts, he thought it necessary to depart from it. He then takes a review of the faults of the new constitution, the grievances he has suffered ; and protests against every thing that he had been compelled to do during his cap-tivity.
Different parties were very differently affected by this ill-conducted and unfortunate flight of the King. A small republican party had already begun to appear, and during the king’s absence, attempts were made to induce the public at large to consider the royal au-thority as no neceffary part of a free constitution. But the minds of men were by no means prepared for the re-ception of this new doctrine. The idea, however, ha· ving been thus publicly proposed, left some impreffions, which in time contributed to give rise to important events. By sar the greater number of leading men, however, were at present convinced, that it was impoffible to conduct a great empire like France, well and pro-sperously, without the assistance of an hereditary chief. They therefore determined to pass over the affair with as much silence as poffible, and to haften the period when their new constitution should be complete. But there is reason to believe, that this journey was at the long-run highly instrumental in producing very fatal effects to tbe perfonal safety os the monarch.
His flight seemed a signal for emigration. Many of the aristocratic party sent in resignations of their feats in the national assembly. Troops were levied on the frontiers in the King’s name ; who took care, however, to disavow any connection with such a procedure. Bouille emigrated, and afterwards sent to the assembly a furious threatening letter : " You shall answer (fays he) sor the lives of the king and of the queen to all the monarchs of the universe. Touch but a single hair of their heads, and not one stone shall be left upon ano-ther in Paris. I know the roads. I will conduct the foreign armies. This letter is but the forerunner of the manifesto of the sovereigns of Europe.”
A considerable calm throughout France followed these events, and it might be regarded as in a state of tranquillity. It contained, indeed, parties entertaining much animosity against each other, and many citizens had withdrawn to foreign countries ; but the peace was not broken, and moderate men hoped that much prosperity would follow from the late agitations. But this calm was delusive ; and in the midst of it those projects were formed which were afterwards to prove so fatal to the peace of France and of Europe. Towards the close of this summer, a convention took place at Pilnitz in Saxony between the emperor Leopold and the king of Pruffia. Its object was not known at the time, but it 
gradually came into view, and is now by many under-
stood to have been intended for the purpose os concluding a league for the invasion of France, the new-modelling of its government, and the partition of fome of its fair-est provinces. The following paper has been repeated-ly published as the copy of a treaty concluded and signed at Pavia, and is generally understood to have been identical with, and therefore known by, the name of the
Treaty of Pilnitz.
we are far from vouching for its authenticity. It may have been fabricated by the French assembly, to unite all parties in the nation against the foreign powers which threatened to invade them. But in stating the events of this revolution, it is perhaps still more necessary, for the purpose of rendering the actions of men comprehensible, to give an account of what was at the time
believed
to have occurred, than it now is to ascertain what was actually true.
Partition Treaty between the Courts in Concert, concluded and figned at Pavia, in the Month os July
1791.
His majesty the emperor will take all that LouisXIV. conquered in the Austrian Netherlands, will give them to his serene highness the elector Palatine ; so that these new posseffions, added to the Palatinate, may here-after have the name of
Aufirafia.
His majesty will preserve for ever the property and posseffion of Bavaria, to make in future an indivisible mass with the domains and hereditary poffeffions of the house of Aussria.
Her serenc highness the archduchess Maria Christina shall be, conjointly with his ferene highness her ne-phew the archduke Charles, put into hereditary posses-sion of the duchy of Lorraine.
Alsace shall be reftored to the empire ; and the bishop of Strashourg, as well as the chapter, shall recover their ancient privileges, and the ecclesiastical sovereigns of Germany shall do the same.
If the Swiss Cantons conscnt to accede to the coalition, it may be proposed to them to annex to the Hel-vetic league the bishopric of Porentrui, the defiles of Franche Comté, and even those of Tyrol, with the neighbouring bailiwicks, as well as the territory of Ver-soy, which intersccts the Pays de Vaud.
Should his majesty the king of Sardinia fubscribe to the coalition, La Bresse, Le Bugey, and the Pays de Gex, usurped by France from Savoy, shall be restored to him.
In case his Sardinian majesty can make a grand di-version, he shall be sussered to take Dauphiné, to belong to him for ever as the nearest descendant of the ancient dauphins.
His majesty the king of Spain shall have Rouffillon and Bearn, with the issand of Corssca; and he shall have the French part of the issand of St Domingo.
Her majesty the empress of all the Ruffias shall take upon hersclf the invasson of Poland, and at the same time retain Kaminiech, with that part of Padolia which borders on Moldavia.
His majesty the emperor shall oblige the Port£ to give up Chocsim, as well as the small forts of Servia, and tliofe on the river Lurna.
His majesty tlie king of Pruffia, by means of the above-mentioned invasion of the empress os all the Rusc fias into Poland, shall make an acquisition os Thorn and Dantzic, and there unite the Palatinate on the east 
to
the confines os Silesia.
His majesty the king of Pruffia shall besides acquire Lusace ; and hie screne highness the elector os Saxony shall in exchange receive the rest os Poland, and oc-cupy the throne as hereditary sovereign.
. His majesty the present king of’Poland shall abdicate the throne on receiving
a
suitable annuity.
His royal highness the elector os Saxony shall give his daughter in marriage to his serene highness the youngest son of his royal highness the grand duke of all the Ruffias, who will be the father of the race of the hereditary kings of Poland and Lithuania. (Signed) Leopold. Prince Nassau. CountFloriba Blan-ca. Bischoffswerder.
In the mean time, the national assembly was hassen-ing fast to the completion of the new constitution. It was sinished on the 3d of September, and prefented to the king. It begins with the following declaration of the rights of a man and a citizen, and thereafter foliow the different branches; the chief of which are here translated.
I.    All men are born, and remain, free and equal in rights : social distinctions cannot be founded but on common utility.
II.    The end of all political associations is the pre-servation of the natural and imprescriptihle rights of man : thesc rights are liberty, property, security, and resistance against oppression.
III.    The principle of
sovereignty
resides essentially in the nation :
no body of men,
no
individual,
can exer* cise an authority that does not emanate expressly from that fource.
IV.    
Liberty
consists in the power of doing every thing except that which is hurtful to another : hence the exercife of the natural rights of every man has no other bounds than thosc that are necessary to ensure to the other members of society the enjoyment of the same rights : those bounds can be determined by the law only.
V.    The law has a right to forbid thosc actions alone that are hurtful to society. whatever is not forbid-den by the law, cannot be hindered ; and no person can be constrained to do that which the law ordaineth not.
VI.    The law is the expreffion of the general will : all the citizens have a right to concur personally, or by their representatives, to the formation os the law : it ought to be the same for all, whether it protect, or whether it punish. All citizens being equal in the eye of the law, are equally admiffible to dignities, places, and public offices, according to their capacity, and without any other distinction but that of their virtue and their talents.
VII.    No man can be accuscd, arrested, or detained, except in cafes determined by the law, and according to the forms which the law hath prescribed. Thosc who folicit, dispatch, execute, or cause to be executed, arbitrary orders, ought to be pnnished ; but every citi-zen that is summoned or seized in virtue of the law, ought to obey instantly—he becomes culpable by resistance.
VIII.    The law ought to establish such punishments only as are strictly and evidently necessary ; and no person can be punished but in virtue of a law esta-blished and promulgated prior to the offence, and le-gally applied.
IN. Evcry man being presumed innocent till such
time as he has becn declared guilty, if it shall be deem-ed abfolutely neceffary to arrest a man, every kind of rigour employed, not necessary to secure his person, ought to be severely repreffed by the law.
X.    No perfon shall be molested for his opinions, even such as are religious, provided tliat tlie manifestation of those opinions does not disturb tlie public order esta-blished by the law.
XI.    The free communication of thought, and of opinion, is one of the most precious rights os man. Every citizen, therefore, may freely speak, write, and publish, his sentiments ; subject, however, to answer for the abuse of that liberty, in cafes determined by the law.
XII.    The guarantee of the Rights of Man and Ci-tizens, involves a neceffity of
public force :
this force is then instituted for the advantage of all, and not for the particular utility of tliofe to whom it is confided.
XIII.    For the maintenance of public force, and for tlie expences of administration, a common contribution is indispensably necessary : this contribution should be equally divided amongst all the citizens, in proportion to their abilities.
XIV.    Every citizen lias a right, by himself, or by his representatives, to decide concerning the neceffity of the public contribution ; to consent to it freely ; to look after the employment of it ; to determine the quantity, the distribution, the collection, and duration.
XV.    Tlie society has a right to demand from every public agent an account of his administration.
XVI.    Every society, in which the guarantee of rights is not affured, nor the separation of powers deter-mined, lias
no conßitution.
XVII.    Property being a right inviolable and sacred, no person can be deprived of it, except when the pub-lic neceffity, legally ascertained, shall evidently require it, and on condition of a just and previous·indemnisica-tion.
The constitution guarantees, as natural and civil
rights,
1.    That all citizens are admiffible to places and employments without any distinction, but that of ability and virtue.
2.    That all contributions shall be divided equally among all the citizens, in proportion to their means.
3.    That the same crimes shall be fubject to the same punishments, without any distinction of persons.
The constitution in like manner guarantees, as natu-ral and civil rights,
Liberty to all men of going, staying, or departing, without being arrested, or detained, but according to the forms prescribed by the conststution.
Liberty to all men cf fpeaking, writing, printing, and " publishing their thoughts, without having their writings subjected to any examination or inspection be-fore publication and of exercising the religious wor-ship to which they are attached.
Liberty to all citizens of affembling peaceably, and without arms, complying with tbe laws of police.
Xsiberty of addressmg to all constitutional authorities petitions individually signed.
The ccnstitution guarantees the inviolability of pro-perty, or a just and previous indemnity for that of which public neceffity, legally proved, shall require tlie sacrisice«.
A
public instruction shall be created and organized, common to all citizens, gratuitous with regard to those parts os tuition indispensable sor all men, and of which tile establishment shall be gradually distributed in a pro-portion combined with the division os the kingdom. *
" The kingdom is one and indivisible;” its territory, sor administration, is distributed into 83 departments, each department into districts, each district into cantons.
Those are French citizens,
who are born in France, os a French sather ;
who having been born in France os a foreign fa
ther, have sixed their residence in the kingdom ;
who having been born in a foreign country, os a
French sather, have returned to fettle in France, and have taken the civic oath:
In sine, who having been born in a foreign country, being descended in whatever degree srom a Frenchman or a Frenchwoman, who have lest their country srom religious motives, come to reside in France, and take the civic oath.
The right os French citizenship is lost,
ist,
By naturalization in a foreign country ;
2dly, By being condemned to penalties which involve
the civic degradation, provided the person condemned* be not reinstated ;
ßdly, By a sentenee of contumacy, providéd the fen-tence be not annulled ; .
4thly, By initiation into any foreign order or body-which supposes either proofs of nobility " or distinctions of birth, or requires religious vows.”
" The law considers marriage only as a civil con-, tract.”
The sovereignty is one, indivisible, " inalienable, and imprescriptible,” and it belongs to the nation : no-· fection of the people^ or individual, can arrogate the· exercise of it.
The nation, from which alone flow all powers, cannot exercife them but by delegation.
The French conststution is representative : the representatives arc the legissative body and-the king.
The National Affembly, forming the legissative body, is permanent, and consists of one chamber only.
It shall be formed by new elections, every two years»
The legissative body cannot be diffolved by the king.
The number of reprefentatives to the legissative' body shall be 745, 011 account of the 83 departments' of which the kingdom is compofed ; and independent, of those that may be granted to the colonies.
The representatives shall be distributed among the 83 departments, according to the three proportions or' land, of population, and the contribution direct:
Of the 745 representatives 247 are attached to the* land. Of tliese each department shall nominate three,· except the department of Palis, which shall nominate only one.
Two hundred and forty-nine representatives are attached to the population. The total mass of the active· population of the kingdom is divided into 249 parts, and each department nominates as many of the·, deputies as it contains parts of the population.
Two hundrcd and forty-nine representatives are at-tachedtothe contribution direct. The sum total of the direct contribution bf the kingdom is likewise divided into 249 parts-; and each department nominates as many deputies as it pays parts of the contribution.
In order to form a legissative national assembly, the active citizens shall convene, in primary assemblies, every two years in the cities and cantons.
" The primary assemblies shall meet of full right on the sirst Sunday of March, if not convoked fooner by the public officers appointed to do so by the law.”
To be an active citizen, it is necessary,
To be a Frenchman, or to have become a French-man ;
To have attained 25 years complete ;
To have resided in the city or the canton from the time determined by the law ;
To pay in any part of the kingdom a direct contri-bution, at least equal to the value of three days labour, and to produce the acquittance ;
Not to be in-a menial capacity, namely, that of a ser-vant receiving wages ;
To be inscribed in the municipality of the place of his residence in the list of the national guards ;
To have taken the civic oath.
The primary assemblies shall name electors in tlie proportion of the number of active citizens residing in the city or canton ;
There shall be named one elector to the assembly, or not, according as there shall happen to be present 100 active citizens.
There shall be named two, when there shall be present from 151 to 250, and so on in this proportion.
The electors named in each department shall con-vene, in order to choose the number of representatives, whose nomination shall belong to their department, and 
a
number of substitutes equal to the third of the representatives.
" The assemblies shall be held of full right on the last Sunday of March, if they have not been before convoked by the public officers appointed to do so by law.”
All active citizens, whatever be their state, profes-sion, or contribution, may be chosen representatives of tlie nation.
Excepting, neverthelefs, the ministels and otlier agents of tlie executive power, &c.
The members of the legissative body may be re-elect-ed to a subsequent legislature, but not till after an interval of one legissature.
No active citizen can enter or vote in an assembly if he is armed.
The representatives shall meet on the sirst Monday of May, in the place of the sittings of the last legisiature.
The royalty is indivisible, and delegated hereditarily to the race on the throne from male to male, by order of primogeniture, to the perpetual exclusion of women and their defcendants.
Nothing is prejudged on the effect of renunciations in the race on the throne.
The person of the king is inviolable and sacred ; his only title is king of the French.
If the king put himself at the head os an army, and direct the forces of
lt
against the nation, or if he do not oppose, by a formal act, any such enterprise undertaken in his name, he shall be held to have abdicated.
If the king having gone out of the kingdom, do not return to it, after an invitation by tbe legissative body, within? the space which shall be sixed by the pr0 .
clamation, “ and which cannot be less than two months,” he shall be held to have abdicated the royalty.
After abdication, express or legal, the king shall be in the class of citizens, and may be accused and tried like them, for acts posterior to his abdication.
The nation makes provision for the splendour of the throne by a civil lift, of which the legisiative body shall six the sum at the commencement of each reign, for the whole duration of that reign.
The king is a minor till the age of 18 complete ; and during his minority there shall be a regent of the kingdom.
The regency belongs to the relation of the king, next in degree according to the order of succeffion to the throne, who has attained the age of 25 ; provided he be a Frenchman resident in the kingdom, and not presumptive heir to any other crown, and have pre-viousiy taken the civic oath.
The presumptive heir shall bear the name of
Prince Royal.
" The members of the king’s family called to the eventual succeffion of the throne, shall add the deno-mination of
French Prince
to the name which shall be given them in the civil act proving their birth ; and this name can neither be patronymic nor formed of any of the qualifications abolished by the present con-stitution.”
" The denomination of
prince
cannot be given to any individual, and shall not cany with it any privilege or exception to the common right of all French citizens.”
To the king alone belongs the choice and dismiffion of ministers.
" The members of the nrcsent national assembly, and of the subsequent legissatures, the members of the tribunal of appeal, and those who sliall be of the high jury, cannot be advanced to the ministry, cannot receive any place, gift, penfion, allowance, or commiffion of the executive power or its agents during the continuance of their functions, or during two years after ceassng to exercise them : the same shall be observed re-specting those who shall only be insenbed on the list of high jurors as long as their inscription shall con-tinue.”
No order of the king can be executed if it be not signed by him, and countersigned by the minister or comptroller of the department.
In no case can the written or verbal order of a king shelter a minister from responsibility.
The constitution delegates ■ exclusively to the legisia’ tive body the powers and functions following ;
To propose and decree laws—The king can only invite the legissative body to take an object into con-sideration ;
To six the public expences ;
To establish tlie public contributions, to determine the nature of them, the amount of each fort, tlie duration, and the mode of collection, &c.
war cannot be resolved on but by a decree of thc nationahaffembly, paffed on the formal and neceffary proposition of the king, and sanctioned by him.
During the whole course of war, the legissative body may require the king to negociate peace ; and the king is bound to yield to this requisition.
It belongs to the legissative body to ratify treaties of
peace, alliance, and commerce ; and no treaty shall have effect but by this ratification.
The deliberations of the legislative body shall be public, and the minutes of the fittings shall be printed.
The legislative body may, however, on any occasion, form itself into a general committee.
The plan of a decree shall be read thrice, at three intervals, the shortest of which cannot be lefs than eight days.
The decrees of the legislative body are presented to the king, who may refufe them his consent.
In case of a refusal of the royal consent, that refusal is only suspensive. when the two following legislatures shall fucceffively present the fame decree in the same terms on which it was originally conceived, the king shall be deemed to have given his sanction.
The king is bound to express his consent or resusal so each decree within two months after its presenta-tion.
No decree to which the king has refnsed his consent can be again presented to him by the same legislature.
The supreme executive power resides exclusively in the hands of the king.
The king is the supreme head of the land and sea forces.
The king names ambassadors, and the other agents of political negociations.
He bellows the command of armies and fleets, and the ranks of marshal of France and admiral :
He names two-thirds of the rear-admirals, one-half of the lieutenant-generals, camp-marshab, captains of ships, and colonels of the national gendarmerie :
He names a third of the colonels and lieutenant-co-lonels, and a sixth of the lieutenants of ships :
He appoints in the civil administration of the marine, the directors, the comptrollers, the treafurers of the arsenals, the masters of the works, the under masters of civil buildings, half of the masters of administration, and the under masters of construction.
He appoints thc commissaries of the tribunals :
He appoints the superintendants in chief of the management of contributions indirect, " and the admini-stration of national domains :”
He superintends the coinage of money, and appoints officers entrusted with this fuperintendance in the
general
commiffion and the mints.
The effigy of the king is struck on all the coinage of the kingdom.
There is in each department
a
superior administra-’tion, and in each district a subordinate administration.
The adminstrators are specially charged with distri-buting the contributions direct, and with superintend-ing the money arising from the contributions, and the public revenues in their territory.
The king has the right of annulling such acts of the administrators of department as are contrary to the law or the orders transmitted to them.
He may, in case of obstinate disobedience, or of their endangering, by their acts, the sasety or peace of the public, suspend them from their functions.
The king alone can interfere in foreign political connections.
Every declaration of war sllall be made in these terms :
By the king os the French in the name os the nation.
The judicial power can in no case be exercised either by the legislative body or the king.
Justice shall be gratuitously rendered by judges chosen from time to time by the people, and instituted by letters patent of the king, who cannot resuse them.
" The public accuser shall be nominated by the people.”
" The right of citizens to terminate disputes desi-nitively by arbitration, cannot receive any infringement from the acts of the legislative power.”
In criminal matters, no citizen can be judged ex-cept on an accusation received by jurors, or decreed by the legislative body in the cases m which it belongs to it to prosecute the accusation.
After the accusation shall be admitted, the fact shall be examined, and declared by the jurors.
The person accused shall have the privilege of challenging 20, “ without affigning any reason.”
The jurors who declare the fact shall not be fewer than 12.
The application of the law shall be made by the
judges.
The. process shall be public ; “ and the person accused cannot be denied the aid of counsel.”
No man acquitted by a legal jury can be apprehended or accused on account of the same fact.
For the whole kingdom there shall be one tribunal of appeal, established near the legislative body.
A high national court, composed of members of the tribunal of appeal and high jurors, shall take cogni-zançe of the crimes of ministers, and the principal agents of the executive power ; and of crimes which attack the general safety of the state, when the legis-lative body shall pass a decree of accusation.
It shall not assemble but on the proclamation of the legislative body ; “ and at the distance of 30,00c toises at least from the place of meeting of the legislative body.”
The national guards do not form a military body, or an institution in tlie state ; they are the citizens themselves called to affist the public force.
Officers are chosen for a time, and cannot again be chöfen till after a certain interval of service as privates.
None shall command the national guard of morethan
one district,
All the parts of the public force employed for the sasety of the state from foreign enemies are under the command of the king.
Public contributions shall be debated and sixed every year by the legisiative body, and cannot continue in force longer than the last day of the following seffion, if they are net expressly renewed.
" Detailed accounts of the expence of the ministe-rial departments, signed and certified by the ministers or comptrollers-general, shall be printed and published at the commencement of the seffions of each legiila-ture.
“ The same shali be done with the statements of the receipt of the different taxes, and all the public revenues.”
The French nation renounces the undertaking of any war with a view of making conquests, and will never employ its forces against the liberty of any people.
The constituting national assembly declares, " That
the
the nation has the imprefcriptible right
of
changing its constitution ; and nevertheless considering that it is more conformable to the national interest to employ only by means provided in the constitution itself, the right of reforming those articses of it, of which experience shall have shown the inconveniencies, decrees, that the proceeding by an- assembly of revision shali be regulated in the form following:
“ when three successive legissatures shall have ex-preffed au uniform wish for the change of any constitu-tional article, the revisson demanded shali take place.
" The next legissature, and the following, cannot propose the reform of any constitutional article.
" The fourth legissature, augmented with 249 members, chosen in each department, by doubling the ordinary number wliich it furnishes in proportion to its population, shall form the affembly of revision.”
The French colonies and poffeffions in Alia, Africa, and America, " though they form part of the French empire,” are not included in the present conftitution.
with respect to the laws made by the national ase sembly which are not included in the act of constitu-tion, and those anterior laws which it has not altered, they shall be observed, so long as they shall not be revoked or modified by the legissative power.
On the 13th of September the King announced, by a letter to the President of the Affembly, his accept-ance of the conftitution. This event was ordered to be notified to all the foreign courts, and the Affembly decreed a general amnesty with respect to the events of the revolution. On the following day the King repaired fin person to rhe National Assembly; and being conducted to a chair of state prepared for him at the side os the President, he signed the constitutional act, and took an oath of fidelity to it. He then withdrew, and was attended back to the Thuilleries by the whole Affembly, with the President at their head. On the 30th of September, tliis National Affembly, which has since been known by the name of the
ConfUtuent AJfem-bly,
dissolved itself, and gave place to the succeeding 
Leststative National Affembly,
which had been elected according to the rules prescribed by the new constitu-tion.
On the character and the labours of the
Constituent Affembly,
we shall only remark, that it contained many men of talents, and, in all probability, a considerable number of men of integrity. Towards the clofe of its seffion, it affumed a very striking character of modera-tion, and appears to have been completely monarchical, although its jealousy os tlie ancient aristocracy pre-vented it from sufficiently guarding the throne against popular violence ; for a very striking defect in the new coustitution soon appeared. The King posseffed a
veto, 
or negative, upon the resolutions of the legisiative body: but this negative he was bound to exercise in 
perfon,
without responsibility, and without the intervention of his ministers. He had no senate, or upper chamber, to stand between him and popular violence ; and there was something apparently absurd in settling the vote of an individual,
»1
opposition to the collective wifdom and will of a whole nation·. In consequence of this, he was reduced to the hard alternative of yielding to every vote of the National Affembly, or of exposing himself personally to public odium.
The new Assembly was opened by the King on the
7th of October, with much apparent union op. all sides. His speech, recommending unanimity aud considence between the legissative and executive powers, was received with unbounded applause. The character of the men who composed the new National Affembly was unauspicions to the Court. At the commencement of the revolution, the great body of the people at a distance from the capital were little interested in those projects of freedom which occupied the more enlightened or more turbulent inhabitants of Paris. They had gra-dually, however, been roufed from their lethargy. The variety of powers conferred by the new constitution upon the people at large, and the multiplicity of offices of which it gave them the patronage, had kindled in the minds of men a love of dominion, and a wish to inter-fere in public affairs. This attached them to the new order of things. The love of power, which is the least difguised paffion in the human heart, and equally strong in the breast of the meanest and of the highest of mankind, was thus, under the name of liberty, become a leading paffion throughout this wide empire. They who flattered it most, and were most loud in praise of the rights of the people, became speedily the favourites of the public. The consequence of this was, that the new National Assembly was chiefly composed os conn-try gentlemen, of principles highly democratic, or os men of letters who had published popular books, or conducted periodical publications. The members of the Constituent Affembly had been excluded by their own decree from holding feats in the new legislature.—-The members of the latter, theiefore, had little regard, for a constitution which they themselves had not framed, and whieh was not protected by the venerable sanction of antiquity.
when this Assembly sirst met, it showed a very trissmg attentlon to formalitles, and a peevlsh jealousy of the ministers of the crown. In the mean time, the treaty of Pilnitz, already mentioned, began to be rumoured abroad, and France was thrown into a state of anxious jealoufy for the sasety of its newly-acquired liberties. Although the Pruffians and Germans (the Elector of Mentz alone excepted) all continued to temporize, the northern powers, Sweden and Ruffia, entered into strict engagements to restore the old def-potism of France. On the 9th of November, a decree was paffed, that the emigrants who, after the sirst of January next, should be found affembled, as at present, in a hostile manner, beyond the frontiers, should be considered as guilty of a conspiracy, and suffer death ; that the French Princes, and public functionaries, wlio should not return before that period, should be punish-able in the fame manner, and their property forfeited during their own lives. On the 18th, a seriesof severe decrees was also paffed against sucli of the ejected clergy as still refused to take the civic oath. To both-these decrees the King opposed his
veto,
or negative.— The moderate party,, who were attached to the consti-tution, rejoiced at this as a proof of the freedom of their sovereign. But, on the other side, it excited a most violent clamour, and became the means of exciting new sufpscion of the wishes of the Court. At this time. answers were received from thc different foreign Courts to the notification sent them of the King’s acceptance of the new constitution. These were generally conceived in a stile of caution, and avoided giving
open offence. The Emperor even prohibited all affem-blages of emigrants within his states ; and the King intimated to the Assembly that he had declared to the Elector of Treves, that unless the emigrants should cease before tbe 15th of January to make hostile preparations within his territories, he would be considered as the enemy of France. All this, however, did not preserve the court from suspicion ; for although the diffe-rent foreign courts had openly declared pacific inten-tions, yet the French emigrants boldly asserted, that all Europe was actually arming in their favour. Accordingly they ceased not to solicit their equals in rank, wlio still remained within tlie country, to leave it to îoin witli tliem in what tliey called the
royal cause.— 
The unhappy Louis, placed between a republican party that was gradually gathering strengtli, and an aristocratical party that was rousing Europe to arms against a nation of wliich he was the constitutional chief, and a combination of Princes justly suspected of wishing to seize upon a part of his dominions, stood in .a situation which would have perplexed tlie most skilful statesman ; and it is no proof of incapacity that he sell a sacrifice to circumstances which miglit have overwhelmed any known measure of human ingenuity. Addreffes were crowding into the Assembly, disapproving the conduct of the court. M. Montmorin resigned ; M. Delessart succeeded him ; and M. Caluer de Ger-villc became minister of the interior. M. du Portail resigned alfo, and M. Narbonne succeeded him as ml-nister of war. In the month of November, M. Bailly’s mayoralty terminated ; and the once popular La Fayette appeared as a candidate to succeed him. But he was successfully opposed by M. Petion, a violent Jacobin, and a declared republican, who was elected mayor of Paris by a great majority.
At this period the moderate men, who were friends of the constitution, attempted to counteract the influence of the Jacobin club by the establishment of a si-milar one. It derived its name from the vacant convent of the
Feudlans,
111 whlch lt affembled. st he most active members of the Constituent Affembly belonged to it, such as Μ. M. D’ Andre, Barnave, the Lametbs, Du Port, Rabaud, Sieyes, Chapelier, Thouret, La-bord, Taleyrand, Montefquieu, Beaumetz, &c. The Jacobins contrived to excite a riot at the place of their meeting, which was in the vicinity of the hall of the National Assembly. This afforded a pretext for ap-plying to the Affembly for tbe removal of the new clilb. The A ssembly showed their disposition, by complying with this requeftt
At the end of this year, the kingdom of France was by no means prosperous. The public revenue had fallen far short of the expenditure. The emigrant no-bility had carried out of the kingdom tbe greater part of the current coin, and a variety of manufacturers, who depended upon their oftentatious luxury, were re-duced to much distrefs. The dispositions of foreign courts appeared very doubtful. The new year, how-ever, opened with delusive prospects of tranquillity.— The German Princes appeared satisfied with the mode of compenfation whieh the French had offered for the loss of their poffeffions in Alsace and Lorraine. The Prince of Lowestein accepted of an indemnification.— The Princes of Hohenlohe and Salm-Salm declared themselves ready to treat upon the same terms. Prince
Maximilian, and tlie Dukes of wirtemberg and Deux-Ponts, freely ncgociated. It is unneceffary to ftate in detail the subterfuges employed, in the mean time, by the crafty Leopold, for amusing the French with the appearances of peace. M. Delessart, minister for fo-reign affairs, fell a sacrisice to them, and probably to the undecided character of Louis. He was accufed by M. Briffot of not having given timely notice to the National Assembly of the dispositions of foreign powers, and of not preffing proper measures for securing the ho-nour and safety of the nation. A decree of accusation paffed against him in his ab fence. He was apprehend-ed, tried by the high national court at Orleans, and executed in consequence of its sentence. '
The sudden death of Leopold on the sirst of March gave rise to a transient hope that peace might still be preserved. A suspicion of poison sell upon the French, but it was removed by the detail of his disease that was speedily piiblished. On the 16th of the fame month, the King of Sweden was wounded by a nobleman of the name of Ankerstrom, ftnd died on the 29th. This enterprising Prince had overturned the constitution of his own conntry, and he had formed the project of con-ducting in person his troops to the frontiers of France, and of commanding or accompanying the combined ar-mies of Europe in their attempt to avenge the cause of insulted royalty. It was in a great measure to counter-act this seheme that he was assaffinated.
The sudden fall, however, of thefe two enemies rather accelerated than retarded the meditated hostilities. The young King of Hungary, who succeeded to the empire, made no secret either of his own intentions or of the existence of a
concert of Princes
against France. M. Dumourier was now at the head of the war-office, M. Rolland was minister of the interior, and M. Cla-viere minister of finance. The Jacobins were all-powerful. The Court gave way to the torrent. The property of the emigrants was consiseated, reserving the rights of creditors. The Imperial minister, Prince Kaunitz, demanded three things of France;
lst,
Tile restitution of their feudal rights to the German Princes; 
zdly,
To restore Avignon to the Pope, the inhabitants of which had fome time before thrown off their allegiance, and prevailed with the Constituent Affembly to receive their country as a part of France ; and
lastly, 
Prince Kaunitz demanded, that " the neighbouring powers should have no reason for apprehension from the present weakness of the internal government of France.” On receiving thefe demands, the king proposed a decla-ration of war, which was decreed by the National Ase sembly on the 20th of April, against
the King os Hungary and Bohemia.
The French immediately began the war, by attack-ing in three different columns the Austrian Netherlands. M. Theobald Dillon advanced from Liile to Tournay, where he found a strong body of Austrians ready to receive him. The national troops, unaccustomed to sustain the sire of regular soldiers, were instantly thrown into confusion, and fled even to the gates of Lisie. The cry of
treason
refounded on all sides; and their com. mander, an experienced and faithful officer, was murdered by bis own soldiers and the mob. A second division of 10,000 men, under Lieutenant-General Birofi, took poffeffion of Quiverain on the 29th, and marched towards Mons, General Biron was here attacked hy
the Austrsans, whom he repulsed.1 Hearing, however, of tile defeat of Dillon, he retreated. A third parry advanced to Furnes, but afterwards withdrew. La Fayette at the fame time advanced towards Bouvines, half way to Namur, from which he afterwards retreated. The whole of these expeditions were ill contrived, in as much as they divided the French undisciplined troops, and exposed them in small bodies to the attack of veteran forces. The Austrians were some time before they attempted to retaliate. At length, however, on the iith of June, they attacked M. Gouvion, who commanded the advanced guard of La Fayette’s army near Maubeuge. M. Gouvion was killed by a rolling bullet ; but La Fayette himself having come up, the Austrians abandoned the field. In the mean time, matters were hastening in Paris towards a violent crisis. Two parties, both of which were hostile to the present constitution, had gradually been formed in the state. The one wished to give more effectual fupport to the royal authority, by establishing a
finale
or
two chambers,
to prevent the king’s vote from being the sole check upon popular enthusiasm. The other party wish-ed to set aside royalty altogether, and to hazard the bold experiment of converting France into a republic. These last were supported by the Jacobin club, which had now contrived to concentrate in itself an immense mass of influence. Innumerable popular societies were established in every town and village throughout the provinces, with these a regular correspondence was kept up by writing and by emissaries. Thus schemes and notions were instantaneously propagated through a great empire, and all the violent spirits which it con-tained were enabled to act in concert : Eut the more immediate engine of the republican party consisted of the immense population of the metropolis, whom they now endeavoured to keep in constant alarm. For this pnrpose they alleged, that an
Austrian Committee,
that is to fay, a confpiracy in favour of the enemies of the coun-try, existed among the friends of the court. Μ. M. Genfonné and Brissot even offered in the assembly to prove the existence of this pretended Austrian committee. À report was next circulated, that the king intended to abseond from the capital on the 23d of May. Fiis majesty publicly contradicted these accusa-tions as calumnies, but they made no small impreffion upon the minds of the public. New decrees were now made against the refractory clergy, but these his majesty resused to sanction. A proposal was also made and decreed in the assembly to form a camp of 20,000. men under the walls of Paris, and that for this levy every canton in thc kingdom should contribute one horseman and four infantry. The national guard of Paiis dis-liked the proposal, and the king gave to it his negative. Indeed at this time the king seems to have come to a resolution os standing out against the Jacobin party, to which he had sor some time yieldedt The ministry were therefore dismissed, excepting M. Dumourier, and others were appointed in their stead. By this event Dumourier lost die confidence of the Jacobin club. Hé saw his error, resigned his office, and joined the army! In the mean time a decree had been passed, authorising tb.e manufactory of pikes for the purpose of arming cheaply the lower class of citizens. Ail means were uscd to render^the king odious by inflammatory .wri-
tings and harangues ;
and
in both of these the noted
incendiary Marat took the lead.
On the 20th of June M. Roederer, the Procureur Ge- _ neral Syndic informed the national assembly, that, con-trary to law, formidable bodies of armed men were preparing to present petitions to the king, and to the national assembly. A part of them speedily appeared with St Huruge and Santerre a brewer at their head. They marched through the hall in a proceffion that lasted two hours, at four o’clock in the afternoon, to the number of about 40,000. They surrounded the Thuilleries. The gates were thrown open; and on an attempt to break the door of the apartment, where the king then was, he ordered them to be admitted. His filler the princefs Elizabeth never departed from his side during four or sive hours that he was surrounded by the multitude, and compelled to listen to every ini dignity. Ali this while Petion, the mayor of Paris, was unaccountably absent. He at length, however, arrived, and also a deputation from the assembly. The queen, with her children and the princess de Lamballe, were in the mean time in the council-chamber, where, though protected from violence, they were yet exposed to much infult. At last, in consequence of the approach of evening, and of the entreaties of Petion, the multitude gradually dispersed.
The indignities sussered on this day by the royal sa-mily were in some respects not unfavourable to their cause. A great number of the most respectable inhabitants of the capital were ashamed of fuch proceedings. They complained of them severely in a petition to the assembly, and addresses to the same purpose were re-ceived from several departments. The directory of the department of Paris, at the head of which were M;. Rochefaucault and M. Tulleyrand, published a declaration disapproving· of the conduct of the mayor, and of M. Manuel the procureur of the commune, whom they. afterwards suspended from their offices, although they were speedily restored by a decree of the assembly. At the same time, La Fayette leaving his army fuddenly, appeared on the 26th at the bar of the national assembly. Iffe declared that he came to exprefs the indignation which the whole army felt on account of the events of the 20th : he called upon the assembly to pu-nish the promoters of these events, and to dissolve the factious clubs. The sudden appearance of La Fayette threw the Jacobins into consternation, and from that period they never ceased to calumniate him.
On the ist of July, on the motion of M. Jean de Brie, tlie assembly ordered'a proclamation to be made, that
the country was in danger.
On the 6th, the king gave intimation that the king of Pruffia was marching with 52,000 men to co-operate against France. The French arms were at this time fomewhat succefsful in the Austrian Netherlands ; but the cabinet speedily thought it necessary to order the armies to retreat : a measure which was. afterwards ■ publicly cenfured by Marshall Luckner.
On the 7th, a lingular, scene occurred in the nation-al assembly. At the instant that M. Brissot was about to commence an oration, M. Lammourette bishop of Lyons requested to be heard for a few minutes. He expatiated on the neceffity of union among the members of the affembly, anchos sacrisicing their paffions and pre-
judices on
the altar of their country. He concluded an animated addrefs with these words, “ Let all who hold in equal detestation a republic and two chambers, and who wish to maintain the constitution as it is, rife!” The words were scarcely pronounced when the whole assembly started from their feats. Men of all parties solemnly embraced each other, and protested their adherence to the constitution. A deputation announced this happy event to the king ; who immediately came and congratulated them in a short speech, which was leceived with infinite app’ause. The only good effect, however, produced by this temporary agreement was, that the sestival of the 14th of July, which was celebrated with the ufual magnificence, passed over in tranquillity.
On the 25th of July, the duke of Brunfwick issued at Coblentz his celebrated manifesto. It declared the purpose of the intended invasion of France to be the restoration of the French king to full authority. It de-clared the national guard of France responfible for the preservation of tranquillity; and threatened with the pu-nishment of death, as rebels to their king, those who should appear in arms against the allied powers. All men holding offices, civil or military, were threatened in the same manner, as well as the inhabitants of all cities. The city of Paris in particular, and the national assembly, were declared responsible for every insult which might be offered to the royal family. It was declared, that if they were not immediately placed in safety, the allies were resolved to inflict " on those who should deserve it the most exemplary and ever memorable avenging punishments, by giving up the city of Paris to military execution, and exposing it to total destruction ; and the rebels who should be guilty of illegal reslstance should suffer the punishments which they should have deserved.” This sanguinary and imprudent manifesto operated as a warrant for the destruction of the unfortunate Louis XVI. It left no middle party in the na-tion. All who wished to preferve freedom in any form, and all who loved the independence of their country, were instantly united. At the same time, the reproach-es cast on the king by the Jacobins now gained univer-sal credit. The kings of Pruffia and of Hungary told the French nation, that their monarch was secretly hof-tile to the constitution ; and the restoration of him and his family to despotic power was made the sole pre-tence for a bloody and dangerous war.
The republican party faw the advantage which they had now gained, and refolved upon the deposition of the king. The chief engine which they meant to employ in this service consisted of about 1500 men, who had come to Paris at the period of the confederation on the 14th of July, and therefore called
faderes,
and who were alfo fometimes denominated
Marfiillms,
from the place from which the greater number of them came. Next to these, dependence was placed in the populace of the suburbs of the capital. Thc designs of the republicans were not unknown to the court, and both parties were forming plans of operation. It is said that the royal party intended that the king and his family should fuddenly lea^e the capital, and proceed to as great a distance as the constitution permitted. The republicans are said to have intended to seize the perfon of the king, and to confine him in the castle of Vin-cennes till a national convention should decide upon his fate. Both allegations are probably true. Every motive which can influence the mind of man must have induced Louis to wish to be at a distance from the factious and sanguinary capital. And the subsequent conduct of the republicans authorise us to believe them capable of the worst crime that was laid to their charge.
Various charges had been brought forward in the affembly against La Fayette, and the 8th of August was appointed for their ducuffion. In the mean time, on the 3d of August, Petion the mayor, at the head of a deputation from the sections of Paris, appeared at the bar, and in a solemn speech demanded the deposition of the king. The discuslion of the accusation against La Fayette was considered as a trial of strength between the parties : he was acquitted, however, by a majority of nearly 200 ; and the republican party, despairing os carrying their point by a vote ©f the national assembly, •resolved to have recourse to infurrection and force.
On the evening of the 9th of August, about 1500 gentlemen, officers of the army, and others, repaired to the palace, resolved to protect the royal family or to die in their defence : added to thefe were 70© Swifs guards, with a body of cavalry amounting to about 
I
ooo. Mandat, the commander of the national guards, a man who was firmly attached to the constitution, had procured 2400 of that body and 12 pieces of cannon, with such a force, it has been generally thought that, by vigorous and steady councils, the palace, which is a kind of castle, might have been successfully defended ; and what is now called a revolution might have born the name of a rebellion. Meanwhile the assembly de-clared its fittings permanent. Petion was at the palace late on the evening of the 9th. Some apprehensions were entertained, or pretended tobe entertained, forhia safety (for the whole of this business was, on the part of the republicans, the most infernal plot), and a deputation from the assembly brought him away. At mid-night the toçlin or alarm bell was founded, and thc drums beat to arms through the city. At this instant a number of the most active leaders of the republican party assembled, and elected a new common council or 
commune.
The persons thus irregularly chosen inssantly took posseffion of the common hall, and drove out tlie lawful members ; who, with that weakness with wliich men are apt to shrink from stations of responsibility in pe-rilous times, readily gave place to tlie usurpers. The new commune sent repeated messages to M. Mandat, requiring liis attendance upon important business. He was occupied in arranging the troops in the beft order a-round tlie palace ; but suspecting nothing, he went to the common Lall, and was there astonished to sind a different affembly from what he expected. He was a-bruptly accused of a plot to maffacre the people, and ordered to prison ; but as he deseended tbe stairs, lie was shot with a pistol, and Santerre was appointed in his stead to command the national guard.
On this eventful night no perfon in the palace went to bed. About six o’clock in the morning of the 10th the king deseended into the gardens to review tlie troops. He was received with shouts of
Vive le roi
excepting from the artillery, who shouted
Vive la nation. 
The king returned to the palace, and the multitude continued to collect. The national guard seemed undetermined about what they were to do, as they assembled in divisions
near
thc palace ; and had a steady re-
fistaflfce been made from within, it is probable they would have joined the royal party. But towards eight o’clock M. Roederer procured admittance to the palace, and told the king that armed multitudes were assembling in hostile array around the Thuilleries ; that the national, guard was not to be depended upon ; and that, in case of resistance, the whole royal family would most certainly be massacred. He therefore advised the king to seek protection in the hall of the national affembly. with this advice the king, with his usual facility of temper, was ready to comply ; but the queen opposed with vehemence the humiliating proposal. Becoming gradually, however, alarmed for the sasety of her children,
she
gave her consent 5 and the king and queen, the princess Elizabeth, with tlie prince and princess royal, went on foot to the hall of the affembly. " 1 am come hither (said his majesty) to prevent a great crime. Among you, gentlemen, I believe myself in safety.” By an article of the constitution the assein-bly could not deliberate in presence of the king. The royal family were, therefore, placed in a narrow box fe-parated from tb.e hall by a railing, where they remained sor 14 hours without any place to which they could retire for refreshment, excepting a very sinall closet adjoining. Here they sat listening to debates, in which the royal character and office were treated with every mark of insult.
when the king left the palace of the Tliuilleiies, he unfortunately forgot to order it to be immediately surrendered. He recollected this as soon as he reached the assembly, and sent orders for this purpose ; but it was now too late, 's'he insurgents amounted to about 20,000 effective men. They were drawn up in tolerable order by westerman a Pruffian, and had about 30 pieces of cannon along with them. The gentlemen within the palace, who had assembled to protect the king’s person, were now dispirited, and knew not what part to act. The commander of the Swifs, M. Assry, was absent, and the captains knew not what to do; and the national guard had no leader in consequence of the death of Mandat. About nine o’clock the outer gates were forced open ; and the insurgents formed their line in front of the palace. A bloody combat commenced chiefly between the Marseillois and the Swiss. After a brave reslstance of about an hour, the Swiss were overpowered by numbers, and gave way. All of them that could be sound in tlie palace were massacred ; fome •even while imploring quarter on their knees. Others eseaped into the city, and were protected by individuals. Of this brave regiment, however, only 200 furvi-ved ; but every human being, even the lowest servants found in the palace, were put to death. The Swisa taken prifonere in various quarters were conducted to the door os the assembly, and taken by a decree under the protection of the state. But the sanguinary multitude insisted upon putting them to instant death ; and the assembly would, in ashprobability, have been unable to protect them, had smt the Marseillois interfered in their favour.
The suspension of the royal authority was now decreed, and the nation was invited to elect a
Convention
to determine the nature of its suture government. On this uncommon occasion all Frenchmen of 21 years of age were declared capable of electing, and of being elected, deputies to thc new national Convention. Coni-
miffioners were, in the mean timc, sent 011 the fame evening to give to the armies a salse and favourable account of these transactions. The royal family were sent to the old palace of the Femple in the midst of the city, to remain there under a strict guard ; and all persons of rank who had been attached to them were sei-r.ed and committed to rhe different prisons.
To give an idea of the temper of the people of Paris at this time, it is proper to remark, that at the same instant when the multitude with bloody fury were maf-sacring tile menial servants in the palace, and could fcarcely be restrained from offering violence to the Swiss who were made prisoners, they would susser no act of pillage to pass unpunished. Several attempts of this kind were accordingly followed by the instant death of the criminals. The plate, the jewels, and money found in the I huilleries were brought to the national assembly, and thrown down in the hall. One man, whose dress and appeal ance bespoke extreme poverty, cast upon the table an hat full of gold.—Bu^ the minds of these men were elevated by enthusiasm ; and they conceived themselves as at this moment the champions of freedom, and objects of terror to the kings of the earth.
In the mean time, the situation of France was extremely critical, and it appeared very doubtful if the new Convention would ever be sussered to assemble. La Fayette had accidentally got speedy notice of the events of the 10th of Augush He advised the magistrates of the town of Sedan to imprison the commiffioners from the national assembly when they should arrive there ; which was accordingly donc. He, at the same time, published an address to his ärmyj calling upon them to support the king and the constitution°; but finding that they were not to be depended upon, on the 19th August he left his camp in the night, accompanied only by his stass and a few servants. They took the rout of Rochefort in Liege, which was a neutral country ; but were met by a party of the enemy, who took them prifoners, and they were detained in Pruffian and Austrian dungeons till autumn 1794, when it is said that La Fayette himself made lsis efcape. The severe treatment of this man was probably a considerable error in policy 011 the part of the allies. Fiis fide-lity to his king is very generally admitted; though some have entertained strong suspicions of his having°acted a very base part to that unfortunate monarch ; and in the British house of commons he has been calied an abandoned ruffian. This expreffion is certainly too strong. His errors seem to have been those of the head rather than of the heart ; and at all events, he should have been protected by the allies if sor no othcr reason than to encourage subsequent desertions among the officers of the republican açmy.
To return from this digreffion. The commiffioners were soon set at liberty at Sedan, and received with applause by the army of La Fayette. General Arthur Dillon at sirst entered into the sentiments of La Fayette; but tlie politic Dumourier diverted him from his purpose, and by this means regained his credit with the Jacobins, and was appointed commander in chief. The other generals, Biron, Montesquieu, Kellerman, and Custine, made no opposition to the will of the national assembly.
Meanwhile, the combined armies of Austria and Pruffia had entered France. The duke of Brunswicksa
army was above 50,000 strong. General Clairfait bad joined him with 15,000 Austrians, and a considerable body of Hessians, along with 20,000 French emigrants; amounting in all to 90,000 men. To oppose these, Dumourier had only j 7,000 men collected near the point from which thc enemy were approaching in I^uxemboulg. The French emigrants had given the duke of Brunswick- such an account of the diffracted state of their own country, and of the pretended disaf-fection of ail orders of men towards the ruling faction in Paris, tliat no resistance of any importance was expected. when the combined troops, consisting either of steady Austrian or Hungarian battalions, or of tliofe well disciplinecl Pruffians wliich the great Frederick had inured to the best military discipline, were reviewed in Germany before setting out on their march, it is faid that the spectators, among whom tlic French canse was not unpopular, beheld them with anxiety and regret, and pitied the unhappy conntry against which this irresistible force was directed. The soldiers and their officers regarded themselves as departing for a hunting match, or an e-xcursion of pleasure ; and many of the usual accommodations of an army were ill attended to, such as hospitals, &c. The beginning of their progress into France justisied these expectations. Long-wy surrendered after a siege of
15
hours, although well fortified, poffeffed of a garrifon of 3500 men, and defended by 71 pieces of cannon. The news of this event irritated the assembly fo much, that they decreed; that, when retaken, the houses of the citizens shonld be razed to the ground ; and,, distruftful of the officers of the army, they decreed that the municipal officers of a town should hereafter have power to controul the de-liberations of the- council of war. Verdun was next summoned ; and here the municipality compelled the governor M. Bèaurepiare to surrender. That officer, disappointed and enraged, shot himself dead with a pi-stol in presence of the council, and on the 2d of Sep-tember the Pruffian troops entered the town.
The news of this second capture, and of the ap-p-roach of the Pruffians, fpread an sussant alarm through Paris. It was proposed to raise a volunteer army, which should set out immediately to meet the enemy. The -common council, which was now led by Robefpierre, Danton, Marat, and others of the most sanguinary character, ordered the alarm-guns to be fired, and the populace to be summoned- to meet in the Champ de Mars to enroll themselves to march against the enemy. The people assembled, and either in consequence of a premeditated plan, or, which is not very probable, of an instantaneous movement, a number of voices exclaimed, that " the domestic foes of the na-tion ought to be destroyed before its foreign enemies were attacked.”
Parties of armed men proceeded without delay to the prisons where the non-juring clergy, the Swiss offi-cers, and those confined since the 10th of August on account of practices against the state, were detained in custody. They took out the prisoners one by one, gave them a kind of mock trial before a jury of them-selves, acquitted some few, and murdered the reft. A-mong these last was the princess de Lamballe. She was taken from her bed before this bloody tribunal, and maffacred; her head was carried by the populace to the 
Temple, to be seen by the queen, whose
friend
she was.
Thefe massacrcs lasted for two days, and upwards
os
1000 perfons were put to death. There is scarce any thing in history that can be represented as parallel to them ; they were committed, it is said, by lefs than 300 men, in the midst of an immense city, which heard of them with horror, and in the vicinity of thc national affembly, which, by going in a body, could have put an end to them. But such was the confusion and dismay of these two disgracesul days, that no man dared to stir srom his own house ; and every one belie-ved that the whole city, excepting his own street, was engaged in maffacre and bloodshed. The national guards were all ready at their respective posts, but no man directed them to act : and there is too much reason· to suspect that Santerre and the chiefs of the com-mune connived, at least, at the transaction.
In the mean time, general Dumourier was taking the best meafures to protract the march of the enemy till the army of Kellerman, consisting of 20,000 men, could join him from Lorraine, and that of Bournonville from Flanders, amounting to 13,000; together with whatever new levies Luckner might be able to send him from Chalons. The forest of Argonne extends from north to south upwards of 40 miles ; it lay direct-ly in the route of the duke of Brunswick, who must either force his way across it, or make a circuit of 40 miles by the pass of Grandpré on the north, or by Bar-leduc on tbe south. The pass that lay directly in his route was that of Biesme. After surveying Dillon’s position here, he left a party of 20,000 men to watch it ; and with the main body of his army took the cir-cuitous rout by Grandpré on the north. Here Du-mourier waited to receive him, and was attacked on the 12th and 13th without success: but on the 14th, the attack of the Pruffians was irresistible, and Dumourier retreating, gave up the pass. On his march he was so violently preffed by the advanced cavalry of the Prus-sians, that his army, at one time, was seized with a pa* nic, and fled before 1500 men ; who, if they had push-ed their advantage, might have dispersed it. On the 15th, however, Dumourier encamped at St Menehould, and began to fortify it. Bournonville’s army joined Dumourier on the 17th. The duke ef Brunswick formed a plan of attacking Kellerman before his junc-tion could be completed. That general arrived on the 19th within a mile of Dumourier’s camp ; the project-ed attack took place ; the Pruffians, manoeuvred- with thcir ufual coolness and address ; they attempted to surround Kellerman’s army, but this could not be ac-complished. The French troops- preserved excellent order, while the national vivacity was constantly showing itself in their shouts and patriotic songs : 40O French were killed, and 500 wounded ; the lofs of the Pruffians was much greater : and,, in the face of the enemy, Kellerman joined Dumourier at the end of the engagement without opposition. At the time that the attack was made on the army of Kellerman, an at-tempt was made to force Dillon’s camp at Biesme by the 20,000 men that had been left in its vicinity, but without success ; and this large detachment was thus prevented from croffing the forest of Argonne and join-ing the dnke of Brunswick. It is to be observed, that
. in these engagements the French owed their superiority chiefly to the excellence of their artillery ;
a
circum-
ftance which served to convince their enemies that they
hàff to contend
with regular military bodies, and not with undifciplined multitudes, as they expected.
The duke of Brunswick encamped his army at La Lun, near the camp of Dumourier. And here the Pruffians began to be in extreme dlstrefs both from sickness and famine. No temptation could induce the inhabitants of the country to carry provisions to the hostile camp, while at the fame time the French army was abundantly supplied.
Bournonville, with a body of 4000 men, intercepted several droves of cattle and other convoys of provisions destined for the Pruffians. The rain fell in torrents, and the roads were uncommonly deep. Exposed to the cold, the moisture, and want of provisions, the Pruffians rashly ate great quantities of the grapes of Champagne. The consequence of this was, that an epidemical distem-per commenced and spread through the army to such an extent, that 10,000 men at one time were unfit for duty. The duke of Brunswick, however, still commanded a force much more numerous than that of Dumourier ; and he has been much censured for not attacking his camp, and forcing him to engage. It has been laid, that the veteran and numerous force which he com-manded would have marched to certain victory a-gainst the raw troops that opposed them ; that, having defeated Dumourier’s army, there was nothing to oppose their march to Paris. But the duke ot Brunswick had entered France upon the supposition, that in its present distracted state no regular army could be brought into the field against him, and that the people at large were hostile to the ruling faction. ss he contrary of ail this had turned out to be true. He found himself in the midst of an hostile people, and op-posed by skilful military chiefs. A defeat in such a situation would have brought certain ruin to his army ; and even the loss snstained in the acquisition of a victory might have proved equally fatal. ss he remains of the French army would not fail to hang upon his rear 5 and from the disposition of the people it appeared impoffible to ascertain to what amount that army might be suddenly increased. After proposing a truce, there-fore, which lasted eight days, he commenced his retreat towards Grandpré, and no advantage v/as gained over him in the course of it. Verdun was retaken by the French on the 12th of October, and Longwy on the 18 th; the siege of Thionville was at the same time raised. That small, but strong fortress, under the command of general Felix wimpfen, had held in check an army of 15,000 men.
while the Pruffians were advancing from the north-east, the Austrians under the duke of Saxe Tefchen laid siege to Lisie. The council-general of the commune anfwered tlte summons of the besiegers thus, "we have just renewed our oath to be faithful to the nation,, and to maintain liberty and equality, or to die at our post. we wili not perjure ourselves.” Such was the cant of these men who had already perjured themselves by contributing to overturn the constitution which they had repeatedly fworn to defend. The Austrian batte-ries began to play upon the town on the 29th, and were chieflydirected against that quarter which was inhabi-ted by the lowcr class of citizens, for the purpose of making them mutinous and seditious. This procedure was ill judged. The lower clastes of mankind are always much accustomed to hardships, and they go farthest
in 
support of any enthusiastic principle they have been persuaded to adopt. Accordingly, though a great part of the ciry was reduced to a heap of ruins, the citizens of Lisie became daily more obstinate. They received each other into the houses that were still standing, and every vault and cellar was occupied. Although up-wards of 30,000 red-hot balls and 6000 bombs were thrown into the city, besides the efforts made by an im-mense battering train of artillery, yet the loss both to the garrison and people did not exceed 500 pet sons, most of whom were women and children. Aster a fortnight of fruitlefs labour the Austrians raised the siege.
war had been declared against the king of Sardinia on account of the threatening appearances exhibited in that quarter. On the 20th of September general Montefquieu entered the territories of Savoy, and was received at Chambery and throughout the whole country with marks of unbounded welcome. On the 29th general Anselm, with another body of troops, took poffeffion of Nice and the conntry around it. On the 30th general Custine advanced to Spires, when he found the Austrians drawn up in order of battle. Hc attacked and drove them through the city, taking 3000 of them prisoners. The capture of worms succeeded that of Spires; Mentz surrendered by capitulation; and Franckfort fell into the hands of the French on the 23d. Out of this last place, however, they were afterwards driven on the 2d of December.
On the 20th of September the French
National Convention
affembled. It was found to contain men of all characters, orders, and ranks. Many distinguished members of the
Conftituting
Affembly were elected into it, and also several that had belonged to the
Legflalive 
Assembly ; even foreigners were invited to become French lcgissators. The famous Thomas Paine and Dr Priestley of England were elected by certain depart-ments ; but the latter declined accepting. Clouts a Pruffian, whom we formerly noticed as bringing a de-putation to the bar of the constituent affembly, consi st-ing of persons representing all the nations of the earth, was also chosen. The general aspect of the new convention showed that the republican party liad acquired a de-cided superiority. On the sirst day oscrneeting M. Collot D’Herbois, who had formerly been an actor, ascendcd the tribune, and proposed
the eternal abolition of royalty in France.
The question was carried by acclamation, and the house adjourned. Meffages were sent to all parts of the country to intimate the decree, and by the influence of the Jacobins they were everywhere re-ceived with applause. It was next day decreed, that all public acts should be dated by the year of the French republic ; and all citizens were declared eligible to all the vacant offices and places. The rage of republica-nism soon went so far, that the ordinary titles of Mon-sieur and Madame were abolished, and the appellation of
Citizen
substituted in their stead, as more suitable to the principles of liberty and equality.— It may be re«= marked, that in this last trifling circumstance an attachment to the form of speech to which they had been accustomed appears even in its abolition : For, al-though the Roman orators addreffed their countrymen when affembled by the honourable appellation of
Citizens,
yet they never, in accosting an individual, called him Citizen Cato, or Citizen Cæfar, according to the 
mode now
adopted in France.
It was soon discovered that the leading.republicans had divided into two opposite factions. The one of these was called
Girondßs
, becaufe V'ergniaud, Gen-soene, Guadet, and some others of its leaders, were members from the department of La Gironde. The celebrated Condorcet belonged to this party; and they were sometimes denominated
Bofsfihnes,
from M. Brissot de warville their principal leader. They supported the ministry now in officc, at the head of which was Roland ; and the majority of the convention was obviously attachets to them. In opposition to thesc was the smaller party of the
M untrnn ;
fo called from its members usually sitting in the convention on the upper feats of the hall. They were men possessed of lefs perfonal respectability, and fewer literary accomplishments, but os daring and sanguinary characters, whom the revolu-t ion had brought into public notice. At the head of this party were Danton and Robefpierre ; and subor-dinate to these were Couthon, Bazire, Thuriot, Mer-hn de Thionville, St Andre, Camille Demoulins, Chabot, Collot D’Herbois, Sergent, Legendre, Fabre D’Eglantine, Panis, and Marat.
s hesc two parties showed the diversity of their characters in the manner in which they treated the massacres of the 2d and 3d of September. The Brissotines, with the majority of the convention, wished to bring the murderers to trial ; but the question was always eluded by the other party, with the assistance of the Jacobin csub and of the populace.
On the 9th os October it was decreed, that all emigrants, when taken, should susser death; and on the 15th os November, in confeqnence of an infurrection in the duchy of Deux Ponts, and an application on the part of the insurgents to thc convention sor aid,the following decree was passed : " The national convention declare, in the name of the French nation, that they will grant fraternity and affistance to ali those people who wish to procure liberty ; and they clsarge the executive power to send orders to the generals to give asslstance to such people as liave suffered, or are now susfering, in the cause os liberty.” Of this decree foreign nations, with great reason, complained much, as will shortly appear.
To return to the military affairs of the new republic. On the 12th of October General Dumourier came to Paris, and was speedily sent to commence a winter campaign in the Netherlands. He suddenly attacked the Austrians at the village of Boffu, and drove them from their ground. On the 5th os November he came in sight of the enemy upon the heights of
Je-mappe.
.Three rows of fortifications arose above each other defended by 100 pieces of cannon. Their right was covered by the village and a river, and thcir left by thick woods. The French were by their ovzn account 30,000, whilst others with great probability of truth compute them at double that number, and the number of the Austrians was at least 20,000. At seven in the morning of the following day a heavy cannonade com-menced on both sides, and at noon a close attack was determined on by the French, whose right wing was commanded by Generals Bournonville and Dampierre, and the centre by Generals Egalité (son to the duke of Orleans who had affumed that name), Stetenboffe, Desporets, and Drouet. The music played thepopu-Iar march of the Marseillois, and the soldiers rushed on with enthusiasm, shouting " Vive la nation.” The
en-'
gagement was warm and bloody ; the French were twice repulsed ; but their impetuosity was at last irresistible, and about two o’clock the enemy fled from their last entrenchments. The loss on both sides was very great, that of the Austrians amounting to 400c. This victory was decisive of the fate of the Netherlands. Mons and Brussels surrendered to Dumourier ; 'smurnay, Malines, Ghent, and Antwerp, were taken possession of by General Labourdonnaye ; Louvain and Namur were taken by General Valence ; and the whole Austrian Netherlands, Luxembourg pnly excepted, fell into the hands of the French : Liege was taken on the 28th of November after a succefsful engagement, in which thc Austrians lost 5 or 600 men and an immense train of artillery.
France was now in a situation not unusual in.the history of those nations that either are free, or are at-tempting to become so; successful in all quarters abroad, but distracted by factions at home. Ί he two parties in the convention were engaged in a struggle, which daily became more implacable. The party called the 
Mountain
did not hêfitate about the nature of the means they were to employ to bring about the ruin of their antagonists. 1 hey are even suspected of having, through the medium of Fache the war-minister, retarded the supply of the armies, to render the ruling party odious by want of success. They were for fome time, however, unfortunate in this respect ; and the daily news· of victories supported with the public the credit of the Girondists. A new subject was therefore fallen upon, which was the question, how the dethroned king was to be disposcd of? The moderate patty wished to save him ; and this was a sufficient reason for their antago-nill s to resolve upon his ruin. A committee was ap-poiuted to give in a report upon his conduct. A variety of accusations were brought against him ; and the convention insamously refolved co act the part of ac-cufers and of judges.
It was on the 1 1 th of December when the ill-fated monarch was ordered to the bar of the convention : the act of accusation was read, and the king was summon-ed by the president, Barrere, to answer to each scparate chargç.
Prof. “
Louis, the French nation accnses you of having committed a multitude of crimes to establish your tyranny, in destroying her freedom. You, on the 20th of June 1789, attempted the sovereignty of the people, by suspending the assemblies of their represen-tatives, and expelling them with violence from the places of their sittings. This is proved in the procefs verbal entered at the Tennis-court of Versailles by the members of the conststuent assembly. On the 23d of June you wanted to dictate laws to the nation ; you surrounded their representatives with troops ; you prcsented to them two royal declarations, subversive of all liberty, and ordered them to separate. Your own declarations, and the minutes of the assembly, prove these attempts, what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
" No laws were then existing to prevent me from it.”
Prof
" You ordered an army to march against the citizens of Paris. Your satellites have shed the blood of several of them, and you would not remove this army till the taking of the Bastile and a general infurrection. announced to you that the people were victorious. The
speeches you made on thc 9th, 12th, and 14th of July to the deputations of the constituent assembly, shew what were your intentions ; and the massacres os the s hnille-ries rife in evidence against you.—What have you to answer
Louis. '“ I
was master at that time to order the troops to march ; but I never had an intention of shed1 · ding blood.”
Prey.“
After these events, and in spite of thc promises which von mafic on the 15th in tlie constituent assem-bly, and on the 1 7th in the town-house of Paris, you have persisted in your projects against national liberty. You long eluded the execution os the decrees of the 
ι
lth of August, respecting the abolition of personal servitude, the feudal government, and tythes : you long refused acknowledging the rights of man ; you doubled the number of the life-guards, and called the regiment of Flanders to Versailles : you permitted, iu orgies held before your eyes, the national cockade to be trampled under foot, the white cockade to be hoist-ed, and the nation to be slandered. At last, you rendered necessary a fresh infurrection, occasioned the death of -several citizens, and did not change your language till after your guards had been defeated, when you renewed your perfidious promises. 's'he proofs of these facts arc in your Gbservations of the 18th os September, in the decrees of the 11th of August, in the minutes of the constituent assembly, in the events of Versailles of the 5th and 6th of October, and in the conversation you had on the same day with a deputation of the constituent assembly, when you told them you would enlighten yourself with their councils, and never recede from them.—what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
“ I have made the observations which I thought just 011 the two first heads. As to the cockade, it is salse ; it did not happen in my presence.”
Prof. “
You took an oath at the federation of the 14th of July, which you did not keep. You soon tried to corrupt the public opinion, with the aslistance of Talon who acted in Paris, and Mirabeau who was to have excited counter-revolutionarv movements in the provinces.—what have you to answer?”
Louis.
" I do not know what happened at that time ; but the whole is anterior to my acceptance of the constitution.”
Prof.
" You lavished millions of money to effect this corruption, and you would even use popularity as a means of enslaving the people. These
facts
are the result of a memorial of Talon, on which you have made your marginal comments in your own hand-writing, and of a letter which Laporte wrote to you on the 19th of April; in which, recapitulating a conversation he had with Rivarol, he told you, that the millions which you had been prevailed upon to throw away had been productive of nothing. For a long time you had meditated on a plan of eseape. A memorial was delivered to you on the 28th os February, which pointed out the means sor you to effect it ; you approve of it by marginal notes.—what have you to answer ?”
Louis. “
I felt no greater pleasure than that of re-lieving the needy : this proves no design.”
Prof
" On the 28th a great number of the nobles and military came into your apartments in the castle os the Thuilleries to favour that cscape : you wanted to quit Paris on the 10th of April to go to St Clair , — what have you to answer?”
Louis.
" i his accusation is absurd.”
Prof “
But the resistance of the citizens made you sensible that their distrust was great ; you endeavoured to discard it by communicating to the constituent' assembly a letter, which you addressed to the agents of the nation near foreign powers, to announce to them that you had freely accepted the constitutional articles, which had been presented to you ; and, notwithstanding, on the 2ist you took flight with a salse passport. You lest behind a protest against these self-same constitutional articles ; you ordered the ministers to sign none of the acts issued by the National Assembly ; and you forbade thc minister of justice to deliver up the seals of state. The public money was lavished to insure the succefs of this treachery, and the public force was to protect it, under the orders of Bouille, who shortly before had been charged with the maffacre of Nancy, and to whom you wrote on this head, " to take care of his popularity, becausc it would be of service to you.” Thcse facts aie proved by the memorial of the 23d of Febru-ary, with marginal comments in your own hand-writing ; by your declaration of the 20th of June, wholly in your own hand-writing ; by your letter of the 4th of September 1790 to Bouille ; and by a note of the latter, in which he gives you an account of the use he made of 993,000 livres, given by you, and employed partly in trepanning the troops who were to escort you. —what have you to answer ?”
Lows.
“ I have no knowledge whatever of the me-morial of the 23d of February. As to what relates to my journey to Varennes, I appeal to my declaration to the commissaries of the constituent assembly at that period.”
Prof.
" After vour detention at Varennes, the exercise of the executive power was sor a moment suspended in your hands, and yon again formed a conspiracy. On the 17th of July the blôod of citizens was shed in the Champ de Mars. A letter, in your, own hand-writing, written in 1790 to La Fayette, proves that a crirninal coalition fubsisted between you and La Fayette, to which Mirabeau acceded. The revision began under these cruel auspices ; all kinds of corruptions were made use of. You have paid for libels, pamphlets, and newf-papers, designed to corrupt the public opinion, to dis-credit the aslignats, and to support the caufe of the emigrants. The registers of Septeuil shcw what immense sums have been made nse of in these liberticide manœuvres.—what have yon to anfwer?”
Louis.
“ what happened on the 17th of July has nothing at all to do with me. I know nothing of it.”
Pre!·
“ You seemed to accept the constitution on the 14th of kSeptember ; your speeches announced an intention of supporting it, and you were busy in overturning it, even before it was completed A convention was entered into at Pilnitz on the 24th of July, between« Leopold of Austria and Frederic-william of Branden-burgh, who pledged themselves to re-erect in France the throne of 'absolute monarchy, and you were silenL upon this convention till the moment when it was known; by all Europe.—what have you to anfwer?”
Lows.
“ I made it known as soon as it came to my knowledge ; besides, every thing that refers to this subject concerns the minister.”
Prof.
" Aries had hoisted the standard os rebellion ; 'you favoured it by sending three civil commissaries, who made it their busmefs not to repress the counter« revolutionists, but to justify their proceedings.—what have you to answer ?”
Lows.
" The inftructions which were given to the commiffaries must prove what was their miffion ; and I knew none os them when the ministers proposed them to me.”
Prof
" Avignon, and the county of Venaiffin, had been united with France ; you caused the decree to be executed ; but a month aster that time civil war defo-lated that country. The commiffaries you sent thither helped to ravage it.—what have you to answer?”
Louis.
“ I do not remember what delay has been -caused in the execution os the decree ; besides, this occurrence has no personal reference to me ; -it only con-cerns those that haye been sent, not those who sent them.”
• Pres.
" Nîmes, Montauban, Mende, Jales, felt great shocks dm ing the sirst days os freedom. You did no-thing to stisse those germens os counter-revolution till the moment when Saillant’s conspiracy became mani-festly notorious.—what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
" I gave, in this respect, ali tlie orders which were proposed to me by the ministers.”
Prof
“ You sent 22 battalions against the Marseil-lois, who marched to reduce the counter-revolutionists os Arles. - what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
“ I ought to have the pieces referring to this matter, to give a just answer.”
Prof
“ You gave the southern command to wit-genstein, who wrote to you on the 2ist os April 1792, after he had been recalled : ‘ A sew instants more, and I shall call around the throne os your Majesty thousands os French, who are again become worthy of the wishes you form sor their happiness.’—what have you to an-swei ?”
Louis.
" This letter is dated since his recall ; he has not been employed since. I do not recollect this letter.”
Prof.
" You paid your late life-guards at Coblentz ; the registers os Septeuil attest this ; and general orders signed by you prove that you sent considerable remit-tances to Bouille, Rochefort, Vauguyon, Choiseul, Beaupre, Hamilton, and the wife os Polignac.—what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
" when I sirst learned that my life-guards affembled beyond the Rhine, I stopped their pay : as to the reft, ί do not remember ?”
Prof
“ Your brothers, enemies to the state, caused the emigrants to rally under their banners : they raised regiments, took up loans, and concluded alliances in your name : you did not diselaim them 5 but at the moment when you were fully certain that you could no longer cross their projects, your intelligence with them by a note, written by Louis Stanisiaus Xavier, signed by your two brothers, was conceived in these words :
‘ I wrote to yon, but it was by post, and I could say nothing. \Ve are two here, who make but one ; one in sentiments, one in principles, one in zeal of serving
you. we
keep silence ; because, were we to Jbreak it too soon, it would injure you : but we shall speak as soon as we shall be certain os general support, 
#ad that moment is near. If we are spoken to on the 
part os those people, we shall hear nothing ;
but
is on your part, we will listen : we shall pursue our road straiglit. It is therefore desired that you will enable us to say something. Do not stand on ceremonies. Be easy about your sasety : we only exist to serve you ; we are eagerly occupied with this point, and all goes on well ; even our enemies feel themseives too much interested in your preservation to commit an useless crime which would terminate in their own destruction. Adieu.
‘ L. S.
Xavier
and
‘ Charles Philippe?
" what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
" I disowned all the proceedings os
my
brothers, according as the conststution preseribed me to do, and srom the moment they came to my knowledge. Of tliis note I know nothing.”
PreJ.
" The soldiers of tlie line, who were to be put on the war establishment, consisted but of ic 0,000 men at the end of December, you therefore neglected to provide for the sasety of the state from abroad. Nar-bonne required a levy of 50,000 men, but he stopped tlie recruiting at 26,000, in giving affnrances that all was ready ; yet there was no truth in these assurances. Servan proposed after him to form a camp of 20,000 men near Paris ; it was decreed by the legisiative affem-bly 5 you resused your sanction.—what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
" I had given to the ministers all the orders for expediting the augmentation of the army : in tlie month of December last, the returns were laid before the Assembly. If they deceived themselves, it is not my fault.”
Prof
" A ssight of patriotism made tlie citizens re-pair to Paris from all quarters. You iffued a procla-mation, tending to stop their march ; at the same time our camps were without soldiers. Dumourier, the suc-ceffor of Servan, declared that the nation had neither arms, ammunition, nor provisions, and that tlie posts were left defenceless. You waited to be urged by a re-quest made to the minister Lajard, when the legissative affembly wished to point out the means of providing sor the external sasety of tlie state, by proposing tlie levy of 42 battalions. You gave commiffion to tlie commanders os the troops to diiband the army, to force whole regiments to desert, and to make them pass the Rhine, to put them at tlie disposal of your brothers, and of Leopold of Austria, with whom you had intelligence. Ί his fact is proved by the letter of Toulou-geon, governor of Franche Comté.—what have you to answer ?”
Lows.
" I know nothing of this circumstance ; there is not a word of truth in this charge.”
Prof.
" You charged your diplomatscal agents to favour this coalition of foreign powers and your brothers against France, and especially to cement the peace between Turkey and Austria, and to procure thereby a larger number of troops against France from the latter. A letter of Choiseul-Gouffier, ambassador at Con-stantinople, verifies the fact.-—what have you to an-swer ?”
Louis.
" M. Choiseul did not speak the truth : no such thing has ever been.”
P'of
“ The Pruffians advanced against our fron» tiers : your minister was summoned on the 8th of July 
to give an account of
the
state of our
political relations
with Pruffia; you answered, on the icth, that
50,000
Pruffians were marching against us, and that you gave notice to the legislative body of the formal acts of the pending hostilities, in conformity to the constitution. —what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
“ It was only at that period I had know-ledge of it : all the correspondence passed with the mi-ni sters.”
Prof.
“ You entrusted Dabancourt, the nephew os Calbnne, with the department os war ; and such has been the success os your conspiracy, that the posts os Longwy and Verdun were surrendered to the enemy at the moment os their appearance.—what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
" I did not know that Dabancourt was M. Calonne’s nephew. I have not divested the posts. I would not have permitted mysels such a thing. I know nothing of it, is st has been so.”
Pres.
" You have destroyed our navy - a vast num-ber os officers belonging to that corps had cmigrated ;; there scarcely remained any to do duty in the harbours ; meanwhile Bertrand was granting paffports every day ; and when the legissative body represented to you his criminal conduct on the 8th os March, you answered, that you were satissied with his services.— what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
“ I have done all I could to retain the officers. As to M. Bertrand, since the legissative affembly presented no complaint against him that might have put him in a state os accusation, I did not think proper to turn him out os office.”
Prof.
" You have favoured the maintenance os absolute government in the colonies ; your agents soment-ed troubles and counter-revolutions throughout them, which took place at the same epoch when it was to-have' been brought about in France, which indicates plainly that your hand laid this plot.—what have you. to answer ?”
Louis.
" If there are any os my agents in the co-lonies, they have not spoken the truth ; 1 had nothing to do with what you have just mentioned.”
Preof
a The interior os the state was convulsed by fanatics ; you avowed yourself their protector, in mani-festing your evident intention of recovering by them your ancient power.—what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
“ I cannot answer to this ; I know nothing of such a project.”
Preof
" The legissative body had passed a decree on the 29th of January against the factious priests ; you suspended its execution.—what have you to an-swer ?”
Louis.
“ The constitution referved to me the free ripht to refuse my sanction of the decrees.”
C 'Preof
" The troubles had increafed ; the minister declared, that he knew no means in the laws extant to arraign the guilty. The legissative body enacted a fresh decree, which you likewise suspended.—what have you to say to this ?”
[Louis replied in the same manner as in tlie preced-ing charge. J
Pre/
" The uncitizen-like conduct of the guards whom the constitution had granted you, had rendered it neceffary to dishand them. The day after, you sent them a letter expreffive of your satisfaction, and
con
tinued their pay. This fact is proved by the trea-surer of the civil list.—what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
" I only continued them in pay till fresh ones could be raised, according to the tenor of the decree.”
Prefi
“ You kept near your person the Swisa-guards : the constitution forbade you this, aud the legislative affembly had expressly ordained their departure.—· what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
" I have executed all the decrees that have been enacted in this respect.”
Preof
“ You had private companies at Paris, char-ged to operate movements useful to your projects os a counter-revolution. Dangremont and Gilles were two of your agents, who had salaries from the civil lift. The receipts of G illes, who was ordered to raise a company of 60 men, shall be presented to you.—what have you to anfwer ?”
Louis. “ I
have no knowledge whatever of the pre-jects Taid to their charge : the idea of a counter-revolu· tion never entered into my mind.”
Preof
- " You wished to suborn, with conssderable sums, several members os the legissative and constituent· affemblies. Letters from St Leon and others evince the reality of these deeds.—what have you to answer ?”
Louis.
“ Several persons presented themfelves with ssmilar decrees, but I have waved them ”
Preof
“ who are they that presented you with those projects ?”
Louis.
“ The plans were so vague that I do not recollect them now.”
Preof i(
who are those to whom you gave money?’5
Louis.
" I gave money to nobody.”
Preof
" You suffered the French name to be reviled in Germany, Italy, and Spain, fince you omitted to demand satisfaction for the bad treatment which the French suffered in those countries.·—what have you to answer ? ’
Louis.
" The diplomatical correspondence will prove the contrary ; besides, this was a concern of the ministers.”
Preof
“ You reviewed the Swiss on thé 10th of August at sive o’clock in the morning ; and the Swifs were the sirst who fired upon the citizens.”
Louis.
I'went on that day to review all the troops that were assembled about me ; the conssstuted authori-ties were with me, the department, the mayor, and municipality ; I had even invited thither a deputation of the national assembly, and- I asterwards repaired into the midst of them with my family.”
Preof
“ why did you draw troops to the castle ?”
Louis.
“ All the constituted authorities saw that the castle was threatened ; and as I was a constituted authority, I had a right to defend myfelf.”
Preof
" why did you summon the mayor of Paris in the night between the 9th and 1 oth of August to the castle ?”
Louis.
" On account of the reports that were circulated.”
Pres.
" You have caused the blood of the French to be shed.”
Louis.
" No, Sir, not I.”
Preof
“ You authorized Septeuil to carry on a ;
considerable trade in corn, sugar, and coffee, at Hamburg. This fact is proved by a letter of Septeuil.”
Louis,
il 1 know nothing of what yon say.”
Preof
“ why did you affix a
veto
on the decree which ordained the formation of a camp of 20,000 men
Lou's.
" The constitution left to me the sree right of resusing my sanction of the decrees ; and even from that period I had demanded the assemblage of a camp at Soissons.”
Profilent,
addreffing thc convention. " The qne-stions are done with.”— (To Louis)—" Louis, is there any thing that you wish to add ?”
Louts.
" I request a communication os the charges which I have heard, and of the pieces relating thereto, and the liberty of choosing counsel for my defence.
Valazé, who sat near the bar, prefented and read to Louis Capet tbe pieces, viz. The memoir of Laoorte and Mirabeau, and some others, containing plans of
a 
counter-revolution.
Louis.
“ I difown them.”
Valazé next presented several other papers, on which the ait of accusation was founded, and asked the king if he recognized them. These papers were the following ;
Valazé. “
Letter of Louis Capet, dated June 29th 1790, fettling his connections with Mirabeau and La Fayette to effect a revolution in the constitution.”
Louis.
ίι I reserve to myfelf to anfwer the con-tents”— (Valazé read the letter.)-—" It is only a plan, in which there is no question about a counter-revolution; the letter was not to have been sent.”
Valazé.
" Letter of Louis Capet, of the 2 2d of April, relative to conversations about the Jacobins, about thc president of the committee of finances, and the committee of domains ; it is dated by the hand of Louis Capet.”
Louis.
" I difown it.”
Valazé.
“ Letter of Laporte, of Thursday morning, March 3d, marked in the margin in the hand-writing of Louis Capet with March 3d 1791, implying a pretended rupture between Mirabeau and the Jaco-bins.”
Louis.
" I disown it.”
Valazé.
“ Letter of Laporte without date, in his hand-wri ting, but marked in the margin by the hand of Louis Capet, containing particulars respecting the last moments of Mirabeau, and expreffing the care that had been taken to conceal from the knowledge of men sorae papers of great concern which had been deposited with Mirabeau.”
Louis.
“ I disown it as well as the reft.”
Valazé.
“ Plan of a constitution, or revision of the conftitution, signed La Fayette, addreffed to Louis Capet, April 6th 1790, marked in the margin with a line in his own hand-writing.”
Louis.
“ These things have been blotted out by the conftitution.”
Valazé.
" Do you know this writing ?”
Louis.
" I do not.”
Valazé.
" Your marginal comments ?”
Louis.
" I do not.”
Valazé.
“ Letter of Laporte of the 19th of-April, marked in the margin by Louis Capet April 19. 1791, mentioning a converfation with Rivarol.”
Lows.
" I disown it.” Λ
Valazé.
"Letter of Laporte, marked April 16, 1791, in which it seems complaints are made of Mirabeau, the abbé Perigord, André, and Beaumetz, who do not feem to acknowledge sacrifices made for their fake.”    s .
Lows.
" I disown it likewise.”
Valazé.
" Letter of Laporte of tlie 23d of Febru-ary 17Q1, marked and dated in the hand-writing of Louis Capet ; a memorial annexed to it, respecting the means of his gaining pooularsty.”
Louis.
“ I know neither of these pieces.”
Valazé.
" Several pieces without lignature, found in the castle of the
Ί
huilleries, in the gap which was shut in the walls of the palace, relating to the expences to gain that popularity.”
Preoflent.
" Previous to an examination on this sub* ject, I wisll to ask a preliminary qnestion : Have you cauied a press with an iron door to be constructed in the castle of the fhnilleries, and had you your papers locked up in that press ?”
Louis,
" I have no knowledge of it whatever.”
Valazé.
" Here is a day-book written by Louis Capet himself, containing the pensions he has granted out of his coffer from 1776 till 1792, in which are obferved some douceurs granted to Acloque.”
Louis.
" This I own, but it coniifts of charitable donations which Γ have made.”
Valazé. “
Different lifts of sums paid to the Scotch companies of Noailles, Gramont, Montmorency, and Luxembourg, on the 9th of July 1791.”
Louis.
" T'his is prior to the epoch when I forbade them to be paid.”
Preof
" Louis, where had you deposited thofe pse-ces which you own ?”
Louis.
“ with my treasurer,”
Valazé.
“ Do yon know thefe pension-lists of the life-guards, the one hundred Swiss, and the king’s guards for 1792 ?”
Louis.
“ I do not.”
Valazé.
" Several pieces relative to the confpiracy of the camp of Jales, the originals of which are depo- . sited among the records of the department of L’Ar-dêche.”
Louis.
u I
have not the fmallest knowledge of them.”
Valazé.
“ Letter of Bouille, dated Mentz, bearing an account of 993,000 livres received of Louis Ca-pet.”
Louis.
" I disown it.”
Valazé. t< ‘
An order for payment of 168,000 livres, signed Louis, indorsed Le Bonneirs, with a letter aud billet of the fame ”
Lows.
“ I disown it.”
Valazé.
“ Two pieces relative to a present made to the wife of Polignac, and to Lavanguyon and Choiseul.”
Louis.
ie I disown tliem as well as the others.”
Valazé.
" Here is a note signed by the two brothers of the late king, mentioned in the declaratory act.”
Louis.
“ I know nothing of it.”
Valazé.
" Here are pieces relating to the affair of Choiseul-Gouffier at Constantinople.”
Louis.
“ I have no knowledge of them.”
Valazé.
" Here is a letter of the late king to the bishop os Clermont, with the answer of the latter, of the 16th of April 1791.”
Louis.
" I disown it.”
Profdent.
" Do you not acknowledge your wri-ting and your signet ?”
Louis.
I do not.”
Preofdent.
" The seal bears the arms of France.”
Louis.
" Several persons made use of that seal.”
Valazé.
“ Do you acknowledge this list of sums paid to Gilles ?”
Louis.
“ I do not.”
Valazé.
“ Here is a memorandum for indemnify-ing the civil list for tlie military pensions ; a letter of Dufrefne St Leon, which relates to it.”
Louis.
" I know none of these pieces.”
when the whole liad been investigated in this man-
ner, the president, addreffing the king, said, " I have no other questions to propofe—have you any thing more to add in your defence ?”—" I desire to have a copy of the accusation (replied tlie king), and of the papers on whicli it is founded. I also desire to have a counsel of my own nomination.” Barrere informed him, that his two first requests were already decreed, and that the determination respecting the other would be made known to him in due time.
It would liave been an excefs of cruelty to refuse a request so reasonable in itfelf ; it was therefore decreed that counsel should be allowed to the king, and his choice fell upon M. M. Tronchet, Lamoignon Male-sherbes, and Deseze ; he liad previousiy applied to M Target, who excused himself on account of his age and infirmity. On the 26th of December, the king appeared for the last time at the bar of the convention ; and M. Deseze read a defence which the counfel liad prepared, and which was equally admired for tlie solidity of the argument and the beauty of the composition.
when the defence was sinished, the king arose, and holding a paper in his hand, pronounced in a calm manner, and with a sirm voice, what follows : “ Citizens, you have heard my defence ; I now speak to you, perhaps for the last time, and declare that my counsel have afferted nothing„to you but the truth ; my confcience reproaches me with nothing : 1 never was afraid of having my conduct investigated ; but I observed with great uneasi-ness, that I was accused of giving orders for shedding the blood of the people on the 10th of August. The proofs I have given through my whole life of a contra-ry disposition, I hoped would have saved me from sucli an imputation, which I now solemnly declare is entire-ly groundless.”
The difcuffion was fatally closed on tlie 16th of Ja-nuary. After a fitting of near 34 hours, the punishment of death was awarded by a small majority of the convention, and several of these differed in opinion from the rest, respecting the time when it should be inflicted; some contending that it should not be put in execution till after the end of the war, while others proposed to take tlie sense of the people, by referring the sentence to the primary affetnblies.
M. Deseze then solemnly invoked the assembly in the name of his colleagues, to consider by what a small majority tlie punishment of death was pronounced against the dethroned monarch. " Do not afflict France (added this eloquent advocate) by a judgment that will appear terrible to her, when
stve
voices
only
were
VVT    T    J
prefnmed snfficient to carry it.” He appealed to eternal jnstice, and sacred humanity, to induce the convention to refer their sentence to the tribunal of the people. “ You have either forgotten or destroyed (said the ce-lebrated M. Tronchet) the lenity which the law allows to criminals, of requiring at least
two-thirds
of the voices to constitute a definitive judgment,”
I'he sentence was ordered to be executed in twenty-four hours.
The king and his family had been for some time kept separate from each other ; but he was now allowed to see them, and to choose an ecclesiastic to attend him. The meeting, and, above all, the separation from his family, was tender in the extreme. On Monday the 2ist January, at eight o’clock in the morning, the unfortunate monarch was summoned to his fate. He afcended the scassold with a sirm air and step. Raising his voice, he said, " Frenchmen, I die innocent ; I pardon all my enemies; and may France”—at this instant the inhuman Santerre ordered the drums to beat, and the executioners to perform their office, when they offered to bind his hands, he started back as if about to refill ; but recollected himfelf in a moment, and submitted. when the instrument of death descended, the priest exclaimed, " Son of St Louis, afcend to heaven.” The bleeding head was held up, and a few of the populace shouted
Vive la République.
His body was interred in a grave that was silled up with quicklime, aud a guard placed around till it should be consumed.
Ί hus fell Louis XVI. He possessed from nature a good understanding, which, however, was blunted by the early indulgences of a court. He had a strong sense of jnstice, and his humanity was perhaps extreme. One defect rendered his virtues of little va-lue, whieh was the posseffion of an irresolute and un-steady character. Unambitious, and easily advised, he was without difficulty induced to change his purposes, efpecially by his queen, whose connection with the house os Austria had always tended to render his coun-sels unpopular, whether he was or was not connected with the foreign invaders of his country, posterity must decide ; but all men of sense and moderation must be convinced that he was murdered by a band of ruffians. Indeed a sentence so infamous, and in all respects un-just, is not to be found in the records of history. The greater part of the charges brought against him werc trifling. Those which seem to be of importance re-late to conduct authorized by the constitution under which he acted ; and that constitution declared his person inviolable. The feverest punishment that he could incur by law, was not death, but deposition ; and there is no doubt, that in putting him to death the French nation broke the social compact which their represen-tatives made with him. In a political view, this tragical event was injurious to the republican caufe throughout Europe. No man out of France ventured to justi-fy it ; and in all countries it excited the most violent indignation against the rulers of tlie new republic.
New enemies were now hastening to join the general league against France, we do not mean here to enter into a detail of the political struggles tliat occurred in any other country, than tliat in the narrative of whose revolution we are now engaged. It will therefore only be necessary to remark in general, that the British go-verment at this time thought itself endangered by the propagation of those speculative opinions which had
overturned the French monarchy. Almost all the men of property in the kingdom concurred with the ministry in thinking a war with France necessary for the pur-pose of securing the constitution at home. After the loth of August the British minister had been recalled ; but the new republic still suffered the former ambassa-dor from France, M. Chauvelin, to remain in England.
The oftensible grounds
of
quarrel on the part of Great Britain were chiefly two ; the decree os the 15th of November 1792, by which
it
was truly observed that encouragement to rebellion was held out to tlie subjects of every ftate, and that war was thereby waged against every established government. Of this decree the French executive council gave explanations, denying tlie fairness of the interpretation put upon it, and alleging, that the intention of the convention was only to give aid to fuch countries as
had already
acquired their freedom, and by a declaration of the general will requested aid for its preservation. But this explanation cannot be admitted. The decree expressly says, that the French nation will
grant coffiftancedo all who wifh to procure liberty ;
and when it is considered what their notions of liberty are, it cannot be doubted but that their intention was to excite rebellion in foreign nations. The second point of dispute referred to the opening of the Scheldt. This river runs from Brabant through the Dutch territory to the sea. The Dutch had shut up the mouth of it, and prevented any maritime commerce from being carried on by the people of Brabant by means of the river. To render themfelves popular in Brabant, ;he French had declared, that they would open the navigation of the Scheldt. But Great Britain had some time before bound herself by treaty with the Dutch to affist them in obstructing this nayigation, and now declared to the French, that the project of opening the Scheldt mnst be renounced if peace with Great Britain was to remain. The French alleged, that by the law of nations navigable rivers ought to be' open to all who reside on their banks ; but that the point was of no importance either to France or England, and even of very little importance to Holland ; that if the people of Brabant themselves chose to give it up, they would make no objection. It has been thought remarkable, that the Dutch gave themselves no trouble about the matter. They did not ask the asslstance of England ; and with that coolness which is peculiar to their character, the merchants in-dividually declared, tliat if the Scheldt was opened, they could manage tlieir commerce as well at Antwerp as at Amsterdam. But in all this there is nothing strange. Among tlic Dutch were many republicans, wlio wished for the downfal of the stadtholder. Tliese rejoiced at every thing wliich distressed him, or had a tendency to render his office useless in the eyes of the people. Others, who thought disserently, were afraid to speak their sentiments,, as Dumourier was in their neighbourhood with a victorious army. The result of the whole was, that M. Chauvelin was commanded by the Brstish government to leave this country. The French executive council gave powers to another mini-ster, M. Maret, to negociate, and requested a passport for him ; but he was not sussered to land. The haughty republicans having thus sar humbled themselves before the British government, at last, on the ist of February 1793, on the motion of Brissot, the national convention decreed, among other articles, that " George king of England had never ceased since the revolution
of the 10th of August 1792 from giving
to the
French nation proofs of his attachment to the concert of crowned heads ; that he had drawn into the same lake the stadtholder of the United Provinces ; that, contrary to the treaty of 1783, the English ministry had granted protection to the emigrants and others who have openly appeared in arms against France; that they have committed an outrage against the French repnb-lic, by ordering the ambassador of France to quit Great Britain ; that the English have stopped divers boats and vessels laden with corn for France, whilst, at tlie same time, contrary to the tieaty of 1786, they con-tinue the exportation of it to other foreign countries ; that to thwart more efficaciousiy the commercial trans-actions of the republic with England, they have by an act of parliament prohibited the cmculation of assignats. The convention therefore
declare,
that in consequence of tliefe acts of hostility and aggreffion, the French republic is at war with the king of England and tlie stadtholder of the United Provinces.”
The absurdity of pretending tliat any treaty with France made in 1783 could be violated hy protecting the emigrants who fled from the fury of tlie convention, must be obvious to every reader. The convention was itself a rebellious usurpation of tlie government with which such a treaty was made. The prohibition of affignats was certainly contrary to no law, and was sanc-tioned by every motive os expediency, unless tlie convention could prove that all nations were bound by the law of nature to risk their own credit upon tlie credit of the Frencll republic.
About a fortnight after this absurd declaration against Britain, war was likewise declared against Spain ; and in tlie course of tlie summer France was at war with all Europe, excepting only Swisserland, Sweden, Den* mark, and Turkey.
In the mean time General Dumourier, who was proceeding agreeably to his orders, made an attack upon Holland ; but in doing this he dispersed his troops in sucli a manner as to expose them much to any attack on the side of Germany. He commanded General Mi-randa to invest Maestricht, while he advanced to block up Breda and Bergen-op-zoom. The sirst of these places, viz. Breda,surrendered on the 24th of February; Klundert was taken on the 26th ; and Gertruydenberg on the 4th of March. But here tlie triumphs of Dumourier ended. The sieges of williamstadt and Bergen-op-zoom were vigorousty but unsuccesssully pressed. On tbe ist of March General Clairfait having passed the Roer, attacked the French posts, and compelled them to retreat with tlie loss of 2000 men.
The following day the archduke attacked them anew with considerable success. On the 3d the French were driven from Aix-la-Chapelie, with the loss of 4000 men killed and 1600 taken prisoners.
The siege of Maestricht was now raised, and the French retreated to Tongres, where they were also at-tacked and forced to retreat to St Tron. Dumourier here joined them, but did not bring his army along with him from the attack upon Holland. After some skirmishes a general engagement took place at Neer-winden. It was fought on the part of the French with great obstinacy ; but they were at length over-? powered by the number of their enemies, and perhaps alfo by the treachery of their commander. This de-feat
was fatal. The French lost 3000
men, and
6oz>o
immediately deserted and went borne to France. Dumou-rier continued to retreat, and on the 2 2d he was again attacked near Louvain. He now, through the medium of Colonel Mack, came to an agreement with the Im-perialists that his retreat should not be serioussy inter-fupted. It was now fully agreed between him and the Imperialists, that while the latter took poffeffion of Condé and Valenciennes, he should march to Paris, diffolve the convention, and place the son of the late king upon the throne.
The rapid retreat and succeffive defeats of General Dumourier rendered his conduct suspicious. Commis-sioners were sent from the executive power for the purpose of diseovering his designs. They diffembled, and pretended to communicate to him a seheme of a coun-ter-revolution. He confeffed his intention of diffolving the convention and the Jacobin club by force, which he said would not exist three weeks longer, and of re-storing monarchy. On the report of these commise fioners the convention sent Bournonville the minister of war to supersede and arrest Dumourier, along with Camus, Blancal, La Marque, and Quinette, as commiffioners.' The attempt on the part of these men was at least hazardous, to say no more of it ; and the result was, that on the sirst of April Dumourier sent them prisoners to General Clairfait’s head quarters at Tournay as hostages for the sasety of the royal family. He next attempted to feduce his army from their fidelity to the convention ; but he speedily found that he had much mistaken the character of his troops. Upon the report that their general was to be carried as a criminal to Paris, they were seized with sudden indignation; but when they found that an attempt was making to pre-vail with them to turn their arms against their country, their sentiments altered. On the 5th of April two proclamations were iffued ; one by General Dumourier, and the other by the prince of Saxe Cobourg, declaring that their only pnrpose was to restore the constitution of 1789, 1790» and 1791. Prince Cobourg announ-ced that the allied powers wished merely to co-operate with General Dumourier in giving to France her con-stitutscnal king and the constitution she had formed for herself, declaring, on his word of honour, that he came not to the French territory for the purpose of making conquests. O11 the same day Dumourier went to the advanced guard of his own camp at Maulde. He there learned that the corps of artillery had risen upon their general, and were marching to Valenciennes ; and he soon found that the whole army had determined to stand by their country. Seven hundred cavalry and 800 infantry was the whole amount of those that deserted with Dumourier to the Auftrians, and many os them afterwards returned.
By the defection of Dumourier, however, the whole army of the north was diffolved, and in part dishanded, in presence of a numerous, well-disciplined, and victorious enemy. The Pruffians were at the same time advancing on the Rhine with an immense force, and about to commence the siege of Mentz. In the interior of the republic more serious evils if possible were arising. In the departments of La Vendée and La Loire, or the Provinces of Brittany and Poitou, immense multitudes of emigrants and other royalists had gradually assembled in the course of the winter. They prosessed to
act
in the name os Monsieur, as regent os France.
About
the
middle os March they advanced against Nantz to the amount of 40,000. In the beginning os April they defeated the republicans in two pitched battles, and possessed themselves os 50 leagues os country. They even threatened by their own efforts to shake the new republic to its foundation. On the 8th os April a congress of the combined powers assembled at Antwerp. It was attended by the prince of Orange and his two sons, with his excellency Vander Spiegel, on the part of Holland ; by the duke of York and Lord Auckland on the part of Great Britain ; by the prince of Saxe Cobourg, Counts Metterinch, Staren-berg, and Mercy Dargenteau, with the Pruffian, Spa-nish, and Neapolitan envoys. It was here determined to commence active operations against France. The prince of Cobourgsa proclamation was recalled, and a scheme of conquest announced.
Commiffioners from the convention now set up the standard of the republic anew, and tlie seattered battalions flocked around it. General Dampierre was appointed commander, andon the 13th lie was able to resist a general attack upon his advanced posts. On tlie 14th, his advanced guard yielded to superior numbers, but on tlie 15th was victorious in a long and well-fought battle. On the ' 23d tlie Austrians were again repulsed, and on thc ist of May General Dampierre was himself repulsed in an attack upon tlic enemy. On the 8th another engagement took place, in which tlie French general was killed by a cannon ball. On the 23d a very determined attack was madc by the allies upon the French fortified camp of Famars, which covered the town of Valenciennes. I'he French were overcome, and in the night abandoned their camp. In confeqnence of this the allies were enabled to commence the siege of Valenciennes ; for Condé had been blockaded from the lst of April.
About the same time General Custine on the Rhine made a violent but unsuccessful attack upon the Prusc sians, in consequence of which they were soon enabled to lay siege to Mentz. The Corsican General Paoli revolted at this period ; and tlie new republic, affaulted srom without by the whole strength os Europe, was un-dermined by treachery and faction within.
while the country was in a state verging upon utter ruin, parties in the convention were gradually waxing more fierce in their animosity ; and regardless os what was paffing at a distance, they seemed only anxious sor the extermination os each other. In the month os March, the celebrated
Revolutionary Tribunal
was esta-blished sor the purpose os trying crimes committed a-gainst the state; and the Girondist party, the mildness os whose administration had contributed not a little to increase the evils os their country, began to see the neceffity os adopting measures os severity. But the pub-lic calamities, which now rapidly followed each other in fucceffion, were aseribed by their countrymen to their imbecillity or perfidy. This gave to the party os tlie 
Mountain
a fatal advantage. On the 15th os April tlie communes of the 48 sections os Paris presented a petition, requiring that the chiefs os the Girondists therein named should be impeached and expelled from the convention. This was followed up on the
lit
of May by another petition from the suburb of St Antoine. The Girondist party in the mean time impeached Marat, but he was acquitted by the jury at his trial. '1 he
Mountain, by the assistance of the Jacobin club, had now acquired a complete ascendancy over the city of Paris. The Girondists or Brissotines proposed therefore to remove the convention from the capital ; and to prevent this, rhe
Mountain
resolved to make the same use of the people of the capital -against the Girondist party that they had formerly done against the monarch on the
I
oth of August. It is unnecessary to state in detail all the tumults that occurred either in Paris or in the convention during the remaining part of the month of May. On the 31ft, at four o’clock in the morning, the tociin was founded, the generale was beat, and the alarm guns fired. All was commotion and terror. The citizens flew to arms, and assembled round tbe convention. Some deputations demanded a decree of accusation against 35 of its members. The day, however, was spent without decision. On the afternoon of the ist of June an armed force made the same demand. On the 2d of June this was repeated, the tocsin again founded, and an hundred pieces of cannon surrounded the national hall. At last Barfere mounted the tribune. He was confidered as a moderate man, and respected by both parties ; but he now artfully deserted the Girondists. He invited the denounced members voluntarily to resign their character of representatives. Some of them complied, and the president attempted to dissolve the sitting ; but the members were now imprifoned in their own hall. Henriot, commander of the armed force, compelled them to remain ; and the obnoxious deputies, amounting to upwards of 90 in number, were put under arrest, and a decree of denunciation against them signed.
It is obvious, that on this' occasion the liberties of France were trodden under foot. The minority of the national representatives, by the asslstance of an armed force raised in the capital, compelled the majority to submit to their measures, and took the leading members prifoners. Thus the city of Paris assumed to itself the whole powers of the French republic ; and the nation was no longer governed by representatives freely cliofen, but by a minority of their members, whose sentiments the city of Paris and the Jacobin club had thought sit to approve of. Human history is a mass of contradictions. The
Mountain
party came into power by preaching liberty, and by violating its fundamental principles. How sar the plea of political neceffity may excuse their con-duct, we shall not venture to decide explicitly. Certain it is, however, that they soon commenced a career of the most terrible energy both at home and abroad that is to be found in the annals of nations.
The sirst refult of their victory in the capital was ca-lamitous to the republic at large. Brissot and some other deputies escaped, and endeavoured to kindle the flames of civil war. In general, however, the influence of the Jacobin club, and of its various branches, was such, that the north of France adhered to the convention as it stood ; but the southern departments were speedily in a state of rebellion. Tlie department of Lyons declared the
Mountain
party outlawed. Marfeilles and Toulon followed tlie example of Lyons, and entered into a confederacy, which has since been known by the appellation of
Faderalism.
The departments of La Gironde and Calvades broke out into open revolt. In short, the whole of France was in a state of violent convulsion. Still, however, the enthusiastic garrisons of Mentz and Valenciennes protected it against the sm« mediate entrance of a foreign force, and allowed leisure for one of its internal factions to gain an ascendancy, and thereafter to protect its independence. In the mean time, the political entliusiasm of all orders of per-fons was such, that even tlie female sex did not escape its contagion. A young woman of the name of Charlotte Cordé, in tlie beginning of July, came from the department of Calvades to devote her life for what she thought the cause of freedom and of her country. She requested an interview with
Marat,
the most obnoxious of the Mountain party. Having obtained it, and con-versed with him calmly for some time, she suddenly plunged a dagger in his breast, and walked carelessly out of the house. She was immediately seized and condemned. At the place of execution she behaved with infinite constancy, shouting
Vive la république.
The remains of Marat were interred with great splendor, and the convention attended his funeral. His party perhaps derived advantage from the manner of his death, as it seemed to fatten the odious charge of affas-sination upon their antagonists, and gave them the appearance of suffering in the cause of liberty. The truth is, that assaffination was sanctioned by both parties under pretence of defending the liberties of the republic.
One of the sirst acts of the Mountain junto after their triumph was to sinish the republican conftitution. Previous to tlieir fall, the Girondists liad brought forward tlie plan of a constitution, chiefly the work of Condorcet; but it never was sanctioned by the convention, and was too intricate to be practically useful. The new constitution now framed, which was afterwards sanctioned by the nation, but has never yet been put in practice, abolishes the former mode of electing the represeutatives of the people through the medium of
electoral
astemblies, and appoints them to be chosen immediately by the
primary
assemblies, which are made to consist of from 200 to 600 citizens, each man vo-ting by ballot or open vote at his option. There is·· one deputy for every 40,000 individuals, and population is the sole basis of representation. The elections take place every year on the ist of May. Electoral astemblies are still retained sor one purpose. Every 200 citizens in the primary assemblies name one elector ; and an assembly of all the electors of the department is afterwards held, which elects candidates sor the
executive council,
or ministry of the republic. The legissative body choofes out of this list of candidates the members of the executive council. One half of this council is renewed by each legissature in the last month of the sesc slon. Every law, after it is passed by the legissative body, is sent to the department. Is in more than half of the departments the tenth of the primary assemblies of each have not objected to it, it becomes effectual.. Trial by jury is established. National conventions may be called for altering the constitution, and
muß
be call-ed, if · required by the tenth of the primary affemblies of eacll department in a majority of the departments.
The publication of tliis constitution procured no small degree of applause to the convention and the Mountain party. The rapidity with which it was formed (being only a fortnight) seemed to cast a just reproach upon the ssowness of their antagonists, and it was regarded as a proof of their being decidedly se-
tsoua ln the eause of republicanism. No
regard, how-1 ever, has been paid to it by the
convention,
which has declared itself permanent, nor indeed does it seem pos-sible to carry it into execution.
we have mentioned that Condé was invested from the beginning of April. It did not yield till thc loth of July, when the garrison was so much reduced by famine and diseafe, that out of 4000 men, of which it originally consisted, only 1500 were sit for service. The eyes of all Europe were in the mean time saxed upon the siege of Valenciennes. Colonel Moncrieff had contended, that batteries ought immediately to be placed under the walls without approaching it by regular pa-rallels ; but the Imperial engineer Mr Ferraris afferted, that the work of the great Vanban must be treated with more respect ; and his opinion was adopted by the council of war. The trenches were opened on the 14th of June. Few sallies were attempted by the gar-rison, on account of the smallness of their number. The inhabitants at sirst wished to furrender ; but the violence of the bombardment prevented their affem-bling or giving much trouble on that head to General Ferrand the governor. Much of the labour of the siege consisted of mines and countermines. Some of these having been successfully sprung by the allies, tlie town was surrendered on the 27th of July by capitula-tion to the Duke of York, wlio took posseffion of it in behalf of the emperor of Germany. The siege of Mentz was at the same time going on. It sussered much from famine. At lass, after an unsuccessful at-tempt by the French army on the Rhine for its relief, Mentz surrendered on the 2 2d of July.
At the termination of the siege of Valenciennes it is said that the allied powers were at a loss how to pro-ceed next. The Austrian commanders are faid to have presented two plans : The sirst was to penetrate to Pa-ris by the affistance of the rivers which fall into the Seine ; the other was to take advantage of the conster-nation occasioned·by the surrender of Valenciennes, and with 50,000 light troops to penetrate suddenly to Paris, while a debarkation should be made ©n the coast of Brittany to affist thc royalists. The proposal of the British ministry was, however, adopted, which was, to divide the grand army, and to attack
west
Flanders, beginning with the siege of Dunkirk. This determination proved ruinous to the allies. The French found means to vanquish in detail that army, which they 1 could not encounter when united.
It is said that the Duke of York was in fecret cor-respondence with Omeron the governor of Dunkirk ; but he was removed before any advantage could be taken of his treachery. On the 24th of August the Duke of York attacked and drove the French outposts into the town, after an action in which the Austrian General Dalton was killed. A naval armament was expected from Great Britain to co-operate in the siege, but st did not arrive. In the mean time, a strong re-publican force menaced the covering army of the allies, wliich was commanded by General Freytag. He was foon attacked and totally routed. The siege was raised. The British lost their heavy cannon and baggage, with several thousand men; and the convention, belie-ving that their General Houchard could have cut off the Duke of York’s retreat, tried and executed him for this neglect of duty,
Prince Cobourg and General Clairfait in the mean time unsuccesssully attempted to besiege Cambray and Boucliain. (Quesnoy was, however, taken by General Clairfait on the 1 ith of September ; and here finally terminated for the present campaign the success of the allies in the Netherlands.
A considerable part of the French army of the north took a strong position near Manbeuge, where they were blockaded by Prince Cobourg v but upon the 15th and 16th of October he was repeatedly at-tacked by the French troops under General Jourdan, who succeeded Houchard. 'I he French had now re-covered their vigour. They brought into the held a formidable train of artillery, in which were many 24 pounders. Commiffioners from the convention harangued the soldiers, threatened the fearful, and applauded the brave. Crowds of women, without consusion, went through the ranks, distributing spirituous li-quors in abundance, and carrying off the wounded, 'i'he attacks were repeated and terrible on both sides ; but the Austrians had considerably the disadvantage, and Prince Cobourg retired during the night. 3 he French now menaced maritime Flanders. They took Furnes and besieged Nieuport. A detachment of British troops ready to fail to the west Indies were hastily sent to Ostesd, and prevented for the present the farther progress of the French.
Such was the multiplicity of the events that now oc-curred in France, that it is difficult to state the out-lines of them with any tolerable perspicuity. we have already mentioned the extensive dissensions that occurred throughout the republic in consequence of the tri-umph of the Mountain party on the 3 ist of May. The department of Calvades was sirst inarms against the convention under the command of General Felix wimp-fen ; but before the end of July the infurrection was quieted, after a few flight skirmishes. But the fœdera-lism of the cities of Marfeilles, Lyons, and Toulon, still remained. Lyons was attacked on the 8th os August by the conventional troops. Several actions followed, which were attended with great loss both on the part of the affailants and of the besieged. The city was re-duced almost to ruins ; but it held out during the whole month of September. The besieging General Kellerman was removed from his command, on account of his supposed inactivity ; and the city surrendered on the 8th of October to General Doppet, a man who had lately been a phylieian. Such was the rage of party zeal at this time, that the walls and public buildings of Lyons were ordered to be destroyed, and its name changed to that of
Ville Affranchie.
Many hundreds of its citizens were dragged to the scaffold 011 account of their alleged treasonable resiftance to the convention. The victorious party, wearied by the flow operation of the
guillotine,
at last destroyed their prisoners in multitudes, by firing grape-shot upon them. Such indeed was the unrelenting character of the Mountain at this time, not only here but through the whole republic, that tliey tliemselves pretended not to excuse it, but declared that terror was with them
the order of the day.
In the end of July General Cartaux was sent against Marfeilles. In the beginning of August he gained some succeffes over the advanced fœderalift troops. On the 24th he took the town of Aix, and the Marsellois
submitted. But the leading people os the important town and harbour of Toulon entered into a negociation, and submitted to the British admiral Lord Hood, under condition that he should preserve as a depostt the town and shipping for Louis XVII. and under the sti-pulation that he should affist in restoring the constitu-tion of 1789. The siege of Toulon was commenced by General Cartaux in the beginning of September. It continued without much vigour during that and the whole of the succeeding month. Neapolitan, Spanish, and English troops, were brought by sea to affist in its defence. In the beginning of November, General Cartaux was removed to tlie command of tlie army in Italy, and General Dugommier succeeded him. General O’ Hara arrived with reinforcements from Gibraltar, and took upon him the command of tlie town, under a commiffion from his Britannic majesty. On the 30th of November, the garrison made
a
powerful sally to destroy some batteries tliat were erecting upon heights which commanded tlie city. The French were surprised, and the allies succeeded completely in tlieir object; but, elated by the facility of thcir conquest, the allied troops rushe'd forward in pursuit of the flying enemy, contrary to their orders, and were unexpected-ly met by a strong French force tliat was drawn out to protect the fugitives. General O’Hara now came from the city to endeavour to bring off liis troops with regularity. He was wounded in tlie arm and taken prisoner. Ί he total loss of tlie allies in this affair was estimated at nearly one thousand men. Tlie French liad now mustered in full force around Toulon, and prepared for tlie attack. It was begun on tlie 19th of December in the morning, and was chiefly directed against Fort Mulgrave, defended by the British. This fort was protected by an entrenched camp, 13 pieces of cannon, 36 and 24 pounders, &c. 5 mortars, and 3000 troops. Such was the ardour of affault, that it was carried in an hour, and the whole garrison was destroyed or taken. The allies now found it impoffible to defend the place ; and in the course of the day embarked tlieir troops, after having set on sire tlie arsenal and ships. A scene of confuiion here ensued, such as has not been known in the history of modern wars. Crowds of people of every rank, age, and sex, hurried on board the ships, to avoid the vengeance of their enraged countrymen. Some of the inhabitants began to sire upon their late allies ; others in despair were seen plunging into the sea, making a vain effort to reach the ships ; or putting an end at once to their own existence upon the shore. Thirty-one ships of the line were sound by the British at Toulon; thirteen were left behind; ten were burnt; four had been previously sent to the French ports of Brest and Rochefort, with 5000 republicans who could not be trusted ; and Great Britain finally obtained by this expedition three ships of the line and sive fri-gates.
On the side of Spain the war produced nothing of importance ; and in the mountainous country of Piedmont it went on slowly. Nice and Chamberry were stili retained by the French ; but more terrible scenes were acting in other quarters. In La Vendee a most bloody war was persisted in by the royalists. In that quarter of tlie country the language of the reff of France is little understood. Tlie people were superstitious, and had acquired little idea of the new opinions that had
lately been propagated ln the rest of the empire.
They
were chiefly headed by priests, and regarded their cause as a religious one. Their mode of warfare usually was, to go on in their ordinary occupations as peaceable citizens, and suddenly to assemble in immense bands, insomuch that at one time they were said to amount to 150,000 men. They besieged Nantz and the city of Orleans, and even Paris itsels was not thought altoge-ther safe fiom their enterprises. The war was inconceivably bloody. Neither party gave quarter ; and La Vendee proved a dreadful drain to the population of France. On the 28th of June, the conventional general Biron drove the royalists from Lucon ; and Nantz was relieved by general Beyffer. After some success, general Westerman was surprised by them, and compelled to retreat to Parthenay. In tlie beginning of August the royalists were defeated by general Roffig-nol ; but on the 10th of that month, under Charette their commander in chief, they again attacked Nantz, but suffered a repulse. It would be tedious to give
a 
minute detail of this obscure but cruel war. The roy-alists were often defeated and seemingly dispersed, but as often arose in crowds around the astonished re-publicans. At last, however, about the middle of Oc-tober, they were completely defeated, driven from La Vendée, and forced to divide into separate bodies. One of these threw itself into the isiand of Noirmoutier, where they were subdued ; another took the road of Maine and Brittany, where they struggled for some time, against their enemies, and were at 'sast cut to pieces or dispersed.
The royalists had long expected affistance from England; and an armament under the earlof Moira was actual-ly fitted out for that service, but it did not arrive till too late, and returned home without attempting a landing. —The Mountain party always disgraced their succeffes by dreadful cruelties. Humanity is shocked, and histo-ry would almost ceafe to obtain credit, were we to state in detail the unrelenting cruelties which were exercised against the unfortunate royalists, chiefly by Carrier, a deputy from the convention, sent into this quarter with unlimited powers. Multitudes of prisoners were crowded on board veffels in the Loire, aster which the veffels were sunk. No age nor sex was spared ; and thefe executions were performed with every circumstance of wanton barbarity and insult.
On the side of the Rhine a great variety of events occurred during the months of August and September. Several engagements at sirst took place, in which the French were, upon the whole, successful. In Septem-ber, however, Landau was invested by the combined powers ; and it was refolved to make every poffible ef-smt to drive the French from the strong lines of weis-sembourg, on the river Lauter. On the 13th of Oc-tober, the Austrian general wurmser made a grand attack upon thefe lines. s'he French fay that their generals betrayed them, and suffered the lines to be taken almost without reslstance. The general of the al-lies confeffed that the lines might have held out for several days. The French retreated to Hagenau, from wliicli they were driven on tlie 18th ; and suffered two other defeats on the 25th and 27th. Some of the principal citizens of Strashourg now fent a private deputa-tion to general wurmser, offering to surrender the town, to be preserved as a deposit to be restored to
Louis XVII. General wurmser
resused
to accept of it upon these terms, insisting upon an abfolute surren-der to his Imperial Majesty. In consequence os the delay occasioned by disagreement, the negociation was discovered, and the citizens of Strashourg engaged in the plot wererseized by St Just and Lebas, commiffion-ers from the ^convention, and brought to the scaffold. Prodigious efforts were now made by tbe French to recover their ground in this quarter. General Irem-bert was shot at the head of the army on the 9th of November, upon a charge, probably ill-founded, of treachery in the affair of the lines of weissembourg, On tlie 14th, however, Fort Louis was taken by tlie allies, not without suspicion of treachery in tlie governor. But here the success of general wurmser might be said to terminate. On tbe 2ist tlie republican ar-my drove back tlie Austrians, and penetrated almost to Hagenau. An army from tlie Moselle now advanced to co-operate with tlie army of tlie Rhine. On tlie 1 7th the Pruffians were defeated near Sarhruck. Next day tlieir camp at Bliescastel was stormed, and the Frencli advanced to Deux Ponts. On the 29th and 30th tbe Frencli were repulsed witli great loss in two violent attacks made on the duke of Brtinswick near Lautern. But it now appeared that tlie French had come into tlie field witli a determination to conquer whatever it might cost. Every day was a day of battle, and torrents of blood were shed on both sides. The allies had the advantage of poffeffing the ground, wliicli, in that quarter, at such a late seafon of tlie year, is very strong on account of its inequalities and moraffes. In military skill, the French officers and those of the allies were perhaps nearly equal ; but the French army was by sar the most numerous ; and although not a match in point of discipline, yet it derived no small superiority from the enthusiasm with which the troops were animated. On the 8tli of December, under the command of general Pichegru, the French carried the redoubts which covered Hagenau by means of the bayonet.
Tliis modern instrument of destruction, against whicli no desensive weapon is employed, is always most success-ful in the hands of the most intrepid ; and it was now a dreadful engine in the hands of French enthusiasm.— The
sinest
troops that ever Europe produced were unable to withstand the fury of the republicans, which seemed only to increase in proportion to the multitude of companions that they lost. On the 22d the allies were driven with immense siaugliter from Hagenau, not-withstanding tlie iinrnense works they liad thrown up for their defence. The entrenchments on tlie heights of Reishoffen, Jaudershoffen, &C. were considered as more impregnable than those of Jemappe. They were stormed by the army of the Moselle and the Rhine, under generals Hoche and Pichegru. On the 23d and 24th, die allies were pursued to the heights of wrotte. On the 26th, the entrenchments there were forced by tlie bayonet, after a desperate conflict. O11 the 27th, the republican army arrived at weiffembourg in tri-umph. General wurmser retreated across the Rhine, and the duke of Brunswick hastily fell back to cover Mentz. The blockade of Landau, which had lasted four months, was raised. Fort Louis was evsffcuated by the allies, and Kaiserssatern, Germersheim, and Spires, submitted to the French.—During this last 
month of the year 1793, the loss of men on both
sideg
in this quarter was immense, and unexampled in the history of modern war. It is even said that it might amount to more than 70,000 or 80,000 men.
Thus far we have attended to the military affairs of
the
republic for some time past. Very violent efforts were iu the mean time made at Paris by the new admi-nistration, established under the auspices of the Jacobin club, and of the party called the
Mountain.
The new republican constitution had been presented to the people in the primary affemblies, and accepted. The busmess, therefore, for which the convention was called toge-ther, that of forming a constitution for France, was at an end ; and it
was
proposed that they should diffolve themselves, and order a new legissative body to as-semble, according to the rules prescribed by that con-stitution. This was, no doubt, the regular mode of procedure ; but the ruling party considered it as hazardous to convene a new assembly, poffeffing only limited powers, in the present distracted state of the country. It was indeed obvious, that France at this time stood in need of a dictatorship, or of a government poffeffed of more absolute authority than can be enjoyed by one that acts, or even pretends to act, upon the moderate principles of freedom. It was therefore determined that the convention should remain undiffolved till the end of the war ; and that a
revolutionary
government, to be conducted by its members, should be established, with uncontrouled powers. Committees of its own body were selected for the purpose of conducting every department of business. The chief of these committees was called the
committee of public safety.
It super-intended all the rest, and gave to the administration of France all the secrecy and dispatch which have been accounted peculiar to a military government, together with a. combination of skill and energy hitherto un-known among mankind. A correspondence was kept up with all the Jacobin clubs throughout tlie kingdom. Commiffioners from the convention were sent into all quarters, with unlimited authority over every order of persons. Thus a government poffeffed of infinite vigilance, and more absolute and tyrannical than that of any single despot, was established ; and tlie whole transactions and resources of the state were known to the rulers. On the 23d of August, Barrere, in name of the committee of public sasety, procured the celebrated decree to be paffed for placing the whole French nation in a
fate of requiftion
for the public service. “ From this moment (says the decree) till that when all enemies shall have been driven from the territory of the republic, all Frenchmen shall be in perma-nent readiness sor the service os tlie army. The young men shall march to the combat ; the married men shast forge arms, and transport the provisions ; tlie women shall make tents and clothes, and attend in tlie hospitals ; the children shall make lint os old linen ; tlie old men shall cause themselves to be carried to the public squares, to excite the courage of tlie warriors, to pleach hatred against the enemies of the republic; tlie cellars sllall be washed to procure saltpetre ; tbe saddle-horses shall be given up to complete the cavalry ; the unmarried citizens, srom the age os 18 to 25, shall march sirst, and none shall send a substitute ; every battalion shall liave a banner, with this inscription,
The French nation risen agaiofl tyrants.”
The decree also regulates 
the mode of organizing this mass.
A dccree more ty
rannical than this was never made by an eastern despot ; and when it was sirst published, foreigners were at a loss whether to regard it as a sublime effort of a power-ful government, or as a wild project whicli could pro-duce nothing but confusion. The effects of it, how-ever, have been truly terrible, we have already men-tioned some of them in the bloody contest wliicli oc-curred upon the Rhine, and Europe was foon destined to bear witness to still more extraordinary events.
In the end of July, general Custine was brought to trial, and executed, in consequence of a variety of ac-cusations of infidelity to his trust and disrespect to the convention. The queen was next brought to trial be-fore the revolutionary tribunal, on the 15th of Octo-ber. Tlie charges against her were very various ; but the chief tendency of them was to prove that she had always been hostile to the revolution, and liad excited all the efforts that had been made by the court against it. On the 16th of October, this beautiful woman, whom fortune once placed so high, ended her days on a scaffold, after a mock trial, in which no regard was paid either to justice or decency. She behaved with much dignity and composure, and appeared deeply impressed with a fense of religion. The members of the 1 convention who had been at the head of the Girondist party, and had either been detained in prison since the 3ist of May, or seized in the departments to which they had retired, were afterwards brought to trial. On the 30th of October, 2 1 of them were executed, viz. Briffot, Vergniaud, Gensonne, Duprat, Lehardi, D ucos, Fonfrede, Boileau, Gardien, Duchatel, Sillery, Fauchet, Dufriche, Duperret, La Source, Carra, Beau-vais, Mainville, Antiboul, Vigée, and Lacaze. Seventy-one were still detained in confinement. The duke of Orleans was afterwards condemned, on a cliarge of having aspired to the sovereignty from the beginning of the revolution. His execution gave satisfaction to all parties. His vote for the punishment of death upon the trial of the late king had done him little honour even in the opinion of the Mountain, and had rendered him odious to all the rest of mankind.
The executions of persons of all ranks, particularly of priests and nobles, became now so common, that it would be in vain to attempt to give any detail of them. Every person brought before the revolutionary tribunal was condemned as a matter of course. The Jacobins seemed insatiable in their thirst after blood, and the people at large appeared to regard their conduct with unaccountable indifference.
: when the human mind is once roused, its activity extends to every object. At this time a new table of weights and measures was established by the convention, in which the decimal arithmetic alone is employed. The court of Spain had the liberality, notwith-standing the war, to suffer M. Mechain to proceed in his operations for measuring a degree of the meridian in that country. He carried on his series of triangles from Barcelona to Perpignan ; and from this place the mensuration was continued to Paris. M. de Lambre, and his pupil M. le Francois, also measured a degree of latitude in the vicinity of the metropolis. In all, 12 degrees of the meridian were measured ; of which the mean is 57027 toifes, and by this the universal standard of measure is calculated. M. M. de Borde and Caffini determined the length
of a pendulum that swings se
conds,
in vacuo
and in a mean temperature at Paris, to be 3 seet and 8,06 lines. Μ. M. Lavoisier and Hauy sound that a cubic foot of distilled water at the freezing point weighs
in vacuo
70 pounds and 60 gros French weight, we shall infert a table of the measures and weights now established.
Long Measure.
Metres.    „    French Toiffs.
10,000,000 = a quadrant of the meri
dian which is the prin-ciple on which the new measure is founded - 5132430
100,000 = an hundredth part of a quadrant, ordecimal de-gree of the meridian
-    5I 3^4-
I
ooo = a
milliare,
or mile -    513
100 = a stadium") Agrarian £51-3243
10 = a perch
J
measure, £ 5.13243
Feet. Inch. Lines.
I = a
metre,
or rectilineal
unit -    -    
30    
11.44
vg· or O.i = a
decimetre,
or palm o 3    8.344.
or 0.01 = a
centremetre,
or di-
git -    00    4.434
or 0.001 = a
millemetre
-    00
Superficial Measure.
Sq. Metres.    Sq. Feet.
ΐο,οοο = an
are,
or supersicial unit, being
a fquare the fide of which is 100
metres in length    -    -    94831
1000 a
declare,
or tenth of an
are ;
a superficies an hundred metres long, and ten broad    -    9483.1
ioo = a centiare    -    -    
94.8.31
Measures of Capacity.
Cub. decimetres    Paris Pints. Paris Buff.
1000 = the cubic
metre,
or cade
or tun -    -    1051£    78.9
IOO
= dedicade,
or
Jeder
   Ιθ5τ 7.89
IO
= centicade,
or bushel    ιο^·    .789
I
= cubic
decimetre,
or pint    
lT ’g·    
.0789
Cub. decimetres    e 'l{> jis '    Γ .
of water.    < French Pounds.
1000 = the weight of a cubic
metre,
or
cade of water, is called a
bar
or
milder
   -    2044.4
100 = Vo of a
har ·,
or
decibar,
or quintal 204.44 10 — of a
bar,
or centibar, or
decal
20.444
lb. oz. gros, grains.
I
= the weight of a cu-bic decimetre of wa-ter is called a
grave,
or pound -    
2
    8    
5    49
.1 = τ’θ of a
grave,
or
decigrave,
or ounce    o 3 2    12. t
.01 = T 4n °s
grave,
or
centigrave, or dram o ö 2 44.4t
ι,οοί = the weight of a cubic
centimetre
of wa-ter, is named a
gravet,
or maille - ο ο o 18.841
.0001 =
decigravet,
or grain ooo 1.8841 .0000
ί
= centigravet -
ooo 0.18841
Ά
piece os filver coin weighing
a
centigrave,
and
a
franc
of silver, according to the former standard will be worth 40 fols
iof
deniers. The
milliare,
or thou-sand ffjf/rij, is substituted for the mile ; and the
are, 
■for the arpent in land-ineasure. The latter two are -to each other as 49 to
25.
The astronomical circles •with which M. M. de Borda and Caffini made the obser-"vations, are divided according to this plan. The qua-•drant contains 1O0 degrees, and each degree 100 mi-' nutes. Hence the minute of a great circle on our globe is equal to a
miUiare,
or new French mile. If, for the reduction of -this meafure, we estimate the Paris toise, according to the comparison made with the standard kept in the Royal Society of London, at 6.3925 English feet, the
milliare
or minute will be equal to 1093.f?33 yai ^s > an st the
metre
3.280899 feet.
. At the same period a new kalendar was formed.— By it the year is made
to
begin with the autumnal ‘equinox, and is divided into 12 months. Thesc are ‘called Vindemaire, Brumaire, Frimaire, Nivos, Ventos, •Pluvios, Germinal, Frorial, Praireal, Meffidor, Fervi-’dor, and Fructider. The months consist of 30 days each, and are divided into three decades. The days of oach decade are known by the names of Primidi, Duo-"di, Tridi, &c. to Decadi ; and the day of rest is ap-"pointed for every tenth day, instead of the seventh. The day (which begins at midnight) is distributed into tell parts, and these are decimally divided and subdivided. Five supernumerary days are added every year after the 30th of Fructidor. To these is given the ab-surd appellation of
Sans Cullottides,
a word borrowed from a term of reproach
(fans cullotte),
which had often been bestowed on the republican party from the jneannefs of their rank and fortune ; but which that party now attempted to render honourable and popular. The childish folly of this innovation has struck every person with surprize, as it can serve no good purpose whatever. It is a wonderful instance of the way-wardness of the human mind, which can occupy itself one moment with deeds of savage barbarity, and the next with a matter so unimportant as the artificial division of time.
The religion of France had been gradually Iofing its influence ; and on the 7th of November, Gobet bishop of Paris, along with a great multitude of other eccle-siastics, came into the hall of the convention, and solemn-ly refigned their functions and renounced the Christian religion. All the clergymen, whether Protestant or Catholic, that were members of the convention, followed this example, excepting only Gregoire, whom we formerly mentioned as having been one of the first priests that joined the
Tiers Fiat
after the meeting of the States General. He had the courage to profefs himself 
a
Christian, although he faid that the emoluments of his bishoprsc were at the service of the republic, with the acclamations of the convention, it was decreed that the only French deities hereafter should be Liberty, Equality, Reason, &c. and they would seem to have consecrated these as a kind of new objects of worship.— what political purpofe the leaders in the convention intended to serve by this proceeding does pot clearly ap-pear ; unlefs, perhaps, their object was to render the French manners and modes of thinking so completely new', that it should never be in their power to return to the state from which they had just emerged, or to unite
in intercourse with the other nations of Europe.
The
populace, however, could not at once relinquish en-tirely the religion of their fathers. The Commune os Paris ordered the churches to be shut up, but the Convention found it necessary to annul this order ; and Robefpierre gained no smali degree of popularity by supporting the liberty of religious worship on this occasion. Hebert and Fabre d’Eglantine, who led the op-posite party, hastened their own fall by this ill-judged contempt of popular opinion.
For, now that the republic saw itself fuccefsful in all quarters, when the Mountain party and the Jacobins had no rival at home, and accounted themselves in no immediate danger from abroad, they began to split into factions, and the fiercest jealousies arose. The Jacobin Club was the usual place in which their contests were carried 011 ; and at this time Robefpierre acted the part of a mediator between all parties. Fie attempted with great art to turn their attention from private animosities to public affairs. He spread a report that an invasion of Great Britain was fpeedily to take place. He therefore proposed that the Jacobin Club should set themselves to work to diseover the vulnerable parts of the Brstish constitutson and government. They did so : They made speeches, and wrote essays without number. And in this way was the most fierce and turbulent band of men that ever perhaps existed in any country occupied and amused for a very considerable time, what is no less singular, a great number of British subjects favoured the plans of these reforming Atheists, and, under the fpecious appellation of the
Friends of the People, 
acted in concert with the French Jacobins.
The winter passed away in tolerable qusetness, and no military enterprise was undertaken either by the allies or by the French. On the ist of February, Barrere asserted in the Convention that the confederate powers were willing
provifionally
to acknowledge the French republic, to consent to a cessation oi hostilities for two years, at the end of which a lasting peace should be ratified by the French people. But this proposal the Convention declared itself determined to reject, as affording to the other nations of Europe the means of undermining their new government. In the mean time, the revolutionary government was gradually becoming ' more vigorous. Thirty committees of the Convention managed the whole business of the state, without sha-ring^much of the direct executive government, which rested in the committee of public fafety. These diffe-rent committees were engaged in the utmost variety of objects. The ruling party had no competitors for power, without confusion or opposition, therefore, the most extensive plans were rapidly carried into effect. The Convention was little more than a court in which
every project was solemnly registered. In the same ses-iion 30 decrees would sometimes be passed upon objects the most widely different. The finances were under one committee, at the head of which was Cambon.— This committee found resources for the most lavish ex-penditure. The affignats were received as money throughout the state ; and thus a paper mill was said to have become more valuable than a mine of gold. Their credit was supported by an arbitrary law regulating the 
maximum
or highest price of all provisions, and by the immense mass of wealth which had come into the hands 
of
the Convention by seizing the church lands, and
by confiscating the property of royalists,
emigrants, and
perfons condemned by the revolutionary tribunal. So unequally had property been divided under the ancient government, that by means of these consiscations about seven-tenths of the national territory was fupposed to be in the hands of the public. To this was added the plunder of the churches, consisting of gold and silvcr faints, and utensils employed in divine worship, along wtth other articles of iess value ; among which may be mentioned the innumerable church bells, which were regarded as sufficient for the manufacture of 15,000 pieces of cannon. These refources formed a mafs of property such as never was possessed by any government.
Other committees were engaged in very different objects. Highways were constructed, and canals planned and cut throughout the country. Immense manufacto-ries of arms were everywhere established. At Paris alone 1100 muskets were daily fabricated, and ioo pieces of cannon cast every month. Public sehools were affiduously instituted, and the French language taught in its purity from the Pyrenees to the Rhine. The French Convention poffeffed immense resources, and they did not hesitate to lavish them upon their schemes. Every science and every art was called upon sor aid, and the most accomplished men in every profeffion were employed in giving splendour to their country. The chemists, in particular, gave effential aid by the facility with wliicli they supplied materials for the manufacture of gun-powder ; and in return for their services, Lavoisier, the greatest of them, suffered death by a most iniquitous sentence. Not fewer than 200 new dramatic performances were produced in less than two years ; the object of which was to attach the people to the present order of things. The vigour with which the committees of subsistence exerted themselves is particularly to be remarked. As all Europe was at war with France, and as England, Holland, and Spain, the three maritime powers, were engaged in the contest, it had been thought not impoffible to reduce France to great distress by famine, especially as it was imagined that the country had not resources to supply its immense population. But the present leaders of that country acted with the policy of a besteged garrison. They seized upon the whole provisions in the country, and carried them to public granaries. They registered the cattle, and made their owners responsible for them.— They provided tlie armies abundantly, and, as the people were accurately numbered, they dealt out in every district, on stated occastons, what was abfolutely neceffary sor subsistence, and no more. To ali this the peo-ple submitted
y
and indeed, throughout the whole of the mixed scenes of this revolution, the calm judgment 
of
the historian is not a little perplexed. WC cannot avoid admiring the patience with which the people at Iarge endured every hardshsp that was represented as wecessary to the common cause, and the enthusiastic energy with which they lavished their blood in defence 
of
the independence os their country. At the same time, we must regard with indignation a»d disgust the worthlefs intrigues by means of which the sanguinary factions in the Convention and the capital alternately maffacred each other.
During the winter the dissensions of the Jacobins ftill increased. They were divided into two clubs,
of 
which the new one assembled at a hall whieh once be
longed
to the Cordeliers- The leaders
of
it were He-
bert, Ronsin, Vhtcent, and others ; but the
old
.society retained its ascendency, and Robefpierre was now <Je-cidedly its leader. This extraordinary man had grada-ally accumulated in his own person the considence of the people and the direction of the government. As the committees were above the Convention, which was become little more than a silent court of record, so the committee of public sasety was above the other commit-tees. Robefpierre was the leader of this ruling com. msttee. Barrere, St Just, Couthon, and others of its members, only acted a secondary part. They laboured in the businefs of the state, but the radical power was with Robefpierre. He surrounded the members of the Convention with spies. He was jealous and implacable, and set no bounds to the shedding of blood. On the 25th of March he brought to trial the following active Jacobins, who were condemned and executed on thc following day : Hebert, Ronsin, Momoro, Vincent, Du Croquet, Kocq, Col. Laumur, M. M. Bourgeois, Mazuel, La Boureau, Ancard, Le Clerc, Proly, Des-sieux, Anacharsis Cloots, Pereira, Florent Armand, Descombes, and Dcbuison. Not satissied with this, on thc 2d of April he brought to trial nine of those who had once been his most vigorous associates, Danton* Fabre d’Eglantine, Bazire, Chabot, Philippeaux, Camille D'esmoulins, Lacroix, Delaunay d’Angers, He-rault de Sechelles, who, along with westerqian, were executed on the evening of the 5th.
Still, however, the preparations for the ensuing campaign were proceeding with unabated vigour. 'The committee for military affairs, at the head of which were Carnot, La Fitte, d’Aniffi, and others, was bufy in arranging along the frontiers the immense force which the requisitson had called forth. Plans of attack and defence were made out by this committee; and when approved by the committee of public safety they were fent to the generals to be executed. On the other side, the allies were making powerful preparations for another attempt to subjugate France. The Emperor himself took the held at the head of the armies in the Nether-lands. The plan of the campaign is said to have been, formed by the Austrias Colonel Mack, west Flanders was to be protected by a strong body of men ; the main army was to penetrate to Landrecies, and getting within the line of French frontier towns, it was to cut them off from the interior by covering the country from Maubeuge to the sea. The plan was
bold.
It belongs to military men to judge whether this was not its only merit, when attempting to put it in execution, the allies must have been ill informed of the immense force which the French were collecting against therm Even the town of Lisse alone, which is capable of containing a numerous army within its walls, and which was to be left in their rear, should have seerned an insurmountable objection to the plan.
On the 16th of April the Austrian, British, and Dutch armies affembled on the heights above Cateau, and were reviewed by the emperor. On the following day they advanced in eight columne against the French, drove in tlieir whole posts, and* penetrated beyond Lan-drecies which place the French attempted to. relieve, but without succefs. The allied army now amounted to 187,000 men, who were disposed in the following manner; 15,000 Dutch and
15,000
Austrians, under 
the
prince of Orange and general. Latour, formed the
stegc of L
andre cies; 15,000 British and 15,000 Austri-ans, commanded by the duke
of
York and general Otto, encamped towards Cambray. The emperor and the prince of Saxe-Cobourg, at the head of 60,000 Auf-trians, were advanced as sar as Guise ; 12,000 Heffi-ans and Austrians under general worms were stationed near Douay and Bouchain ; Count Kaunitz with 15,000 Austrians defended the Sambre and the quarter near Maubeuge ; and, lastly, general Clairfait, with 40,000 Austrians and Hanoverians, protected Flanders from Tournay to the sea ; 60,000 Pruffians, for whom a subsidy had been paid by Great Britain, were expect-ed in addition to thefe, but they never arrived.
The French now commenced their active operations. On the morning of the 26th of April they attacked the duke of York near Cateau in great force. After a severe conflict they were repulsed, and their general Chapuy was taken prisoner. At the same time they attacked the troops under his Imperial majesty, but were there also repulsed in a similar manner; losing in all 57 pieces of cannon. On the same day, however, general Pichegru advanced from Lisse, attacked and defeated general Clairfait, took 32 pieces of cannon; and, in the conrse of a few days, made himself master of Warwick, Menin, and Courtray, On the 29th of April, the garrifon of Landrecies surrendered to the allies. when this event was known in the convention,
. it excited a considerable degree of alarm. It was, however, the last effectual piece of success enjoyed by the allies during this disastrous campaign. General Clairfait was again completely defeated by Pichegru in a general engagement ; and it was found neceffary to send the duke of York to his affistance. This move-ment was no doubt unavoidable ; but the effect of it was, that it split down tlie allied army into a variety of portions, capable of carrying on a defultory war-fare, but unfit sor the vigorous objects of conquest. On tlie 10th the duke of York was attacked near Tournay by a body of tlie enemy, whom he repulsed ; but he was unable to join Clairfast, upon whose de-struction the French were chiefly bent : for at thc same time that the duke of York was occupied by the attack upon himseff, Pichegru fell upon Clairfait with filch irresistible impetuosity, that he was compelled to retreat in confusion, and a part of his army appears to have fled to the neighbourhood of Bruges, while Pichegru was thus advancing successsully in west Flan-dere, general jourdan advanced in East Elanders from Maubeuge, crossed the Sambre, and forced general Kaunitz to retreat. On the 18th, however, general Kaunitz succeedfed in repuising the enemy in his turn, and they re-crossed the Sambre with considerable loss.
The allies now found that no progress could be made in France while general Pichegru was advancing succefs-fully and occupying weft Flanders in their rear. The emperor, therefore, withdrew the greater part of his army to the neighbourhood of Tournay, and resolved to make a grand effort to cut oss the communication between Courtray and Lisle, thus to prevent complete-ly the retreat of Pichegru. On the night of the 16th, the army moved forwards in five columns for this purpose. Clairfait was at the same time directed, to crofs the Lys, to effect
a
general junction, if poffible, and complete the plan. The attempt during that evening 
Äeemed to
promise success ; but,
in the course of ncxt
day, the division under the duke of York
was
Over-powered by numbers and defeated. The progress of the rest of the columns was stopped, and Clairfast completely defeated. In the confusion of the day, when attempting to rally the different parts of the di-vision which he commanded, the duke of York was separated from his own troops
by
a party of the enemy’s cavalry, and only escaped being made prisoner by the swiftnefs of his horse. The plan of the allies being thus frustrated, their army withdrew to the neighbour« hood of Tournay.
Pichegru speedily attempted to retaliate against the allies. On the 22d of May he brought down at day break his whole force against them. The attack was commenced by a heavy sire of artillery, and all the ad-vanced posts were forced. The engagement soon became general; the attacks were repeatedly renewed on both sides ; the whole day was spent in a succes-sion of obstinate battles. All that military /kill could do was performed on both sides. The French and the allied soldiers fought with equal courage and equal discipline. At nine o’clock in tlie evening the French at last reluctantly withdrew from the attack.
Ί he day on which a vanquished enemy flies from the field is not âlways that on which the victory is won. In this engagement the French were unsuccesssul in their immediate objects; but the weight of their sire, their steady difcipline, and their violent obstinacy of attack, raised their military character high in the esti-mation of the officers and soldiers of the allied army. It was soon perceived, that in addition to these they possessed other advantages. Their numbers were im-mense ; they implicitly obeyed their generals ; who,
being men newly raised from the rank of subalterns, as implicitly submitted to the directions of the com-mitte of public safety. A combination of efforts was thus produced whose operation vvas not retarded by divided counsels. On the other side, the numbers of the allies were daily declining ; them leaders were independent princes or powerful men, whose sentiments and interests were often very hostile to each other, and their exertions were consequently disunited.
Ou the 24th the French again crossed the Sambre, but were driven back with much loss. On the 27th an attempt was made to besiege Charleroi, but the prince of Orange on the 3d of June compelled them to raise the liege. On the 12th a similar attempt was made, and they were again repulsed. In weft Flanders, however, Pichegru was sufficiently slrong to com* mence the liege of Ypres. He was soon attacked by general Clairfait for the purpose of relieving it, but without success.—Ypres was garrifoned by 7000 men ; reinforcements were therefore daily sent from the grand army to Clairfait for the purpose of relieving it. It is unnecessary to, mention the bloody contests su which that unfortunate general was daily engaged with thc French ; it is fufficient to say, that they were uni-forraly unsuccessful, and were the means of wafting, in
a
great degree, the armies of the allies. Ypres held out till the 17th of June, when it capitulated: and such was the difcipline of the French army at this time, that no notice could be obtained, for several days, of that event. In consequence of it and of other events, the duke of York found it neceffary to retreat to Oude-narde j for Jourdan, after ftorming the Austrian camp
cs Betignies,
now advanced with fnch strength upon ’ Charleroi in the east that its immediate sali was fear-ed. As this would have enabled the two French ar-mies to encircle the whole of Flanders, the prince of Cobourg advanced to its relief. Charleroi furrendered at discretion on the 25th. This circumstance was not known by the prince of Cobourg when he advanced on the 26th to. attack in their entrenchments the army that covered the siege near Fleürus : but the covering army being by this time reinforced by the acceffion of the besieging army, the aliies were repulsed. Jourdan then drew llis men out of their entrenchments ; and, in his turn, attacked the Austrians. Fie was three times re-pulsed, but was at last succesasul : the hffs of the van· quished army is said to have been prodigious ; but no regular accounts of it have been published. The French unquestionably exaggerated their own success, when they said that it amounted to 15,000 men.
The allies now retreated in ali quarters. Nieuport, Ostend, and Bruges, were taken ; and Tournay, Mons, Oudenarde, and Brussels, opened their gates. At this .last place tlie French armies of East and west Flan-ders united. Landrecies, Valenciennes, Condé, and Quesnoy, were fruitleisly left with garrisons in them. The allied troops, evacuating Namur, formed a line from Antwerp to Liege to protect the country behind. The French advanced in full force, and attacked ge-neral Clairfait, cut to pieces half the troops that now remained under him, and broke the line. The ah lies retreated before them. The dtike of York was joined' by some troops under the earl of Moira that with much , difficulty had made their way to him from Ostend ; and with thefe and the Dutch troops he retired to the neighbourhood of Bergen-op-zoom and- Breda for the protection of Holland. The prince of Cobourg eva-cuated Liege, crossed the Mæfe, and placed a garri-son in Maestricht. He soon, however, sent back a part of his troops to the neighbourhood of Tongres ; for here, to the astonishment of all Europe, the French armies made a voluntary pause in their career of vic-tory, and ceased to pursue their retiring foes. Sluys in Dutch Flanders was the only foreign post that they continued to attack, and it surrendered
after a
siege of 21 days.
On the Rhine the war was equally succefsful on the part bf the French. On the lzth, 13th, and 14th of July, repeated engagements were fought ; in which the French enjoyed their usual success. They had nume-rous armies in every quarter.. Their mode of fighting was to make full preparation for aecomplishing their object, and to fight in great bodiea day after day till it was obtained. The Palatinate was thus over-run, and Treves taken, by general Michaud. Flanders and the Palatinate have always been accounted the. granaries of Germany ; and both of them, at the commencement of the harvest, now fell into the hands of the French.
During the course of this summer Corsica was sub-dued by Great Britain and the whole of the French west India Issands, excepting a part of Gaadaulope, yielded to
the
British troops under the command os Sir Charles Grey and Sir John Jarvis. On
the
first os June the British fleet, under the command os earl Howe, gained a most splendid victory over the French fleet to the westward of Ushant. The French committee of 
sasety were known to have puchased in America im
mense quantities of grain and other stores. Thefe were embarked on board 160 fail of merchantmen, convoyed by six sail os the line.. Lord Howe failed to intercept this valuable convoy. The French fleet failed at the fame time to protect it... On the morning os the 28th os May the fleets came in sight of each other. The British admiral had previoussy dispatched ssx ships of the line under admiral Montague to intercept the French convoy, while he should engage and detain the grand fleet, 's'he French dispatched eight, sail to defeat this attempt.. In the course os the 29th Lord Howe got to windward of the French fleet. His force was 25, and theirs was 2-6, sail os the line. The following day he bore dôwn upon them, and broke their line. Tlie engagement was one os the severest' ever fought., Tlie French admiral, in less than an hour aster the close action commenced in the centre, crouded off with 12 os his ships.. The British fleet was so much disabled, or separated, that several os the French dis-rnantled ships got away under fails raised on the stump, os their sore-masts. Seven sail os the line, however, re-mained in posseffion· os the British, and two were un-questionably sunk.. In the mean time, admiral Mon-. tague sell in with the French convoy, but it- was now guarded by 14 sail os the line. Äs he could not encounter such a force, he returned home, and it was
safe»-
ly conveyed into port; Thus, by one os thosc contradictions which so often occur in human affairs, the British fleet was victorious, and the French were lest in some measure mailers os the sea. As this engagement however testisied that tlre British seamen had not lost, their ancient superiority on their own element, the nation regarded the present victory as a pledge os its independence, and very general rejoicings took place in consequence of it.
In the mean time, the revolutionary system of go-vernment in the hands of committees of the convention at Paris, and. of committees of the- popular societies throughout the country, was arrived at its highest perfection, and proceeded without opposition in its severe and sanguinary measures-
On .the 10th of May Madame Elizabeth, sister of thc late king, was sacrisiced by it in consequence of a decree of the revolutionary tribunal. Multitudes of others of every rank and sex were daily sacrificed in a simssar manner; the rich in particular were the great, objects of persecution, because the confifcation of their property added to the strength of the ruling powers. But neither were the poor safe from the bloody vigilance of this new and singular government. By the different executions Robefpierre had contrived to destroy every avowed rival. All the constituted authorities consisted wholly of persons nominated with his approbation ; and as the committees which conducted the business of the state were at his disposal, his will was irresistible throughout the republic. He met witli no opposition in th’e conventien ; sor that body was no longer the turbulent popular assembly which it had once appeared ; it was little more than a name employed to give some fort of respectability to such schemes as were proposed to it.
Amidst this accumulation, however, of secmingly ir-resistible authority, Robefpierre was at the brink of ruin. The whole of the old Girondist party was indeed subdued and silent ; but many members of the conven
tion still remained attached to it. The
party of the
Mountain, by means of whom Robefpierre had risen to power, with little satissaction now found themselves not only difregarded, shut ready at every instant to fall a sacrifice to that system os terror which they had contributed to erect. Even the Jacobins shemselves, though neither timid nor cautious in the shedding of blood, be-gan to murmur when they saw that awful privilege confined exclusively within a few hands, or rather monopolized by an individual. In this, state things remained for some time;, and it appeared how poffible it is for an individual to govern a great nation even while the whole of that nation is hostile to his power. The banishment or imprifonment of all foreigners, which had long been rigoroussy practised, prevents us from poffeffing much accurate information concerning the internal state of France at this period ; but it is certain, that one eircumftance in particular tendëd much to accelerate the fall of Robefpierre.. He had procured a decree to be paffed, authorising the committee of public safety to imprison at its pleasure, and bring to trial, any member os the convention. All the individuals of that body found themselves placed by this decree in the hands os a man wliose severe and suspicious temper they well knew. Still, however, they were so much surrounded’by spies, that it was difficult to form a party or plan os operations ; even the majority os the committee of public sasety were among the number os the discontented, but they dared not to withstand their chief.. At last, on the 25th of July, the convention began to exhibit signs of agita-tion.. It was understood, that in the conrse os a few day# Robefpierre would sacrisice a number os the mem-bers to his suspicions. On the following day the sitting of the convention was still more tempestuous. In a. long speech Robefpierre defended his own conduct against those who had reproached him with aspiring to the dic-tatorfllip of France. He attacked the party whom he styled
Moderates,
as. wishing ,to overturn the revolutionary government^ and to restore the feeble system of the Briffotinesi The result of a long debate was, that Ro-bespierre was apparently victorious, and his speech was-ordered to be printed. On the 27th the convention, appeared ripe for a change : St Just, a member of the committee of public safety, in attempting to defend Robefpierre,. was repeatedly interrupted; and Billaud Varrennes stood forward and enumerated the crimes, and proclaimed the tyranny, of Robefpierre. The speech was received with bursts of applause. Robe-spierre in vain attempted to defend himself ; he was filenced by shouts ©f execration from every part of the hall. Tallien seconded the former speaker in . his ac-cusation. The sitting was declared permanent, and a decree of arrest was paffed against Robefpierre and
a 
younger brother of his, along with St Just, Couthon, and Lebas. These men left the convention, and found? security in the hall of the commune of Paris ; where the municipal officers agreed to protect and stand by them. The tocsin was founded ; the armed force was under their command ; an infurrection was therefore attempted against the convention : but the sections of Paris resused their support. Very few ef the troops· could be collected^ and thefe were, not sirm ; the late tyranny had become odious. The hall of the commune was thereforespeedilysurrounded; and about three o’clock in the morning of the 28th Robefpierre and his affoci
ates were made prisoners.« They had been· outlawed
by the
convention on account of
their reslstance. They were not therefore tried, unleft for the purpose of identifying their persons ; and, in the course of that day, they were executed : 60 of the municipal officers were also executed
for
joining in their rebellion ; and in this way
a
storm passed over, which at one time threatened to involve the French capital in ruin, and silled all Eu-rope with astonishment. Thus also terminated the career of the most extraordinary man that the French revolution had brought forward. His talents were undoubtedly confide rable, and his ambition knew no bounds^ bidding defiance to the ordinary feelings of humanity. Had Dumourier possessed his eoolneis and caution, or had lie posseffed the military talents of Dumourier, the convention would certainly have been overturned, and we shoul'd have seen a second Cromwell on tile throne of his murdered sovereign.
After the fall of Robespierre, the convention exhi-bited no small change of appearance. Instead of that silence which formerly prevailed, all was bustle and noise all accused each other. There was no longer any leader, and there was no formed party. Ί he foimer system of terror was declared to be at an end, and
a 
new system of
moderatism
succeeded. This was carried to as great a height as tile fystem of terror had formerly been ; and all means were taken to render popular the fall of their late tyrant. The committees were or- ■ ganised anew, and their members ordered to be frequently changed. The correspondence between the affiliated Jacobin clubs was prohibited, and at last the Jacobin club itself was abolished. This last event was accomplished with ease ; and that society which had been the great engine of the revolution, was itself without resistance overturned. Seventy-one deputies of the Girondist party, who had been imprifoned since the 31ft of May 1793, were set at liberty. The name of Lyons was restored to it. Some of the agents of Robespierre were punished, particularly the infamous Carrier, whose cruelties in La Vendee we formerly mentioned. Still, however, the convention appeared so little united and fo little decided with regard to objects of the sirst im~ portance, that in all probability they would not have conducted tlie important struggle against the nations of Europe witli more success than the Girondist party had formerly done, if the revolutionary government and the late fystem of terror had not already accumulated in their hands such vast resources, and traced out such a plan of procedure, as rendered it an easy matter to preserve their numerous armies in the train of suc~ cess to which they were now habituated, -
The allies in their retreat had left, strang .garrisons in the French towns which had surrendered to them. These were.Condé, Valenciennes, Quesnoi, and Lan-drecies. They now surrendered. to the republican ar-mies with so little resistance, tliat the conduct of the emperor began to be-considered as ambiguous, and· he was suspected of having entered · into some kind of com-promise with the French. This idea proved erroneous; and as suon as the army which had besieged these towns was able to join the grand army under Pichegru ancl Jourdan, the. operations os the campaign were resumed aster a suspension of almost two months. The French army divided itsels into two bodies. One os these un-» der Jourdan advanced against General Clairsait, who-had
succeeded the prince of Cobourg in the command
in the neighbourhood of Maestricht.
On
the 15th
of
September the French attacked the whole Austrian posts in a.k extent of sive leagues from Liege to Mae* stricht. On that and the following day the losses were nearly equal. On the 17th the French with 50 pieces of cannon attacked General Kray in his entrenched camp before Maestrscht. M. de Kray was already re-tiring when General Clairfait arrived with a strong
re-
inforcement, and after a severe combat the French were once more compelled to retire. On the 18th the French renewed the attack with tenfold fury upon every part of the Austrian line, and the whole was compelled to fly to the neighbourhood of Aix-la-Cha-pelle. General Clairsait now chose a strong pofition on the banks
of
the Roer, where he even declared it to be his wish that he might be attacked. But by this time the spirit of his army was humbled, desertions became numerous, and the want of discipline was extreme. On tlie ist of October the French crossed the Maese and the Roer, and attacked the whole Austrian posts from Ruremond down to Juliers. After a bloody engagement, the brave and active, though unfortunate, General Clairfait was compelled hastily to cross the Rhine, with the lofs of 10 or 1 2,000 men. The French general did not attempt to cross that river, but one detachment of his army took possession of Coblentz, while others laid close siege to Venlo and Maestricht, which soon surrendered.
The division of the French army, in the mean time, under General Pichegru came down upon Holland, and attacked the allied army under the duke of York between Bois-leduc and Grave. They forced the advanced post of Boxtel. Lieutenant-general Abercromby was sent to attempt to recover this post on the 15th of September, but he found the French in such force that he was obliged to retreat. Indeed tlie French were difcovered to
be
no lefs than 80,000 strong in that neighbourhood. The duke of York was unable to contend against a for-ce so superior, and retired across the Maese with the loss of fomewhat less than 1500 men. Pichegru immediately laid siege to Bois-le-duc. On the 30th of September, Crevecœur was taken, and bois-leduc surrendered in 10 days thereafter. In it 408 French emigrants were taken grisoners ; and these, as well as 700 that had been taken at Nieuportf 500 at Sluys, and 
ι
ico at Valenciennes, were all put to death, agreeably tt> the rigorous law formerly made by the convention. The French now followed the duke of York across the Maese. Lspon this the greater part of the allied army under his royal highness crossed the Rhine and took post at Arnheim. The remaining part of the army sol-lewed soon after, and Nimeguen was occupied by the French on the 7th of November. The duke of Brunfwick was at this time requested to take the command of the allied army, to protect Holland, if poffible. He came to Arnheim forthat purpofe; but after examining the state of things there, he declined the undertaking. The allied troops had now so often fled before their victorious and almost innumerable enemies, they had so often been in want of every necessary, and had been received so ill by the inhabitants of the countries through which they passed, among whom the French cause was extremely popular, that they had lost that regularity of conduct and discipline which alone can 
afford a secure prospect ef Iuccesa in military affaira.
The French, on the
contrary, well received, nbmshdlng in every thing, and proud of fighting in a popular cause, now acted with much order, and submitted to the strictest diseipline. ln addition to all tliese advantages, the French leaders had the dexterity to pejsuade the world that new and unknown arts were employed to give aid to their cause. At this period the
télégraphe
was sirst used sor conveying intelligence from the frontiers to the capital, and from tlie capital to the frontiers. (See Télégraphe). Balloons were also used by the French during this campaign to procure knowledge of the po-sition of the enemy. A11 engineer afcended with the balloon, which was suffered to rise to a great height, but prevented from flying away by a long cord. He made plans of the enemies encampment ; and during an attack he sent down notice of every hostile move-ment. In the affairs of men, and more especially in military tranfactions, opinion is of more importance than reality. The French soldiers confided in their own officers as men possessed of a kind of omniseience, while the allied troops, no doubt, beheld with anxiety a new contrivance employed against them, whose import-ance would be readily magnified by credulity and ignorance. with all these advantages, however, after the capture of Nimeguen, they once more made a halt in their carrier, and abstained from the attack of Holland, which now seemed almost prostrate before them.
while these events occurred in the north, the French arms were fcarcely less successful on the side ef Spain. Bellegarde was taken ; in the western Pyrenees, Fon-tarabia surrendered, and also St Sebastian ; the whole kingdom of Spain seemed panic struck. That feeble government, with an almost impregnable frontier, and the most powerful fortresses, could make little resistance ; and the difficult nature of their country was their only protection. The history of this war is only a history of victories on the part of the French. In the Eastern Pyrenees, on the 17th of November, the French
general
Dugommier was killed in an engagement, in which his army was successful. On the 20th of that month the French again attacked the Spaniards, and routed them by meansof the bayonet, without firing a single musket-shot. Tents, baggage, and cannon, for an ar-my of 50,000 men, fell into the hand of the conquerors, along with a great part of the province of Navarre. Towards the end of the year, an army of 40,000 Spa-niards, entrenched behind 80 redoubts, the labour of six monthe, suffered themselves to be completely routed ; their general count de La Union was found dead on the field of battle, and the whole Spanish artillery was taken. In three days thereafter, the sort Fernando de Figuieres, containing a garrison of 9107 men, surrendered, although it mounted 171 pieces of cannon, and possessed abundance of provisions. The French continued their conquests ; Rofas was taken, and the whole province of Catalonia was left at the mercy of the invaders.
The succefses of this wonderful campaign were not yet terminated ; and the last part of them is perhaps the most important, although no great effort was neceffary to its execution. The winter now set in with uncom-mon severity. For some years past the seasons of Eu« rope had been uncommonly mild ; there had been lit-tle frost in winter, and no intenfe heat in summer. But during the late season. thc weather had long been re-
marlcabfy dry till the latter part
os harvest, when
there fell a considerable, though by no means unusual, quan-tity of rain. Towards the end of December a severe frost bound up the whole of the rivers and lakes of Holland. The waal was frozen over in the beginning of January;
a
circumstance which had not occurred for 
14
years past. Taking advantage ef this, the French crossed that river, and with little opposition seized the important pafs of Bommell, which at other scafons is so strong by its inundations. The allied army had been joined by 17,000 Austrians, and had received ordcrs to defend Holland to the last. They did fo, and were succefssul in repulsing the French for some days between the waal and the Leck ; but the republican army, amounting to 70,000 men, having at last advanced in full force, the allied troops were compelied to retire across 
the
Yssel into westphalia^ In the course of their march throughthis desert country, in the midst of severe frost and a deep suow, they arc said to have sussered incredible hardships, and to have lost a very great number of men. The French, in the mean time, advanced rapidly acrofs the country to the Zuyder fea, to prevent the in-habitants srom flying, and carrying oss their property. On the 16th of January 1795, a party of horse, without jreflstance, took posseffion of Amsterdam. The other towns furrendered at discretion. In confeqnence of an. order from the States General, the slrong sortresses of Bergen-op-zoon, wiliiamftadt, Breda, &c. opened their gates to the French. The fleet and the shipping were fixed by the intense frost in their Rations, and fell a prey to the enemy; who thus, with little effort, made a complete conquest of this populous and once powerful country. The French were well received by the people at large. The power of the Stadtholder had been support-ed among them merely by the influence of Pruffia and England. Through hatred to this officc, which had now become odious chiefly to the mercantile aristocracy of Holland, they were little attached to their allies, and gave them, during the present war, as little support as possible. The Stadtholder and his family now fled to England. Tlie French declared, that they did not mean to make subjects but allies of the Dutch, and invited them to call together popular assemblies for settling their own government, under the protection of the French republic.
Thus terminated a campaign, the most astonishing, perhaps, that has been known in the history of mankind. In the course cf it, even before the conquest of Holland, the French had taken 2000 pieces of cannon and 60,000 prisoners. Aster that event, the conquered ter-ritories added to them a population of nearly 14 millions of people. Luxembourg and Mentz were the only places on this side of the Rhine that resisted them. The former was cloftly blockaded, for the purpose of compelling it to surrender the latter was several times as-faulted,, but successfully held out.
Europe was now weary of this bloody strife. The German Diet of Ratishon declared its resolution to take meafures for procuring peace. Tile Grand Duke of Tuscany concluded a treaty with thc French republic. France itsels, exhausted by massacrea, emigrations, and the terrible efforts which it had made, wished for tranquillity ; and the Convention found it necessary to declare that they were willing to treat for peace with any of the powers of Europe, upon honourable terms.
The frequent changes, however, which have with astonishing rapidity taken place in the mode os conduct-ing French affairs, and the different principles display-ed by the different factions as they succeffively got into power, have produced in Great Britain and Austria a very general persuasion that no peace concluded with the present Convention could either be honourable or per-manent ; and therefore these two mighty nations have resolved to continue the war with redoubled vigour.— In support os the wisdom os this resolutson, it has been observed, that the hatred os the Mountain to the Gi-rondists was Inch, that it would have violated any treaty which had been concluded with thAa ; that when Robespierre beoame all powerful, and terror was the order os the day, all former measures were changed, and peace or war made wholly subservient to the ambitious views of that relenttesa tyrant ; that Taliien, having orig'nally belonged to the Mountain, introduced the present system of moderation, not from principle, but only to reconcile the people to his usurped authority, and the fast of his bloody predecessor ; that he may suddenly change his measures, or be denounced and executed hy the influence of some more daring demagogue, who would again introduce the fystem of terror; and that in such a state of uncertainty, the only confe-qnence to be expected from making peace at present is, that it would furnish the next faction which may gain, the aseendancy in France with an opportunity of attacking the allies when less prepared to receive them.. Such reafoning as this has been admitted in the Britiih. parliament, where a loan of six millions Sterling has. been voted to the Emperor, to enable him to begin the ensuing campaign with an army of 2-00,000 men. In what manner the war ought to be conducted, it is not for ns to say. The British nation feems to rest its hopes on its superiority at sea ; and the greatest exertions are making to augment and man the navy. But we are here under the neceffity of dropping this subject, with-out being able completely to fulfil the promise which we made to our readers at the end of the article France, There is as little appearance at present of peace, and a steady government being foon restored to that distracted eountry, as there was at the beginning of the troubles ; and there is not the smallest probab;-lity that the republican constitution, framed by the Convention, will last one year after the dissolution of that assembly.
In tracing the origin and progrefs of this wonderful revolution, we have consulted every work from which we had reason to look sor information, aad we have confined ourselves to
a
simple narration of facts, seldom giving way to the reflections which they suggested. Our facts, too, have been generally stated from writers who are supposed to be not unfriendly to democracy, that they may gain the fuller credit with our own reformers ; lor in the most favourable point of view in which those facts can be placed, they furnish the strongest objection poffible to all their proposed reformations of the British constitution. If the horrible deeds of darknefs which have been acted on the theatre of France cannot make us contented with the government under which we live, and which has been brought to its present state of perfection, not by the metaphysical speculations of recluse philofophers, but by obfervation and the practical experience of ages, wc shall
be confidered
by posterity as
a
people incapable of instruction, and ripe
for
the greatest
miseries in which we may be involved.
REVULSION, in medicine, turning a flux of
hu
mours from one part to another by bleeding, cupping, friction, sinapisms, blisters, fomentations, bathings, issues, fetons, strong purging of the bowels, &c.
REYN (Jan de), an eminent history and portrait painter, born at Dunkirk in 1610. He had the good fortune to be a disciple of Vandyke, was the sirst performer, in his sohool, and was so attached to his mailer that he followed him to London, where it is thought he continued as long as he lived. In fhese ^kingdoms he is mostly known by the name of
Lang Jan.
He died in 1678 : and it is imagined that the scarcity of his works is occasioned by so many of them being imputed to Vandyke ; a circumstance which, .if true, is beyond any tiling that could be said in his •praise.
REYNOLDS (Sir Joshua), the celebrated painter, was, on July the 16th 1723, bom at Plympton, a fmall town in Devonshire. His father was minister of the parish, and also master of the grammar school ; and being a man of learning and philanthropy, he was be-soved and respected by all to whom he was known.— Such a man, it will naturally be suppofed, was affiduous in the cultivation of the minds of his children, among whom his son Joshua shonc conspicuous, by displaying at a very early period a superiority of genius, and the rudiments of a correct taste. Unlike other boys, who generally content themselves with giving a literal explanation of their author, regardless of his beauties or his faults, young Reynolds attended to both these, difplaying a happy knowledge of what he read^ and entering with ardour into the spirit of his author. He discovered likewise talents for composition, and a natural propensity to drawing, in which his friends and intimates thought him qualified to excel. Emulation was a distinguishing feature in his mind, wliich his father perceived with the delight natural to a parent ; and designing him for the church, in which he hoped that his talents might raife him to eminence, he sent him to one of the universities.
Soon after this period he grew paffionately fond of painting ; and, by the perusal of Richardson’s theory of that art, was determined to make it his profeffion through life. At his own earnest request, therefore, he was removed to London ; and about the year 1742 be-came a pupil to Mr Hudson, who, though not himself an eminent painter was preceptor to severals who afterwards excelled in the art. One of the sirst advices which he gave to Mr Reynolds was to copy carefully Guercino’s drawings. This was done with such skill,
that many of the copies are said to be now preserved in the cabinets of the curious as the originals of that very great master.
About the year 174.9, Mr IReynolds went to Italy -under the auspices, and in the company, of the late JLord (then Commodore) Keppel, who was appointed to the command of the .British squadron in the Medi-terranean. in this garden of the world, this magic feat of the arts, he failed not to visit the fchools of the great masters, to study the productions of different ages, and to contemplate with unwearied attention the various beauties which are characteristic
ei
each. His labour here, as has been observed of another painter, was " the labour of love, not the task of the hireling and how much he profited by it is .known to all Europe.
Having remained about two years in Italy, and
sta-
died the language as well as the arts of the country with great success, he returned to England, improved by travel and refined bÿ education. On the road to London from the port where he landed, he accidentally found in the inn where he lodged Johnson’s life os Sa-vage ; and was so taken with the charms of composi-tion, and the masterly delineation of character display--ed in that performance, that, having begun tp read it while leaning with his arm on the chimney-piece, he continued in that attitude insensible of pain till he was hardly able to raise his hand to his head. The admiration of the work naturaliy led him to seek the acquaintance of its author·, who continued one of his sincerest admirers and warmest friends, till 1784, when they were separated by the stroke of death.
The first thing that distinguished him aster his return to his native country, was a full length portrait of Commodore Keppel ; which in the polite circles was spoken of in terms of the highest encomium, and tef-tified to what a degree of eminence he had arrived in his profeffion. This was followed by a portrait of Lord Edgecombe, and a few others, which at once introduced him to the first business in portrait painting » and that branch of the art he cultivated with such succefs as will for ever establish his fame with all descrip-tions of resined society. Having painted some of the sirst-rate beauties of the age, the polite world flocked to see the graces and the charms of his pencil ; and he soon became the most fashionable painter, not only su England, but in all Europe. He has indeed preserved the refemblance of so many illustrious characters, that we feel the less regret for his having left behind him so scw  historical paintings ; though what he has done in that way shows @@(a) him to have been qualified to excel in both departments. The only landscape, perhaps, which
@@@(a) As the lovers of painting may wish to have a catalogue of this great master’s historical pieces, we subjoin the following from the European Magazine, which we have good reason to believe accurate, as the editors of that mifcellany grudge neither trouble nor expence to procure authentic information. Sir Joshua’s principal hi-storical pieces, then, are the following : Hope nttrsing Love ; Venus chastising Cupid for having learned to cast accounts; Count Ugolino in the dungeon ; the calling of Samuel; Ariadne; a Captain of banditti; Beggar Boy ; a Lady in the character of St /Agnes; Thais; Dionysius the Areopagite; an infant Jupiter; Master Crewe in the character of Henry VIII ; the death of Dido ; a Child asleep ; Cupid sseeping ; Covent Garden Cupid ; Cupid in the Clouds; Cupids painting ; Boy laughing.; Master Herbert in the character of Bacchus ; Hebe ; Miss Meyer in the character ef Hebe ; Madona, a head ; the Black-guard Mercury ; a little boy (Sa-spuel) praying j and old Man reading ; Love loosing the zonç ef Beauty ; the Children in the Wood j Cleo-
he ever painted, except thofe beautiful and chaste ones which compofe the back grounds of many of his por-trasts, is “ A View on the Thames from Richmond,” which in 1784 was exhibited by the Society for Pro-moting Painting and Design in Liverpool.
In 1764 Mr Reynolds had the merit of being tbe sirst promoter of that club, which, having long existed without a name, became at last distinguished by the ap-pellation of the
Literary Club.
Upon tbe foundation of the Royal Academy of Painting, Sculpture, and Architecture, he was appointed president·; and his ac-knowledged excellence in his profeffion made the appointment acceptable to all the lovers of art. To add to the dignity of this new institution, his majesty conferred on the president the honour of knighthood ; and Sir Joshua delivered his sirst discourse at the opening of the Academy on Januar)' 2. 1769. The merit of that discourse has been univerfally admitted among painters ; but it contains some directions respecting the proper mode of prosecuting their studies, to which every stu-dent of every art would do well to pay attention. “ I would chiefly recommend (says he), that an implicit obedience to the
rules of art,
as established by the prac-tice of the great masters, should be exacted from the young students. That those models, which have passed through the approbation of ages, should be considered by them as perfect and infallible guides; as fubjects for their imitation, not tlieir criticism. I am confident, that this is tlie only efficacious method of making a progress in tlie arts ; and that lie who sets out with doubting, will find life finished before he becomes masser of the rudiments. For it may be laid down as a maxim, that be who begins by presuming on his own sense, has ended his studies as soon as he has commenced them. Every opportunity, therefore, should be taken to dif-countenance that false and vulgar opinion, that rules are the fetters of genius. They are fetters only to men ■of no genius ; as that armour which, upon the strong, becomes an ornament and a defence, upon the weak and inishapen turns into a load, and cripples the body which it was made to protect.”
Each succeeding year, on the distribution of the prizes, Sir Joshua delivered to tlie students a discourse of equal merit with this : and perhaps we do not hazard too much when we say, that, from the whole col-lected, the lover of belles lettres and the fine arts will acquire juster notions os what is meant by taste in ge-r.eral, and better rules for acquiring a correct taste, than from multitudes of those volumes which have been professedly written on the subject.
In the autumn of 1785 he went to Brussels, where he expended about L. 1000 on the purchase of paint-ingg, which, having been taken from the different mo-nasterses and religious houses in Flanders and Germany, were then exposed to sale by tbe command of the Em-peror Joseph ! Gainsborough and he had engaged to paint each other’s portrait; and the canvas for both being actually stretched, Sir Joshua gave one fitting to his distinguished rival ; but, to the regret of every ad-mirer of the art, the unexpected death of the latter pre-vented all further progress.
In 1790 he was anxioussy desirous to procure the vacant profefforship of perspective in the academy for Mr Bonomi, an Italian architect ; but that artist not having been yet elected, an affociate was of course no academician, and it became necessary to raife him to those situations, in order to qualify him for being a profeffor. Mr Gilpin being his competitor for the affociateship, the numbers on the ballot proved equal, when the president by bis casting vote decided the election in favour of his friend, who was thereby advanced so far towards the professorship. Soon after this, an academic seat be-ing vacant, Sir Joshua exerted all his influence to ob-tain it for Mr Bonomi ; but finding himself outvoted by 
a
majority of two to one, he quitted the chair with great dissatissaction, and next day sent to the fecretary of th&academy a formal resignation of the office, which for twenty-one years he had filled with honour to himself and his country. His indignation, however, sub-siding, he suffered himself to be prevailed upon to re-turn to the chair, which within a year and a half he was again desirous to quit for a better reason.
Finding a disease of languor, occasioned by an en-largementof the liver, to wliich he had for some time been subject, increase upon him, and daily expecting the total loss of sight, he wrote a letter to the academy, inti-mating his intention to resign the office of president on account of bodily infirmities, which difabled him from executing the duties of it to his own satissaction. The academicians received this intelligence with the respect-ful concern due to the talents and virtues of their pre-sident ; and either then did enter, or designed to enter, into a refolution, honourable to all parties, namely, that a deputation from the whole body of the academy should wait upon him, jand inform him of their wish, that the authority and privileges of the office of president might be his during his life ; declaring their willingness to permit the performance of any of its duties which might be irksome to him by a deputy.
From this period Sir Joshua never painted more. The last effort of his pencil was the portrait of the Honourable Charles James Fox, which was executed in his
patra diffolving the Pearl; Garrick in the character of Kitely ; Garrick between Tragedy and Comedy ; Mrs Abingdon in the character of Comedy,; a Child surrounded by Guardian Angels ; Miss Beauclerc in the cha-racter of Spenser’s Una ; Resignation ; the Duchess of Manchester in the character of Diana ; Lady Blake in the charaôler of Juno ; Mrs Sheridan in the character of St Cecilia ; Edwin, horn Beattie’s Minstrel ; the Nativity, hour Cardinal Virtues, and Faith, Hope, and Charity, for the window of New College Chapel, Ox-ford ; the Studious Boy ; a Bacchante ; a daughter of Lord W. Gordon as an Angel ; the Holy Family ; the Cottagers, srom Thomfon ; the Vestal; the Careful Shepherdefs; a Gypsey telling Fortunes; tlie infant Hercules strangling the Serpent ; the Moufe-trap girl ; Venus ; Cornelia and her Children ; the Bird ; Melanclioly ■ Mrs Siddons in Tragedy ; Head of Lear ; Mrs Talmash in the character os Miranda, witli Profpervaçd Call-ban ; Robin Goodfellow ; Death of Cardinal Beaufort ; Macbeth, with the Caldron of the witches.
best style, and shows that his fancy, his imagination, and his other great powers in the art which he profeffed, remained unabated to the end of his life, when the last touches wcre given to this picture,
" The hand of Reynolds fell, to rife no more.”
On Thursday February tbe 23d 1792, the world was deprived of this amiable man and excellent artist at the age of 68 years ; a man than whom no one, according to Johnson, had paffed through life with more observation of men and manners. The ' following character of him is said to be the production of Mr Burke :
- “ H is illness was long, but borne with a mild and cheerful fortitude, without the least mixture of any thing irritable or querulous, agreeably to the placid and even tenor of his whole life. He had from the beginning of his malady a distinct view of his diffolu-tion, which he contemplated with that entire compo-sure which nothing but the innocence, integrity, and usefulncsa of his life, and an unaffected submiffion to the will of Providence, could bestow. In this situation he liad every consolation from family tenderness, which his tenderness to his family had always merited.
" Sir Joshua Reynolds was, on very many accounts, one of the most memorable men of his time : Pie was the sirst Englishman who added the praise of the ele-gant arts to the other glories of his country. In tafte, in grace, in facility, in happy invention, and in the richness and harmony of colouring, he was equal to the great matters of the renowned ages. In portrait he went beyond them ; for he communicated to that description of the art in which English artists are the most engaged, a variety, a fancy, and a dignity, derived from the higher branches, which even those who profeffed them in a superior manner did not ai ways preserve when they delineated individual nature. His portraits remind the spectator of tlie invention of history and the amenity of landfcape. In painting portraits, he appears not to be raised upon that platform, but to de-scend to it from a higher sphere. His paintings illu-strate his lessons, and his leffons seem to be derived from his paintings.
“ He poffeffed the theory as perfectly as the practice of his art. To be such a painter, he was a profound and penetrating philosopher.
" In full happinefs of foreign and domestic same, admired by the expert in art, and by the learned in science, courted by the great, careffed by sovereign powers, and celebrated by distinguished poets, bis native humility, modesty, and candour, never forsook him, even on-surprise or provocation ; nor was the least degree of arrogance or affumption visible to the mast scrutinizing eye in any part of his conduct or discourfe.
" His talents of every kind—powerful from nature, and not meanly cultivated in letters—his social virtues in all the relations and all the habitudes of life, rendered him the centre of a very great and unparalleled variety of agreeable societies, which will be diffipated by his death. He had too much merit not to excite some jea-lousy, too much innocence to provoke any enmity. The loss of no man of his time can be felt with more sincere, general, and unmixed sorrow.”
REZAN, or Rezanskoi, an ancient town of Ruf-sia, and capstal of a duchy of the same name, with an archbishop’s see. If was formetly considerable sor its extent and riches; but it was almost ruined by the Tartars in 1568. The conntry is populous, and was for-merly governed by its own princes. E. Long. 42. 37. N. Lat. 54. 54.
RHADAMANTHUS, a severe judge, and king of Lydia ; the poets make him one of the three judges of hell.
RHAGADES, in medicine, denotes chaps or clefts in any part of the body. If seated in the anus, and recent, the patient must sit still, and fit over the-steam of warm water. The epulotic cerate may also be applied. If the lips of these fissures are callous, they muff be cut or otherwise treated as to become new ulcera-tions.
RHAMA, or Rama, an incarnate deity of tlie sirst rank, in Indian mythology. Sirwilliam Jones believes he was the Dionysos @@(a) of the Greeks, whom they named 
Bromius,
without knowing why; and
Bugenes,
when they represented him
horned,
as well as
Lyaios
and
Eleutherias 
the deliverer,
rnâTmambosov DythyrambosChe.
triumphant. " Most of thofe titles (says Sir william) were adopted by the Romans, by whom he was called
Bruma, Tauriformis, Liber,
and
Triumphus;
and both nations had records or traditionary accounts of his giving laws to men and deciding their contests, os his improving navigation and commerce, and, what may appear yet more observable, of his conquering India and other countries with an army of satyrs, commanded by no less a personage than Pan ; whom Lillius- Giraldus, on what authority I know not, asserts to have resided in Iberia ‘ when he had returned, says the learned mythologist, from the Indian war, in which he accompanied Bacchus.’ It were superfluous iu a mere effay to run any length in the parallel between this European god and the sovereign of Ayodhya, whom the Hindoos believe to have been an appearance on earth of the preserving power ; to have been a conqueror of the highest renown, and the deliverer of nations from tyrants, as well as of his confort Sita from the giant Ravan king of Lanca ; and to have commanded in chief a numerous and intrepid race of tliose large monkeys, wliich our naturalists,. or some of them, have denominated Indian satyrs : bis. general, tlie prince of satyrs,- was named
Hanumat,
or " with high cheek bones and, with workmen of fuch agility, lie soon raised a bridge of rocks over the sea, part of which, say the Hindoos, yet remains ; and it is probable the series of rocks to which the Muffulmans or the Portuguese have given the fooliih name of
Adam’s 
(it should be called
Rama’s)
bridge. Might not this
@@@(a) The learned president, whofc death will be lamented by every scholar, by the orientalist and the divine-especially, imagines, that this would fully appear from comparing together the
Dionyfiaca
of Nonnus and the
Ramayan
of Valmic, the sirst poet of the Hindoos. He adds, that, in his opinion, Rhama was the son of Cush, and that he might have established the sirst regular government in that part of Asia. in which his exploits are said to have been performed.
army of satyrs have been only a race of mountaineers, whom Rama, if such a monarch ever existed, had civilized ? However that may be, the large breed of Indian apes is at this moment held in high veneration by tlie Hindoos, and fed with devotion by the Brahmans, who seent in two or three places on the banks of the Ganges to have a regular endowment for the support of them : they live in tribes of three or four hundred, are wonderfully gentle (I speak as an eye-witness), and ap-pear to have fome kind of order and subordination in their little sylvan polity.” The festival of Rhama is held on the 9th day of the new moon of Chaitra, on which the war of Lauca is dramatically represented, conclu-ding with an exhibition of the fire ordeal, by which the victor’s wife Sita gave proof of her connubial fidelity. Among the Hindoos there are a variety of very fine dramas of great antiquity ®n the story of Rhama.
There are three Rhamas mentioned in the Indian mythology, who, together with Crishna, the darling god of the Indian women, are defcribed as youths of perfect beauty. The third Rhama is Crishna’s elder brother, and is considered as the eighth Avatar @@(b), in-vested with an emanation of his divine radiance. Like all the Avatars, Rhama is painted with gemmed Ethi-opian or Parthian coronets ; with rays encircling his head, jewels in his ears, two necklaces, oae straight and one pendant on his bosom, with dropping gems ; garlands of well-dispofed many-coloured flowers, or collars of pearls, hanging down below his waist ; loose mantles of golden tiffue or dyed sslk, embroidered on the hems with flowérs elegantly thrown over one shoulder, and folded like ribbands acloss the breast ; with bracelets, two on one arm and on each wrist : all the Avatars are naked to the waisss, and uniformly with dark azure flesh, in allusion probably to the tint of that primordial fluid on which Narayan moved in the beginning of time ; but their skirts are bright yellow, the colour of the curious pericarpium in the centre of the water-lily.
RHAMNUS, the buckthorn, in botany : A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the pentan-dria class of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under the 43d order,
Dumofœ.
The calyx is tubulous, with five minute scales surrounding the stamina ; there is no corolla ; the fruit is a berry. There are 27 spe-cies ; of which the most remarkable are,
I.
The catharticus, or common purging buckthorn, growing naturally in some parts of Britain. This glows to the height of. 12 or 14 feet, with many irregular branches at the extremities. The leaves are oval-lan-ceolate, finely serrated on the edges, their nerves con-verging together. The flowers grow in clusters, one on each footstalk, white, and in this species divided into four segments : the fruit is a round black berry, containing four feeds. The juice of the berries is a
strong purgative, and is made ufe of for making the common syrup of buckthorn kept in the shops. The bark is emetic : the juice of the unripe berries with alum dyes yellow, of the ripe ones a sine green ; the bark also dyes yellow. The green colour yielded by the berries, called by the French
verde-vefjie,
is much esteemed by miniature painters.
Of this species there are two varieties,
viz.
the dwarf buckthorn, a shrub of about a yard high, of a greenish colour but little show; and the long-leaved dwarf buck-thorn, which is a larger shrub, with leaves fomewhat larger, but in other respects very similar to tlie dwarf buckthorn.
2.    The zizyphus is the species in which the lac in-sect* forms its cells, and produces the wax callecl
gum-lac.
See Lacca.
3.    The lotus has the leaves, prickles, flowers, and fruit, of the zizyphus or jubeb ; only with this difference, that the fruit is here round, smaller, and more lufeious, and at the same time the branches, like thofe of the paliurus, are neither so much jointed nor crook-ed. Ί he fruit is in great repute, tastes something like gingerbread, and is fold in the markets all over the southern districts of these kingdoms. The Arabs call it
aneb enta el feedra,
or
the jubeb of the feedra ;
which Olavus Celsius had so high an opinion of, that he has described it as the dudaim of the scriptures. This spe-cies is very common in the Jereede and other parts of Bombay ; and has been supposed by some to be the same plant with that celebrated by Homer for its en-chanting property; though the latter is more generally supposed to have been a species of Diospyros (which see). It is proper, however, to distinguish between both these shrubs and an herb often mentioned by the ancients under the name of
lotus,
which Homer men-tions as being fed upon by the horses of Achilles, and Virgil as proper to increafe the milk of sheep (see Lotus). They are also different from the Egyptian lo« tus described by Herodotus; sor which see Nym-
PHÆA.
4.    The frangula, or berry-bearing alder, is a deciduous shrub, a native of England and most of the north-era parts of Europe, and affords several varieties.
5.    The Alpine, rough-leaved frangula, or berrybearing alder, is also a deciduous shrub, and native of the Alps. It differs in no respect from the common fort, except that it has no thorns, and that it will grow to be rather taller, with tough, large, and doubly laci-niated leaves. The smooth-leaved Alpine frangula is a variety of this species, with smooth leaves and of a lower growth.
6.    The paliurus, or thorn of Christ, is a deciduous shrub or tree, a native of Palestine, Spain, Portugal, and Italy. It will grow to nearly the height of 14,
@@@(b)
Avatar
means the defcent of the deity in his capacity of preserver. The three sirst of these defcents re· late to some stupendous convulsion of our globe from the fountains of the deep, and the fourth exhibits the miraculous punishment of pride and impiety, appearing to refer to the deluge. Three of the others were ordaiued for the overthrow of tyrants or giants. Of these Avatars we have mentioned in the text, that Rhama is the eighth ; Buddha, who appears to have been a reformer of the doctrines contained in Vedas, is the ninth : the tenth Avatar, we are told, is yet to come, and is expected to appear mounted (like the crowned conqueror in the Apocalypse) on a white horse, with a scimeter blazing like a comet to mow down all ^corrigible and impe·» sutent offenders who shall then be on the earth.
sect, and is armed with sharp thorns, two os which are at each joint, one os which is about half an inch long, straight, and upright ; the other is scarcely half that length, and bent backward ; and between them is the bud sor next year’s shoot. June is the time oi flowering, and the flowers are succeeded by a small fruit, sur-roundedby a membrane. " This plant (says Hanbury) is undoubtedly the sort os which the crown os thorns sor our Bleffed Saviour was composed. The branches are very pliant, and the spines os it are at every joint strong and sharp. It grows naturally about Jerusalem, as well as in many parts of Judæa ; and there is no doubt that the barbarous Jews would make choice os it sor their cruel purpose. But what farther confirms the truth os these thorns being then used, are the an-cieut pictures os our Bleffed Saviour’s crucifixion. The thorns os the crown on his head exactly answer to those os this tree ; and there is great reason to suppose these were taken srom the. earliest paintings os tlie Lord os Life : and even now our modern painters copy srom tliem, and represent the crown as composed os these thorns. Thefe plants, therefore, shonld principally liave a share in those parts of tlie plantation that are more peculiarly designed sor religious retirement ; for tliey will prove excellent monitors, and conduce to due reflection on and gratitude to ‘ Him who hath loved us, and lias washed us from our fuis,” &c.
7.    The common alaternus is an evergreen tree, and native of the south of Europe. There are several varieties of this species ; the most remarkable of which are the broad-leaved and tbe jagged-leaved alaternus, which have all been confounded with the phillyrea.
8.    The insectorius, or narrow-leaved buckthorn, is an evergreen shrub or tree, and native of Spain. It grows to the height of 10 or 12 feet, and fends forth several branches from the bottom to the top. They are co-vered with a blackish or dark-coloured bark, and each ©f them is terminated by a long sharp thorn. The fruit continues on the trees all winter, making a beautiful appearance among the narrow-cluttered leaves at that season.
9.    The oleoides, or olive-leaved buckthorn, is an evergreen shrub, and native of Spain, and grows to the height os 8 or 1 o seet. It fends forth numerous branclies, each of which is terminated by a long sharp spine. The flowers are small, of a whitish green colour, and are suc-ceeded by round black berries.
RHAMPHASTOS, in ornithology, a genus be-longing to the order of picae. The bill is very large, and serrated outwardly. The nostrils are situated behind the base of the beak ; and in most of the species the feet aie toed, and placed two forwards and two backwards. The tongue is long, narrow, and feathered on the edges. Mr Latham enumerates 15 disscrent species ; of which the toucans are the most remarkable, and were formerly divided into four or sive varieties, though Mr Latham makes them distinct fpecies, of which we shali only defcribe that called the red-beaked toucan.
This bird is about the size of a jackdaw, and of a similar shape, with a large head to support its monstrous bill : this bill, from the angles of the mouth to its point, is six inches and an half ; and its breadth in the thickest part is a little more than two. Its thickness near the head is one inch and a quarter ; and it is
a 
little rounded along the top of the upper chap, the under side. being round also ; the whole of the bill extremely flight, and a little thicker tlian parchment. The upper chap is of a bright yellow, except on each side, which is of a fine searlet colour ; as is alfo the lower chap, except at the base, which is purple. Between the head and the bill there is a black
liRe
of separation all round the base of the bill ; in the upper part of which the nostrils are placed, and are almost covered with feathers ; which has occasioned some writers to say that the toucan has no nostrils. Round the eyes, on each side of the head, is a space of bluish skin, void of feathers ; above which the head is black, except a white spot on each side joining to the base of the, upper chap. The hinder part of the neck, the back, wings, tail, belly, and thighs, are black. The under side of the head, throat, and the beginning of the breast, are white. Between the white on the breast, and the black on the belly, is a space of red feathers, in the form of a new moon, with its horns upwards. The legs, seet, and claws, are of an ash-colour ; and the toes stand like those of parrots, two before and two behind.
It is reported by travellers, that this bird, though surnished with fo formidable a beak, is harmless and. gentle, being so easily made tame as to sit and hatch its young in houses. It seeds chiefly upon pepper, which it devours very greedily, gorging itself in such a manner that it voids it crude and unconcocted. T'his, however, is no objection to the natives from using it again : they even prefer it before that pepper which is fresh gathered from the tree ; and seem persuaded that the stiength and heat of the pepper is qualified by the bird, and that all its noxious qualities are thus ex-hausted.
whatever be the truth of this report, nothing is more certain than that the toucan lives only upon a vegetable diet ; and, in a domestic state, to which it is frequently brought in the warm countries where it is bred, it is seen to prefer such food to all other. Pozzo, who bred one tame, afferts, that it leaped up and down, wagged the tail, and cried with a voice resembling that of a magpie. It fed upon the fame things that parrots do; but was most greedy of grapes, which, being plucked off one by one, and thrown in the air, it would most dexterously catch before they sell to the ground. Its bill, he adds, was hollow, and upon that account very light, so that it had but little strength in fo apparently formidable a weapon ; nor could it peck or strike smartly therewith. But its tongue seemed to affist the efforts of this unwieldy machine : it was long, thin, and flat, not unlike one of the feathers on the neck of a dunghill cock ; this it moved up and down, and often extended sive or six inches from the bill. It was of a flesh colour, and remarkably fringed on each side with very fmall silaments.. exactly resembling a feather.
It is probable that tliis long tongue has greater strength than the thin hollow beak that contains it. It is likely that the beak is only a kind of sheath sor this peculiar instrument, used by the toucan, not only in making itself a nest, but alfo in obtaining its pro-vision. Nothing is more certain, than that this bird builds its uest in holes of trees, which have been pre-
viouily scooped out for this purpofe; and
it is
not.very likely that
so
feeble a bill could be very scrviceable in working upon such hard materials.
Be this as it will, there is no bird secures its young better from external injury than the toucan, it has not only birds, men, and serpents, to guard against ; but a numerous tribe of monkeys, still more prying, mischievous, and hungry, than all the rest. The toucan, however, sceops out its nest into the hollow of some tree, leaving only a hole large enough to go in and out at. There it sits, with its great beak, guarding the entrance ; and if the monkey ventures to offer 
a
visit of curiosity, the toucan gives him sueh a wel-come, that he presently thinks proper to pack off, and is glad to escape with safety.
This bird is only found in the warm climates of South America, where it is in great requeft, both for the de-licacy of its flesh, which is tender and nourishing, and for the beauty of its plumage, particularly the fea-thers of the breast. The skin of this part the Indians pluck off, and when dry glue to their cheeks ; and this they consider as an irresistible addition to their beauty.
RHAPIS, in botany : A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the hexandria clafs of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under the sirst order, 
Palma.
The calyx is a monophylious trisid spatha ; the corolla monopetalous and trisid. There are two species,
viz.
i. Flabilliformis, or ground-ratan, a native cf China; 2. Arundinacea, simple leaved rhapis, a na-tive of Carolina.
RHAPSODI, Rhapsodjsts, in antiquity, persons wlio made a business of singing pieces of Homer’s poems. Cuper informs us, that the Rhapfodi were clothed in red when they sung the Iliad, and in blue when they sung tlie Odyffey.. They performed on the theatres, and sometimes strove for prizes in. contests of poetry, singing, &c. After the two antagonists liad sinished their parts, the two pieces or papers they were written in were joined together again : whence the name,
viz.
from    
ofuo,
and
canticum :
but there
seem to have been other Rhapsodi of more antiquity than .these people, who composed heroic poems or songs in praise os heroes and great men, and sung their own compositions srom town to town sor a livelihood ; os which profeffion Homer himsels is said to have been. See Bard.
RHAPSODOMANCY, an ancient kind os divina-tion performed by pitching on a paffage os a poet at hazard, and reckoning on it as a prediction os what was. to come to pass. There were various ways os practi-fing this rhapsodomaney. Sometimes they wrote several papers or Sentences os a poet on so many pieces os wood, paper, or the like, shcok them together in an urn, and drew out one which was accounted the lot sometimes they cast dice on a table whereon verses were written, and that whereon the die lodged contained the prediction- A third manner was by opening a book, and pitching on some verse at sirst sight. This me-thûd they particularly called the
fortes Praneflime ;
aud afterwards, according to the poet, made use os,
fortes Homeric#, fortes Vtrgdiana,
&c. See Sortes.
RHAPSODY, in antiquity, a discourse in verse fang or rehearsed by a rhapsodist. Others will have 
rhapsody to
signify a
collection of yerses, especially
those of Homer, which having been
a
long time
dis-
persed in pieces and fragments, were at length by
Pi-
sistratus’s order digested into books called
rhapfodtes,
srom    
fuo,
and
canticum.
Hence, among mo-
derns,
rhapsody
is also used sor an affemblage os passa-ges, thoughts, and authorities, raked together srom divers authors, to compose some new piece.
RHE, or Ree, a little issand in the Bay os Biscay, near the coast os Aunis in France. It was taken du-ring the war with France which ended in 1763, in the expedition commanded by Hawke and Mordaunt.
RHEA AMERlCANA. The American ostrsch of authors has been frequently mentioned, but till os late years very imperfectly known ; being blended by some with other genera, although forming os itsels a distinct one, differing in many things from all others. The older writers, however, have kept it separate. It does not occur to us whether any author has figured this bird except
Nieremberg,
whose representation conveys no just idea, which is wonderful, as it is to be met with iu sufficient plenty in various parts os South America ; nor has the bird itsels made its appearance in the cabi-nets os coliectors, until the one now in the Leverian museum.
M. Bajon, in his
Mem. fur Cayenne,
gives a sigure and description os the jabirus, and seems clear that this bird is no other than the ostrich os Amenca. From this affertion, Mr Latham, in his
Synopßs,
leaves the matter undecided ; but this author, in his
Index Qmi-thol.
srom having met with the specimen above alluded to, and supported in an account os its manners given by Molina in his
Hssl. Nat. da Chili,
treats this matter on more certain grounds, so as to enable us to give the following description.
In size the American ostrich is very little inferior to the common one : the bill is Hoped not unlike that of a goose, being flat on the top and rounded at the end r the eyes are black, and the lids furnished with hairs : the head is rounded, and covered with downy feathers : the neck is two feet eight inches long, and feathered also : from the tip of one wing to that of the other extended, the length is eight feet ; but from the want of continuity of the webs of the feathers, and their laxity of texture, the bird is unable to raise itself from the ground \ it is, however, capable of greatly affistiug itself by their motion in running, which it does very swiftly : the legs are stout, hare of feathers above the knees, and surnished with three toes, all placed forwards, each having a straight and stout claw as in the cassowary ; on the heel is a callous knob, serving in place of a back, toe : the general colour of plumage is dull grey mixed with white, inclining to the latter on the under parts : the tail is very lhort, and not conspicuous, being entirely covered with long loose and floating feathers, having origin from the lower part of the hack and rump, and entirely covering it : the bill and legs are brown.
Molina observes that this bird varies ; the body in some being white, in others black. In respect to manners, it is said.to be a general feeder, but more sond of flies, which it catches with great dexterity, and will also, like the common ostrich, swallow bits os iron and1  any other trash offered to it. In common with the ostrich of the old world, it lays a number of eggs, from. ' 40 to 60, in the fand, cacti of them holding a quart ;
but st differs from that bird in many particulars, espe-cially in wanting the callosity on the sternum, and spars on the wing. AVith these last the-common ostrich is known to defend itself : in defect of them, the one here treated of uses the feet with such address as to become at once a furious and dangerous· antagonist. The fe-male calls its young ones together with a kind of whii-'tling note fomewhat similar to that of a man: when young it is very tame, frequently following the sirst creature it meets with. The flesh of this bird is said to be very unpalatable. It is found in various parts of South America, from Patagonia to Guiana, and is known by the name of
Choique.
"AVe are happy to be able to present our readers with an accurate drawing of the bird. See Plate CCCCXXXVII.
RHEEDIA, in botany: A genus of the monogynia order,· belonging to tbe polyandria class of plants ; and in the natural method ranking with those of which the order is doubtful. I he corolla is tetrapetalous; there is no-calyx ; and the fruit is a trispermous berry.
RHEGIUM (anc. geog.), so very ancient a city as to be supposed to take its name from the violent burst-ing of the coast of Italy from Sicily ; thought to have been formerly conjoined (Mela, Virgil). A city of the Bruttii, a colony of Chalcidians from Euhœa: a strong barrier opposed to Sicily (Strabo) ; mentioned by Luke; surnamed
Julium
(Ptolemy), from afresh supply of inhabitants sent thither by Augustus, after driving Sextus Pompeius out of Sicily (Strabo) ; and thus was in part a colony, retaining still the right of a municipium (Inscription). The city is now called
Reggio,
in the Farther Calabria.
RHE 1 MS, a city of France in Champagne, and capital of Rhemois. It is one of the most ancient, celebrated, and largest places in the kingdom, had an archbishop’s see, whose archbishop was duke and peer of. France. It is about four miles in circumference, and contains several sine fquares, well-built houses, and magnificent churches. It had a mint, an university, and sive abbeys, the most famous of which was that of St Remy. There are also several triumphal arches and other monuments of the Romans. It is feated on the river Velie, on a plain surrounded by hills, which pro-duce excellent wine. E. Long. 4. 8. N. Lat. 49. 14.
RHENISH wine, that produced on the hills about Rheims. This wine is much used in medicine as a sohent of mon, for which it is well calculated on ac-count of its acidity. Dr Percival observes, that it is the best solvent of the Peruvian bark ; in which, how-ever, he thinks its acidity has no share, because an ad-dition of vinegar to water does not augment its solvent power.
RHETORES, amongst the Athenians, were ten in number, elected by lot to plead public causes in the senate-house or affembly. For every cause in which they were retained, they received a drachm out of the public money. They were sometimes called and their fee ™ Συν^ο^ικον. No man was admitted to thls office bciore ne was q o years of age, though others say 30. Valour in war, piety to their parents, prudence in their affairs, frugality, and temperance, were neceffary qualifications for tliis office, and every candi-date underwent an examination concerning tliese virtues previous to the election. The orators at Rome were not unlike the Athenian rhetores. See Ora-
TOR.
- RHETORIANS, a sect of heretics in Egypt, so denominated from Rhetorius tlieir leader. The di-stinguishlng tenets of this heresiarch, as represented by Philastrius, was, that he approved of all the here-sies before him, and taught that they were all in the right-τ
RHETORIC, the art of speaking copioussy on any subject, with all the advantages of beauty and force. See Oratory.
RHEUM, a thin serous humor, occasionally oozing out of the glands about the mouth and threat.
Rheum,
Rhubarb:
A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the enrteandria class of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under the 12th order,
Holora-ceœ.
There is no calyx ; the corolla is sexsid and per-siftent ; and there is one triquetrous seed. There are sive species, viz. 1. The rhaponticum, or common rhu-barb, hath a large, thick, fleshy, branching, deeply-ffriking root, yellowish within ; crowned by very large, roundish, heart-shaped smooth leaves, on thick, ssightly-surrowed foot-stalks : and an upright strong stem, two or three feet high, adorned with leaves singly, and terminated by thick close spikes of white flowers. It grows » in Thrace and Scythia, but has been long in the English gardens. Its root affords a gentle purge. It is however of inferior quality to some of the following sorts ; but the plant being astringent, its young stalks in spring, being cut and peeled, are ilfed for tarts.
2. The palmatum, palmated-leaved true Chinese rhubarb, hath a thick fleshy root, yellow within ; crowned with very large palmated leaves, being deeply divided into acuminated segments, expanded like an open hand ; upright stems, sive or six feet high or more, terminated by large spskes of flowers *. This is now pro
ved to be the true foreign rhubarb, the purgative qua-lity of which is well known. 3. The compactum, or Tartarian rhubarb, hath a large, fleshy, branched root, yellow within ; crowned by very large, heart-shaped fomewhat lobated, sharply indented, smooth leaves, and an upright large stem, five or six feet high, garnished with leaves singly, and branching above ; having all the branches terminated by nodding panicles of white flowers. This has been supposed to be the true rhubarb ; which, however, though of superior quality to some sorts, is accounted inferior to the rheum palmatum.
4. The undulatum, undulated, or waved-leaved Chinese rhubarb, hath a thick, branchy, deep-striking root, yellow within ; crowned with large, oblong, undulate, fomewhat hairy leaves, having equal foot-stalks, and an upright firm stem, four feet high ; garnished with leaves singly, and terminated by long loose spikes of whlte flowers, 5. The Arabian ribes, or currant rhu-barb of Mount Libanus, hath a thick fieshy root, very broad leaves, full of granulated protuberances, and with equal soot-stalks, and upright sirm stems, three or four feet high, terminated by spikes of flowers, succeeded by berry-nke seeds, being surrounded by a purple pulp« All these plants are perennial in root, and the leaves and stalks are annual. The roots being thick, fleihy, gene-rally divided, strike deep into the ground ; of a browrt-ish colour without and yellow within : the leaves rise in the spring, generally come up in a large head folded
together, gradually expanding themselves, having thick foot-stalks ; and grow from one to two feet high, or more, in length and breadth, spreading all round : 'amidst them rife the flower-stems, which are garnished at each joint by one leaf, and are of strong and expeditious .growth, attaining their full height in June, when they flower ; and are succeeded by large triangular seeds, ripening in August. Some plants of each fort merit cub ture in gardens for variety ; they will effect a singula-rity with their luxuriant foliage, spikes, and flowers : and as medical plants, they demand culture both for private and public use.
They are generally propagated by seeds sowed su au-tumn soon after they are ripe, or early in the spring, in any open bed of light deep earth ; remarking, those intended for medical ufe should generally be sowed where they are to remain, that the roots, being not disturbed by removal, may grow large. Scatter the seeds thinly, either by broad-cast all over the· surface, and raked well in ; or in shallow drills a foot and half distance, covering them near an inch deep. The plants will rife in the fpring, but not flower till the second or third year : when they, however, are come up two or three inches high, thin them to eight or ten inches, and clear out all weeds ; though those dessgned always to stand should afterwards be hoed out to a foot and a half or two seet distance : observing, if any arc required sor the pleasure ground, &c. for variety, they should be transplanted where they are to remain in autumn, when their leaves decay, or early in spring, before they shoot: the others remaining where sowed, must have the ground kept clean between them ; and in autumn, when the leaves and stalks decay, cut them down, and ssightly dig the ground between the rows of plants^ repeating the same work every year.. The roots remaining, they increase in size annually : and in the fécond or third veal-many of them will shoot up stalks, flower, and perfect seeds ; and in three or four years tile roots will be arrived to a large size ; though older roots are generally preferable for medical use. .
In Mr Bell’s Travels we have an account of some curious particulars relating to the culture of rhubarb. He tells us, that the best rhubarb grows in that part 
of
Eastern Tartary called
Mongalia,
which now serves as a boundary between Ruffia and China. The marmots contribute greatly to the culture of the rhubarb, wherever you see io or 20 plants growing, you are sure of finding several burrows under the shades of their broad-sp reading leaves. Perhaps they may fometimes eat the leaves and roots of this plant ; however, it is probable the manure they leave about the roots contributes not a little to its increase ; and their casting up the earth, makes it shoot out young buds and multiply. This plant does not run, and spread itself, like clocks and others of the same species ; but grows in tufts, at uncertain distances, as if the feeds had been dropped with defign. It appears that thc Mon-gals never accounted it worth cultivating ; but that the world is obliged to tlie marmots for the quantities scattered, at random, in many parts of this coun-try : for whatever part of tile ripe seed happens to be blown among the thick grass, can very seldom reach the ground, but must there wither and die ; whereas, Should it sall among the loose earth thrown up by the marmots, it immediately takes root, and
produces 
a new plant.
After digging and gathering the rhubarb, the Mon-gals cut the large roots into small pieces, in order to make them dry more readily. In the middle of every piece they scoop a hole, through which a cord is drawn, in order to sufpend them in any convenient place. They hang them for the most part about their tents, and fometimes on the horns of their sheep. This is a most pernicious custom, as it destroys some of the best part or the root : sor all about the hole is rotten and useless; whereas, were people rightly informed how to dig and dry this plant, there would not be one pound of refuse in an hundred ; which would save a great deal of trouble and expence, that much diminish the profits on this commodity.. At present, the dealers in this article think these improvements not worthy of their attention, as their gains are more considerable on this than on any other branch of trade. Perhaps the government may hereafter think it proper to make some regulations with regard to this matter.
Two forts of rhubarb are met with in the shops. ss he sirst is imported from Turkey and Ruffia, in roundish pieces freed from the bark,-with a hole through the middle of each ; they are externally of a yellowish colour, and on cutting appear variegated with lively reddish streaks. 1 he other, which is less esteemed, comes immediately from the East Indies, in longish pieces, harder, heavier, and more compact than the foregoing. The first sort, unless kept very dry, is apt to grow mouldy and worm-eaten ; the second is lefs subject· to these inconveniences. Some of the more mdustrious artists are said to fill up the worm-holes with certain mixtures, and to colour the outfide of the damaged pieces with powder of the finer sorts of rhubarb, and sometimes wlth cheaper materials : this is often so nicely done, as effectually to impose upon the buyer, unless he very carefully examines each piece. The marks of good rhubarb are, that it be firm and solid, but not flinty ; that it be eastly pulverable, and appear, when powdered, of a fine bright yellow colour j that, upon being chewed, it impart to the fpittle a saffron tinge, without proving siimy or mucilaginous m the mouth. Its taste is subacrid, bitteriih, and fomewhat astringent ; the smell lightly aromatic.
Rhubarb is a mild cathartic, which operates without violence or irritation, and may be given with safety even to pregnant women and children. - .Besides its purgative quality, it is celebrated for an astringent one, by which it strengthens the tone of the stomach and mtestines, and proves ufeful in diarrhoeas and disorders proceeding from a laxity of the sibres. Rhubarb in substance operates more powerfully as a cathartic than any of the preparations of it. watery tinctures purge more than the spirituous ones; whilst the latter contain in greater perfection the aromatic, astringent, and corro-borating virtues of the rhubarb. The dose, when intended as a purgative, is from a scruple to a dram or more.
The Turkey rhubarb is, among ns,, universally preferred to the East India fort, though this last is for lome purposes at least equal to the others lt ls mani-sestly more astringent, but has fomewhat Iess of an aromatic flavour. Tinctures drawn from both with.· rectified spirit have nearly the fame taste ; on distilling
oss the menstmum, the extract left from the tincture of the East India rhubarb proved considerably the ftrongest.
Rhubarb has been cultivated of late in this country with considerable success, and for medical purposes is sound to equal that of foreign growth, as is proved hy the Transactions of the London Society for encoura-ging Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce, who have re-warded several persons both for cultivating and curing it. In the Transactions sor 1792, the gold medal was adjudged to Sir william Fordyce, for raising from seed in the year 1791 upwards os 300 plants of the true rhubarb, or rheum palmatum of the London Pharmacopoeia 1788, which in the second and third weeks of October were transplanted into a deep loam, at four seet distance from each other, according to rules laid down by the society. In 1793 it was adjudged to Mr Thomas Jones, from whofe papers we derive the follow-ing information.
After giving an accurate account of his experiments and observations, he concludes, that the season sor sowing is the spring about March or April, or in autumn about August and September; that those plants which are raised in the spring should be transplanted in autumn, and
vice versa ;
that they cannot have too much room ; that room and time are essentially neceffary to their be-ing large, off a good appearance, and perhaps to the in-crease of their purgative qualities ; that to effect these purposes, the foil must be hght, loamy, and rich, but not too much so, lest the roots should be too fibrous ; that their situation can scarcely be too dry, as more ' evils are to be expected from a superabundancy of moisture than any actual want of it : and lastly, we may conclude, that in particular the injuries which they are fubject to are principally during their insancy, and. to be imputed to infects and inattention to the planting season ; afterwards, from too great an exposure to frost : but that none can be dreaded from heat ; and that in general they are hardy and easy of cultivation, when arrived beyond a certain term.
The method of curing rhubarb, as proposed by
Dr
Tirruogel of Stockholm, is as follows: " No roots should be taken up till they have been planted ten years : they shonld be taken out of the ground either in winter, before the frost sets in, or in the beginning of spring, and immediately cut into pieces, and carefully barked ; let them be spread upon a table sor three or four days, and be frequently turned, that the juices may thicken or condense within the roots. After this procefs, make a hole in each piece, and put a thread through it ; by which let them hang separately, either within doors, or in some shelterest shady shed. Some persons dry them in a different way : they inclose the roots in clay, and make a hole in the clay, about the thickness of a goose-quill, and in this manner bang up each piece to dry separately, that the moisture may not evaporate, nor the strength of the root be weakened. But the methods which the Tartars follow is a bad one : they dig the roots out of the deserts where they grow, bark them, and immediately string them, and hang them round the necks of their camels, that they may dry as they travel ; but this greatly lessens the medicinal virtue of the root.”
Mr
Thomas Halley of Pontefract in Yorkshire, to whom the London Society voted the silver medal in
1793, insorms us, that his father tried various
experi
ments for curing rhubarb, as washing, brushing, bark-ing, and peeling, and he dried them in the sun, on
a
kiln, in a stove, or in a warm kitchen. But of the suc-cess of all or either of these methods we have no ac-count, owing to the death of Mr Halley’s father. He sent, however,to them sive different specimens, which the Society acknowledges to be supersor to any rhubarb hitherto cured in England, and produced to them. The roots sent, Mr Halley says, were planted about the year 1781 in a light sandyish foil, but were much neglected. They were taken up in the spring of 1792, and being thoroughly divested of the adhering earth, were placed for some weeks on the floor of a cool ware-house : the sibres were then taken off, cut up, and dried on the flue of a green-llouse ; but, from mismanage-ment, were entirely spoiled. The prime roots were fevered in small pieces, peeled clean, and thoroughly cleared of every particle of unsoundness. Part was separately laid in lieves, and the remainder perforated, strung, and suspended in sestoons from the cieling of
a 
warm kitchen. The manner of dreffing conflits in pa-ring off the external coat with a sharp knife, as thin and clean as poffible, and then sinishing it off by a piece of sish skin, with its own -powder ; wliich powder may be procured from the chips and small pieces, either by grinding or pounding it in a large mortar.
In the year 1794 the Society adjudged the gold medal to Mr william Hayward of Hanbury, Oxford-shire, for propagating rhubarb by offsets taken from the crowns of large plants, instead of seeds, for the pur-pose of bringing it to perfection in a shorter time, which fully answered his expectations. Mr Hayward was
a 
candidate in the year 1789 for the gold medal ; but having misunderstood their rules, he was not entitled to it, though with great propriety they voted to him the silver medal ; in confequence of which he sent them his method of culture and cure. His method of cultiva-ting Turkey rhubarb from seed is thus explained to the Society : “ I have usually sown the feed about the beginning of February, on a bed of good foil (if rather sandy the better), exposed to an east or west aspect, in preference to the south ; observing a full sun to be prejudicial to the vegetation of the feeds, and to the plants whilst young. The seeds are best sown moderately thick (broashcast), treading them regularly in, as ia usual with parsueps and other light seeds, and then ra-king the ground smooth. I have sometimes, when the season has been wet, made a bed for sowing the rhu-barb seeds upon, about two seet thick, with new dung from · the stable, covering it near one foot thick with good foil. The intent of this bed is not for the sake of warmth, but solely to prevent the rising of earthworms, which, in a moist season, will frequently destroy the young ciop. If the seed is good, the plants often rise too thick ; if so, when they have attained six leaves they should be taken carefully up (where too close), leaving the standing crop eight or ten inches apart : those taken up may be planted at the same distance, in a fresh fpot of ground, in order to surnish other plantations. when the plants in general are grown to the sizc that cabbage-plants are usually set out for a standing crop, they are best planted where they are to remain, in beds four feet wide, one row along the middle of the bed, leaving two yards distance betwixt the
plants, allowing an alley between the beds about a foot wide, for conveniency of weeding the plants. In the autumn, when the decayed leaves are removed, if the shoveling of the alleys are thrown over the crowns of the plants, it will be found of service.
His mode of cultivating the fame plant by offsets is thus given : " On taking up some plants the laff spiing, I flipped off several offsets from the heads of large plants : these I set with a dibble about a foot apart, in order, if I found them thrive, to remove them into other beds. On examining them in the autumn, I was surprised to see the progress they had made, and pleased to be able to furnish my beds with 40 plants in the most thriving state. Though this was my sirst experiment os its kind, I do not mean to arrogate the difcovery to myself, having known it recently tried by others, but without being informed of their success. I have rea-son to think this valuable drug will, by this method, be brought much sooner to perfection than from seed.”
His method of curing rhubarb is thus described : " The plants may be taken up either early in the spring, or in autumn, when the leaves are decayed, in dry wea-ther if possible, when the roots are to be cleared from dirt (without washing) : let them be cut into pieces, and with a sharp knife freed from the outer coat, and exposed to the sun and air for a few days, to render the outside a little dry. In order to accelerate the curing of the largest pieces, a hole may be scooped out with a penknife : thefe and the smaller parts are then to be strung on packthread, and hung up in a warm room ( I have always had the conveniency of such a one over a baker’s oven), where it is to remain till perfectly dry. Each piece may be rendered more ssghtly by a common file, fixing it in a small vice during that operation : afterwards rub over it a very sine powder, which the small roots surnish in beautiful perfection, for this and every other purpose where rhubarb is required.”
In the year 1794, too, the Society adjudged the gold medal to Mr Ball for his method of curing the true rhubarb, which is as follows ; " I take the roots up when I sind the stalks withering or dying away, clean them from the earth with a dry brush, cut them in small pieces of about four or sive inches in breadth, and about two in depth, taking away all the bark, and make a hole in the middle, and string them on packthread, keeping every piece apart ; and every morning, if the weather is clear and fine, I place them in the open part of the garden, on stages, erected by fixing small posts about six feet high in the ground, and six feet asunder, into which I six horizontal pegs, about a foot apart, beginning at the top ; and the rhubarb being stringed cross-wise on small poles, I place them on these pegs ; so that if it should rain, I could easily remove each pole with the sufpended pieces, into any covered place. I never suffer them to be out at night, as the damps at this sea-son would be apt to mould them ; and if at any time I perceive the least mark of mould, I rub it off with a dry cloth. In some of the pieces of rhubarb which I have cured this year, I have made holes about half an inch diameter in the middle, for the free passage of air, and have found
that every
one of these pleces dried
better 
than the others where no such holes were made ; and have likewife hung several ffrings in the kitchen, and never exposed them in the open air, and found them to dry exceedingly well, and much better than those in the open air. Some years since I dried a quantity of rhubarb on a malt-kiln, keeping up the thermometer to 80 degrees, which answered well, but I think rather dried too quick
ί
the roots which I have cured this year are a part of the plantation of 1789, aud for which the Society was so kind as to give me a medal @@(A)
.”
RHEXIA, in botany : A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the octandria clafs of plants ; and in the natural method ranking with those of the 17th order,
Calycanthemce.
The calyx is quadrisid, with four petals inserted into it ; the antheræ are declining ; the capsule is quadrilocular, within the belly of the calyx.
RHINzANTHUS, in botany: A genus of the an-giospermia order, belonging to the didynamia class of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under the 40th order,
Perfonatœ.
The calyx is quadrisid, and ventricose ; the capsule bilocular, obtuse, and compres-fed.
RHINE, a large river of Germany, famous both in ancient and modern history. It rises among the Alpes Lepontiæ, or Grisons ; and sirst traversing the Lacus Acronius, divides the Rhæti and Vindelici from the Helvetii, and then the Germans from the Gauls and Belgæ ; and running from south to north for the greatest part of its way, and at length bending its courfe west, it empties itself at several mouths (Cæfar); at three mouths into the German ocean, (Pliny) ; viz. the weftern, or Helius ; tlie northern, or Fleuvus ; and the middle between both these, which retains the ori-ginal name,
Rhenus :
and in this Ptolemy agrees.— Mela and Tacitus mention two channels, and as many mouths, the right and left ; the former running by Germany, and the latter by Gallia Belgica : and thus also Asinius Pollio, and Virgil ; the cut or trench of Drusus not being made in their time, whereby thc middle channel was much drained and reduced, and therefore overlooked by Tacitus and Mela ; and which Pliny calls the
Scanty.
To account sor Cæfar’s several mouths, is a matter of no small difficulty with the commentators ; and they do it no otherwife than by admitting that the Rhine naturally formed small drains or rivulets from itself ; the cut of Drusus being long posterior to him ; in whose time Asinius Pollio, quoted by Strabo, who agrees with him therein, affirmed that there were but two mouths, finding sault with thofe who made them more : and he must mean the larger mouths, which emitted larger streams. The Romans, efpecially the poets, used the term
Rhenus
sor
Germany,
(Martial).—At present, the river, after entering the Netherlands at Schenkinhaus, is divided into several channels, the two largest of which obtain thc names of the
Lech
and the
Waal,
which running thro* the United Provinces, falls into the German ocean be-low Rotterdam.
@@@(a) The Society also adjudged to Mr Ball the medal in 1790, for cultivating rhubarb.
Lower Circle of the Rhine,
consists of the palatinate of the Rhine, and the three ecclesiastical electorates, viz. those of Cologne, Mentz, and Triers.
Upper Circle of the Rhine,
consisted of the landgravi-ates of Alsace and Hesse, comprehending the AVeteraw; but now only Hesse can be accounted a part of Germa-ny, Alsace being long ago .united to France.
’ RHINEBERG, a town of Germany, in the circle of the Lower Rhine, and diocese of Cologne. It was in the posseffion of the French, but restored to the archbishop of Cologne by the treaty of Utrecht. It is seated on the Rhine, in E. Long. 6. 39. N. Lat.
RHINECK, a town of Germany, in the archbi-shopric of Cologne, seated on the Rhine, E. Long. 7. ς3. N. Lat. 50. 27.—There is another town of the same name in Swisserland, capital of Rhinthal, seated on the Rhine, near the lake of Constance, with a good castle. E. Long. 9. 53. N. Lat. 47. 38,
RHINFELD, a small but strong town of Germany, in tbe circle of Suabia, and the best os the four forest-towns belonging to the house of Austria. It has been often taken and retaken in the German wars ; and is seated on tbe Rhine, over which there is a handfome bridge. E. Long. 7. 53· N. Lat. 47. 40.
RHINEGAU, a beautiful district of the electorate of Mentz, is situated on the Rhine, about three miles from the clty of Mentz, and is fo populous that lt looks like one entire town intermixed with gardens and vineyards. The Rhine here grows astonishingly wide, and forms a kmd of sea, near a msle bioad, in wsuch are several well wooded little lsiands. I lie Rhmegau forms an amphitheatre, tlie beauties of whicli are beyond all deseriptlon. At walluf, the very high hills come nearly down to the river side ; from thence they recede agam mto tlie country, formmg a kmd of half circle, the otlier end of which is'15 miles off at Rude-sheim’ θη the banks of the Rhine. she banks of the river, the hills wliicli form the circles, and the slopes os tlie great mountams, are thick sown with vil lages and hamlets. The white appearance of the buildings, and the sine blue slated roofs of the houses playing amidst the various green of the landseape, have an admirable effect. In the space of every mile, as you sail down the river, you meet with a village which in any other place would pass for a town, blany of the νιί-lages contain from 300 to 400 families ; and there are 36 of them in a space of 15 miles long and stx miles broad, which ls the width of this heautiful amphitheatre. The declivities of all the hills and mountains are planted thick with vineyards and fruit trees, and the thick wooded tops of the hills cast a gloomy horror over the otherwise cheerful landseape. Every now and then a row of rugged hills run directly down to the shore, and dommeer majcstically over the leffer hills un-der them. On one of these great mountains, just about the middle of the Rhinegau, you meet with
Johannis-Berg,
a village which produces some of the best Rhe-nism Before this village is a pretty little riling, and near the banks os the river there is a very sine old castle, which gives unspeakable majesty to the whole landseape. Indeed, in every village, you meet with some or other large building, which contributes very much to the de-
coration of the whole. This country is indebted for its 
riches to this semicirci/ar hill, which protects it from the cold winds of the east and north, at the same time that it leaves room enough for the sun to exercise his benign influences. The groves and higher Hopes of the hills make excellent pastures, and produce large quantities of dung, which, in a country of this fort, is of inestimable value.
The bank of the Rhine, opposite to tbe Rhinegau, is exceedingly barren, and heightens tbe beauty of the prospect on the other side by the contrast it exhibits ; on this side, you hardly meet above three or four villages, and these are sar distant from each other. The great interval between them is occupied by heaths and mea-dows, only here and there a thick bush affords some shade, and a few corn fields among the viliages enliven the gloomy landscape. The back ground of this coun-try is the most picturesque part of it. It is formed by a narrow gullet of mountains, which diminish in perspective between Rudesheim and Bingen. Perpendicular mountains and rocks hang over the Rhine in this place, and seem to make it the dominion of eternal night. At a distance, the Rhine seems to come out of this land-seape through a hole under ground ; and it appears to run tedioussy, in order to enjoy its course through a pleasant country the longer. Amidst the darkness which covers this back ground, the celebrated Monse tower seems to fwim upon the river. In a word, there is not any thing in this whole tract that does not contribute something to the beauty and magnificence
of
the whole ; or, if I may be permitted the expreffion, to make the paradise more welcome. As you sail along the Rhine, between Mentz and Bingen, the banks ©f the river form an oval amphitheatre, which makes one of the richest and most picturesquc landscapes to be seen in Europe. The inhabitants of these regions arer some of them extremely rich, and some extremely poor. The happy middle state is not for countries the chief product of which is wine ; sor, besides that the culti-vation of the vineyard is insinitely more troublesoma and expensive than agriculture, it is subjected to revolutions, which in an instant reduce the holder of land to the condition of a day-labourer. It is a great mis-fortune for this country, that, though restrained by law,, the nobility are, through connivance of the Elector, allowed to purchase as much land as they please. The peasant generally begins by running in debt for his vineyard ; so that if it does not turn out well, he is reduced to day-labour, and the rich man extends his pos-seffions to the great detriment of the conntry. There are several peasants here, who having incomes of 30, 50, or ιοο,οοο guilders a-year, have laid aside the pea-sant, and affumed the wine-merchant ; but, splendid as their situation is, it does not compensatb, in the eyes of the humane man, for the sight of so many poor people with which the villages swarm. In order to render a country of this kind prosperous, the state should ap-propriate a fund to the purpose of maintaining the pea-sant in bad years, and giving him the assistance which his neceffities, and his want of ready money, may from time to time make convenient.
The inhabitants of the Rhinegau are a handsome and uncommonly strong race of men. You see at the very sirst aspect that their wine gives them merry hearts and sound bodies. They have a great deal of natural wit, 
and a vivacity and jocoseness, which distinguishes them
very much from their neighbours. You need only compare them with some of these, to be convinced that the drinker of wine excels the drinker of beer and water, both in body and mind, and that the inhabitant of the south is much ssouter than he who lives in the north ; for though the wine drinker may not have quite as much flesh as he who drinks only beer, he has better blood, and can bear much more work. Tacitus had already observed this, in his treatise
De moribus Germanorum.
“ The large and corpulent bodies of the Germans (says he) have a great appearance, but are not made to last.” At that time almost all the Germans drank only water ; but the mere drinking of wine has effected a revolution in several parts of Germany, which makes the present inhabitants of these countries very different from those described by Tacitus. Black and brown hair is much commoner here than the white, which made the Germans so famous in old Rome. “ It wili be easily imagined (says Baron Reisheck), that the monks fare particularly well in fo rich a country, we made a visit to the prelate of Erbach. These lordly monks, for so in every respect they are, have an excellent hunt, rooms magnificently furnished, billiard tables, half a dozen beautiful singing women, and a stu-pendous wine cellar, the well ranged batteries of which made me shudder. A monk, who saw my asto-nishment at the number of the casks, affured me, that, without the benign influence which flowed from them, it would be totally impoffible for the cloister to subsist 
in
fo damp a situation.”
RHINFELS, a castle of Germany, in the circle os the Lower Rhine, in a county of the same name. It is looked upon as one of the most important places seated on the Rhine, as well in regard to its strength as situation. It is near St Goar, and built on a craggy rock. This fortrefs commands the whole breadth of the Rhine, and those who pass are always obliged to pay a considerable toll. In the time of war it is of great importance to be masters of this place. E. Long. 7. 43. N. Lat. 50. 3.
RHINLAND, a name given to a part of South Holland, which lies on both sides the Rhine, and of which Leyden is the capital town.
RHINOCEROS, in zoology, a genus of quadrupeds belonging to the order of belluæ. The name is entirely Greek ; but these animals were totally unknown to the ancient Greeks. Aristotle takes no notice of them, nor any other Greek writer till Strabo, nor Roman till Pliny. It is probable they did not frequent that part of India into which Alexander had penetrated, since it was near 300 years after that Pompey brought them to Europe. From this time till the days of Heliogabalus, the rhinoceros was frequently exhibited in the Roman spectacles ; and he has often been transported into Europe in more modern times ; but they were long very ill represented, and very imperfectly de-scribed, till some that arrived in London in 1739 and 1741 were inspected, by which the errors and caprices of former writers were detected.
Ί here are two species of rhinoceros, the sirst of which is the
unicornis,
the length of which, Buffon tells us, from the extremity of the muzzle to the origin of the tail, is at least 12 seet, and the circumference of the body is nearly the same. " The rhinoceros which came to London in the year 1739 was sent from Bengal. Though not above two years of age, the expence of his food and journey amounted to near L. 1000 Sterling. He was fed with rice, sugar, and hay. He had daily seven pounds of rice, mixed with three pounds of sugar, and divided into three portions. He had likewife hay and green herbs, which last he preferred to hay. His drink was water, of which he took large quantities at a time @@(A). He was of a peaceable disposition, and allowed all parts of his body to be touched, when hungry, or struck by any per-son, he became misehievous, and in both cases nothing appeased him but food, when enraged, he sprung forward, and nimbly raised himself to a great height, pushing at the same time his head suriouily against the walls, which he performed with amazing quickness, notwithstanding his heavy aspect and unwieldy mass. I often observed, says Dr Parsons, these movements produced by rage or impatience, especially in the mornings before his rice and sugar were brought to him. The vivacity and promptitude of his movements, Dr Parsons adds, led me to think, that he is altogether unconquerable, and that he could easily overtake any man who should offend him.
" This rhinoceros, at the age of two years, was not taller than a young cow that has never produced. But his body was very long and very thick. His head was disproportionally large. From the ears to the horn there is a concavity, the two extremities of which, namely the upper end of the muzzle, and the part near the ears, are considerably raised. The horn, which was not yet above an'inch high, was black, smooth at thc top, but full of wrinkles directed backward at the base. The nostrils are situated very low, being not above an inch distant from the opening of the mouth. The under lip is pretty similar to that of the ox ; but the upper lip has a greater resemblance to that of the hoise, with this advantageous difference, that the rhinoceros can lengthen this lip, move it from side to fide, roll it about a stass, and seize with it any object he wishes to carry to liis mouth. Tlie tongue of tliis young rhinoceros was soft, like that of a calf. His eyes had no vivacity : In figure they resembled those of tlie hog, and were situated lower, or nearer the nostrils, than in any other quadruped. His ears are large, thin at the extremities, and contracted at their origin by a kind of annular rugosity. I'he neck is very short, and surronnded with two large folds of skin. The shoulders aie very thick, and at their juncture there is another fold os skin, whieh deseends upon the fore legs. The body of this young rhinoceros was very thick, and pretty much resembled that os a cow about to bring sorth. Between the body and crupper there is another fold, which deseends upon the hind legs, Lastly, another fold tranfverfely surrounds the inferior part of the crupper, at some distance from the tail. The belly was large, and hung near the ground, particularly its middle part. The legs are round, thick, strong, and
@@@(a) " Their food in a state of nature is the grossest herbs, as thistles and thorny shrubs, which they prefer to bhe foft pasture of the best meadows ; they are fond of the sugar cane, and eat all kinds of grain, but for flesh they have no appetite.”
their joint bended backwards. This joint, which, when the animal lies, is covered with a remarkable fold of the skin, appears when he stands. The tail is thin, and proportionally short ; that of the rhinoceros so often mentioned, exceeded not 16 or 17 inches in length. It turns a little thicker at the extremity, which is gar-nished with some short, thick, hard hairs. The form of the penis is very extraordinary. It is contained in a prepuce or sheath like that of the horse ; and the sirst thing that appears in the time of erection is a fecond prepuce, of a ssesh-colour, from which there iffues a hollow tube, in the form of a funnel cut and bordered fomewhat like a flower-de-luce, and constitutes tlie glans and extremity of the penis. This anomalous glans is of à paler ssesh-colour than the second prepuce. Tn the most vigorous erection, tlie penis extends not above eight inches out of the body ; and it is easily procured by rubbing the animal witli a liandsul of straw wlien lie lies at his ease. The direction of this organ is not straiglit, but bended backward. Hence lie throws out his urine behind ; and from this circumstance, it may be inferred that the male covers not the female, but that they unite with their cruppers to each other. The female organs are situated like those of the cow ; and she exactly resembles the male in sigure and groffness of body. The skin is so thick and impenetrable, that when a man lays hold of any of the folds, he would imagine he is touching a wooden plank of half an inch thick @@(b). when tanned, Dr Grew remarks, it is exceffively hard, and thicker than the hide of any other terrestrial animal. It is everywhere covered more or less with in-erustations in the form of galls or tuberosities, which are pretty small on the top of the neck and back, but become larger on the sides. The largest are on the shoul-ders and crupper, are still pretty large on the thighs and legs, upon which they are spread all round, and even on thc feet. But between the folds thc skin is penetrable, delicate, and as soft to the touch as silk, while the external part of the fold is equally hard with the rest. This tender skin between the folds is of a light flesh-colour ; and the skin of the belly is nearly of the same colour and consistence. These galls or tubero-sities should not be compared, as fome authors have done, to scales. They are only stmple indurations of the skin, without any regularity in their sigure or symmetry in their respective positions. The flexibility of the skin in the folds enables the rhinoceros to move with facility his head, neck, and members. The whole body, except at the joints, is inflexible, and resembles a coat of mail. Dr Parsons remarks, that this animal listened with a deep and long continued attention to any kind of noise ; and that, though he was sseeping,
eating, or obeying any other preffing, demands of nature, he raifed his head, aud listened till the noise ceased.”
These animals never affemble or march together in troops like elephants. Being of a more solitary and sa-vage disposition, they are more difficult to hunt and to overcome. They never attack men, however, except when they are provoked, when they are very furious and formidable ; but as they fee only before them,; and
not very sharply, and as they turn with great difficulty, they may be easily avoided. The skin of these animals is so extremely hard as to resist sabres, lances, javelins, and even musket balls, the only penetrable parts being the belly, the eyes, and about the ears. Hence the hunters generally attack them wlien they lie down to sleep.— Their slesh is considered as excellent hy the Indians and Africans, but especially by the Hottentots ; and if they were trained when young, they might be rendered, domestic, in which case they would multiply more eastly than the elephant. They inhabit Bengal, Siam, Col-chin-China, Quangsi in China, the isles of Java and· Sumatra, Congo, Angola, Ethiopia, and the country as low as the Cape. They love shady forests, the neigh-bourhood of rivers, and marshy places. They wallow in the mire like hogs, and are said by that means to give shelter in the folds of their skins to scorpions, centipedes, and other infects. This is denied by Buffon and Ed-wards, though the surgeon of the Shafteshury had ob-served in a rhinoceros, newly taken after having welter-ed in the mud, several infects concealed under the ply of the skin. This carries with it every appearance of probability ; for as the creature welters in mud, it is impoffible for it to do so without bringing up with it some of the infects which live in that mud ; and when this is the case, it surely cannot be unnatural to suppose that they would shelter themselves under the plaits of the skin. Mr Bruce had an opportunity of examining the skin of a rhinoceros before his muddy covering had been scraped off, and saw under it several very large worms, but not of the carnivorous kind. He saw like-wise several smaller animals resembling car-wigs, which he took to be young fcolopendræ ; and, though he searched no farther, we must certainly conslder this as a proof of what the surgeon of the Shafteshury re-lated. Mr Bruce supposes, too, that they welter in mire, partly in order to sereen themselves by a case of mud from the attacks of that mischievous fly which in-fests the animals of Abyffinia to filch a degree. " The time of the fly (says he) being in the rainy season, the whole black earth turns into mire.- In the night, when the fly is at rest, the rhinoceros chooses a convenient place, and there, rolling himself in tlie mud, he clothes himself with a kind of case, which defends him against his enemy the following day. The wrinkles and plaits of his skin serve to keep this muddy plaster sirm up-on him, all but about his hips, shoulders, and legs,, where it cracks and falls off by motion, and leaves hime exposed in those places to the attacks of the fly. The itching and pain which follow occasion him to rub him-self in those parts against the roughest trees ; and this is at least one cause of the pustules or tubercles whichi we see upon these places, both on the elephant and rhino-ceros.” They bring forth only one young at
a
time,, about which they are very solicitous- They are said to confort with tygers ; a story founded merely on their common attachment t© the sides of rivers, by which, means they are often found near each other. Their skin,, flesh, hoofs, teeth, and even dung, are used in India me·· dicinally. The horn, especially that of a virgin rhino-· ceros, is considered as an antidote against poison. Every
@@@(b)
This Mr Bruce denies to be the case, and suspects, where it does occur, that it is the effect of disease, or ©sa different habit acquired by keeping. In their natural state, he thinks they prevent this rigidity by wallowing· ia the mud.
Born, however, has not this property; feme of them sell-ing very cheap, while others are extremely dear.
Some writers are of opinion, that the rhinoceros is the unicorn of holy writ and of the ancients, and that the oryx or Indian ass of Aristotie, who says it has but one horn, was the same, his informers comparing the clutnsy shape of the rhinoceros to that of the ass.— It was also the
bos unicornis
and
fera monoceros
of Pliny, both of which were of India and in his account of the monoceros he exactly describes the great black horn and hog-like tail. The unicorn of Scripture is confidered as having all the properties of the rhinoceros, as rage, untameableness, great swiftness, and vast strength. This opinion is most ably supported by Mr Bruce. " The derivation of the Hebrew word
reem
(says he), which in our version is translated
unicorn,
both in the Hebrew and the Ethiopic, seems to be from ereôfnefs, or handing straight. This is certainly no particular quality in the animal itself, who is not more or even so much erect as many other quadrupeds, sor in its knees it is rather crooked; but it is from the circumstance and manner in which itshorn is placed. The horns of all other animals are inclined to some degree of parallelism with his nose or os frontis. '1 he horn of the rhinoceros is erect and perpendicular to this bone, on which it stands at right angles, thereby possessing a greater purchase or power, as a lever, than an horn could poffibly have in any other position. The situation of the horn is very happily alluded to in Scripture ; ‘ My horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn.’ And the horn here alluded to is not wholly figurative, but was really an ornament worn by great men in the days of victory, preferment, or rejoicing, when they were anointed with new, sweet, or fresh oil ; a circumstance which David joins with that of erecting the horn.
" Some authors, for what reason I know not, have made the reem, or unicorn, to be of the deer or antelope kind ; that is, of a genus whose very character is fear and weaknefs, directly opposite to the qualities by which the reem is described in Scripture : besides, it is plain that the reem is not of the class of clean quadru-peds ; and a late modern traveller very wllimsically takes him for the leviathan, which certainly was a sish. Balaam, a priest of Midian, and so in the neighbourhood of the haunts of the rhinoceros, and intimately connected with Ethiopia, (for they themselves were shepherds of that country), in a transport, from contemplating the strength of Israel, whom he was brought to curse, says, they had, as it were, the strength os the reem. Job makes frequent allusion
to
his great strength, ferocity, and indocility. He asks, 'Will the reem be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib ?’ that is, Will lie willingly come into thy stable, and eat at thy manger ? And again, ‘ Canst thou bind the reem witli a band in the furrow ; and will lie harrow tlie valleys sor thee ?’— In other words, Canst thou make him go to the plough or harrows?
" The rhinoceros, in Geez, is called
A rave Harich,
and in the Amharic
Auraris ;
both which names signisy ‘ the large wild beast with the horn.’ This would seem as if applied to the species witli one horn. On the other hand, in the conntry of the Shangalla and in Nubia he is called
Girnamgim,
or ‘ horn upon horn;’ and this would seem to denote that he had two. The Ethiopic text renders the word
reem,
‘ Arwe-Harich and this the Septuagint tianssates
monoceros,
or
unicorn.
The principal reason of transiating the word
unicorn
rather than 
rhinoceros,
is from ?. prejudice that he must have had but one horn. But this is by no means so well founded as to be admitted the only argument for establishing
tlie 
existence of an animal, which never has appeared after the search of so many ages. Scripture speaks of tlie horns of tlie unicorn ; fo that even from this circumstance tlie reem may be the rhinoceros, as tlie Asiatic, and part of tlie African rhinoceros, may be the unicorn.”
Tlie rhinoceros bicornis was long known in Europe merely by the double horns wliich were preferved in va-rious cabinets ; and its existence, though now past all doubt, has been frequently questioned. Dr Sparman, in his voyage to the Cape of Good Hope, killed two of these animals, wliicli he diffected, and very minutely describes. The horns, lie says, in the live animal are so mobile and looie, that wlien it walks carelessly along, one may see tliem waggle about, and hear them clash and clatter against each other. In tlie Phil. Trans. sor 1793, we have a description of tlie double-horned rhinoceros of Sumatra, by Mr Bell, surgeon in the service of the East India Company at Bencoolen ; and this account, though it differs considerably from that of Sparman in some particulars, we shall infert here. “ The animal (says· Mr Bell) herein defcribed was shot with a leaden ball· from a musket about ten miles from Fort Marlborough.
I saw it the day after ; it was then not in the least pu-trid, and I put it into the position from which the accompanying drawing was made. (See Plate ccccxxxvm.) It was a male ; the height at the shoulder was 4 feet 4 inches ; at the sacrum nearly the same ; from the tip of the nose to the end of the tail eight feet five inches.— From the appearance of its teeth and bones it was but young, and probably not near its full size. The shape of the animal was much like that of the hog. The ge-neral colour was a brownish ash ; under the belly, be-tween the legs and folds of the skin, a dirty ssesh co-lour. The head much resembled that of the Angle horned rhinoceros ; the eyes were small, of a brown colour j the
membrana nictitans
thick and strong : the skin fur-rounding the eyes was wrinkled ; the nostrils were wide;, the upper lip was pointed, and hanging over the under.
" There were fix
molares,
or grinders, on each side of the upper and lower jaw, becoming gradually larger backward, particularly in the upper ; two teeth in the front of each jaw ; the tongue was quite smooth ; the ears were small and pointed, lined and edged with short black hair, and situated like those of the single-horned rhinoceros. The horns were black, the larger was placed immediately above the nose, pointing upwards,, and was bent a little back; it was about nine inches-long. The small horn was four inches long, of a pyra-midal shape, flattened a little, and placed above the eyes, rather a little more forward, standing in a line with the larger-horn, immediately above it. They were both firmly attached to the skull, nor was there any appear-ance of joint or muscles to move them @@(C). The neck was thick and short, the skin on the under side thrown in
@@@(C) Mr Bruce, however, says, that in the living animal the horns are extremely sensible. He informs us,
to folds, and these folds again wrinkled. The body was bulky and round, and from the shoulder ran a line, or fold, as in the single-horned rhinoceros, though it was but faintly marked. There were several other folds and wrinkles on the body and legs ; and the whole gave rather the appearance of softness : the legs were thick, short, and remarkably strong· ; the feet armed with three distinct hoofs, of a blackish colour, which surrounded half the foot, one in front, the others on each side.— The soles of the feet were convex, of a light colour, and the cuticle on them not thicker than that on the foot of a man who is used to walking ; the testicles Hardly appeared externally ; the penis was bent backward, and opened about 18 inches below the anus. At its origin it was as thick as a man’s leg, and about two feet and a half long ; the bend in it occasions the urine to be discharged backwards. The glans is very singular ; the opening of the urethra is like the mouth of a cup with its brim bending over a little and is about three quarters of an inch in diameter ; the glans here is about half an inch in diameter, and continues that thick-ness for an inch and a half : it is then inserted into another cup like the first, but three times as large ; the glans afterwards gradually becomes thicker, and at about nine inches from the opening of the urethra are placed two bodies on the upper part of the glans, very like the nipples of a milch-cow, and as large ; these become turgid when the penis is erected ; the whole of this is contained in the prepuce, and may be considered as glans. From the os pubis arises a strong muscle, which soon becomes tendinous : this tendon is continued along the back or upper part of the penis ; it is flattened, is about the size of a man’s little finger, and is inserted into the upper part of the glans, near the end. The use of this muscle is to straiten the penis. On the under side of the penis there are two muscles, antagonists to the above ; they arise from the os ifchium fleshy, run along tlie lower side of the penis, on each side of the corpus spongiosum, and are inserted fleshy into the lower side of the glans ; the action of these muscles will draw in the penis, and bend it. The male has two nipples, like the female, situated between the hind legs; they are about half an inch in length, of a pyramidal form, rounded at the end.
" The whole skin of the animal is rough, and covered very thinly with short black hair. The skin was not more than one third of an inch in thickness at the strongest part ; under the belly it was hardly a quarter of an inch ; any part of it might be cut through with ease by a common dissecting knife. The animal had not that appearance of armour which is observed in the single-horned rhinoceros. Since I dissected the male, I have had an opportunity of examining a female, which was more of a lead colour : it was younger than the male, and had not so many folds or wrinkles in its skin; of course it had still less the appearance of armour. The only external mark which distinguishes it from the male is the vagina, which is close to the anus ; whereas in the male the opening for the penis is 18 inches below the anus.”
From the difference between this account and Spar-man’s, which in some particulars is considerable, and from the difference of shape, we are disposed to think them varieties. Mr Bruce’s drawing of the rhinoceros bicornis is unquestionably a deception ; the body of the animal, as there represented, corresponds exactly with that of the unicornis except in its having two horns on its head. In the museum of the late Dr William Hunter, the two-horned animal was preserved, agreeing exactly with the general accounts and figures we have of that animal, but differing essentially from Mr Bruce’s. For further particulars respecting these curious animals, we refer to Buffon, vol. vi. p. 92—117 ; Sparman's Voyage to the Cape, vol. ii. chap. 12.; and Bruce’s Travels, vol. iv. p. 296, &c. and Appendix, p. 85, &c.
RHINOCEROS-Bird.
See Buceros.
RHITΥΜΝΑ. Sec RETIMO.
RHIZOBALUS, in botany : A genus of the te-
tragynia order, belonging to the polyandria class of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under the 23d order,
Trihilatœ.
The calyx monophyllous, fleshy, and downy ; the corolla consists of five petals, which are round, concave, fleshy, and much larger than the calyx ; the stamina are very numerous, filiform, and longer than the corolla ; the styli are four, filiform, and of the length of the stamina ; the pericarpium has four drupæ, kidney-shaped, compreffed with a fleshy sub-stance inside, and in the middle a flat large nut con-taining a kidney shaped kernel. Of this there is only one species, viz.
Pekia.
The nut is fold in the shops as American nuts ; they are flat, tuberculated, and kid-ney-shaped, containing a kernel of the same shape, which is sweet and agreeable. Clusius gives a good figure of the nut, and Aublet has one of the whole plant.
RHIZOPHORA, the mangrove, or
Mangle,
in bo-tany : A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the dodecandria class of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under the 12th order,
Holoraceœ.
The calyx is quadripartite, the corolla partite; there is one seed, very long, and carnous at the base. These plants are natives of the East and west Indies, and often grow 40 or 50 feet high. They grow only in water and 011 the banks of rivers, where the tide flows up twice a-day. They preserve the verdure of their leaves throughout the year. From the lowest branches iffue long roots, which hang down to the water, and penetrate into the earth. In this position they resemble so many arcades, from five to ten feet high, which serve to support the body of the tree, and even to advance it daily into the bed of the water. These arcades are so closely intertwisted one with another, that they form a kind of natural and transparent terrace, raised with such solidity over the water, that one might walk upon them, were it not that the branches are too much encumbered with leaves. The most natural way of propagating these trees, is to suffer the several slender small filaments which issue from the main branches to take root in the earth. The most common method, however, is that of laying the small lower branches in baskets of mould or earth till they have taken root.
The description just given pertains chiefly to a particular species of mangrove, termed hy the west In-
that once at a hunting match he saw the point of a rhinoceros’s horn broken off by a musket-shot; the consequence of which was, that the creature was for a moment deprived of all appearance of life.
dians
black mangles,
on account of the brown dusky colour of the wood. The bark is very brown, smooth, pliant when green, and generally used in the west In-dia islands for tanning of leather. Below this bark lies a cuticle, or skin, which is lighter, thinner, and more tender. The wood is nearly of the same colour as the bark ; hard, pliant, and very heavy. It is frequently used for fuel, for which purpose it is said to Be remark-ably proper: the fires which are made of this wood being both clearer, more ardent and durable than those made of any other materials whatever.—The wood is compact; almost incorruptible ; never splinters ; is easily worked; and were it not for its enormous weight, would be commodiously employed in almost all kinds of work, as it possesses every property of good timber. To the roots and branclies of mangroves that are immersed in the water, oysters frequently attach themselves ; so that wherever this curious plant is found growing on the sea-shore, oyfter-fishing is very easy ; as in such cafes these shell-fifh may be literally said to be gathered upon trees.
The red mangle or mangrove grows on tlie sea-shore, and at the mouth of large rivers ; but does not advance, like the former, into the water. It generally rises to the height of 20 or 30 feet, with crooked, knotty branches, which proceed from all parts of the trunk. The balk is slender, of a brown colour, and, when young, is smooth, and adheres very closely to the wood ; but when old, appears quite cracked, and is easily detached from it. Under this bark is a skin as thick as parchment, red, and adhering closely to the wood, from which it cannot be detached till the tree is felled and dry. The wood is hard, compact, heavy, of a deep red, with a very fine grain. The pith or heart of the wood being cut into small pieces, and boiled in water, imparts a very beautiful red to the li-quid, which communicates the same colour to wool and linen. The great weight and hardness of the wood prevents it from being generally used. From the fruit of this tree, which, when ripe, is of a violet colour, and resembles some grapes in taste, is prepared an agreeable liquor, much esteemed by the inhabitants of the Caribbee issands.
white mangle, so termed from the colour of its wood, grow, like the two former, upon the banks of rivers, but is seldom found near the sea. The bark is grey ; the wood, as we have said, white, and when green, supple ; but dries as soon as cut down, and be-comes very light and brittle. This species is generally called
rope-mangrove,
from the use to which the bark is applied by the inhabitants of the west Indies. This bark, which, by reason of the great abundance of sap, is easily detached when green from the wood, is beaten or bruised betwixt two stones, until the hard and woody part is totally separated from that which is soft and tender. This last, which is the true cortical substance, 
is
twisted into ropes of all sizes, which are exceedingly strong, and not apt to rot in the water.
RHODES, a celebrated island in the Archipelago, the largest and most easterly of the Cyclades, was known in ancient times by the names of
Asteria, 0-phiusa, Æthrœa, Trinacria, Corymbia, Poessa, Atabyria, Marcia, Oloessa, Stadia Telchinis, Pelagia,
and
Rhodus. 
In later ages, the name of
Rhodus,
or
Rhodes,
prevailed, from the Greek word
rhodon,
as is commonly sup-
posed, signifying a " rose the island abounding very much with these flowers. Others, however, give differ-ent etymologies, among which it is difficult to find one preferable to another. It is about 20 miles distant from the coasts of Lycia and Caria, and about 120 miles in compass.
Several ancient authors assert, that Rhodes was formerly covered by the sea, but gradually raised its head above the waves, aud became au island. Delos and Rhodes (says Pliny), islands which have long been * celebrated, sprung at first from the sea. The same fact is supported by such a variety of other evidence as render it indubitable. Philo f ascribes the event to the decrease of the waters of the ocean. If his conjecture be not without foundation, most of the isles of the Archipelago, being lower than Rhodes, must have had a
 
similar origin. But it is much more probable that the volcanic fires, which in the fourth year of the 135th O-lympiad, raised Therasia and Thera, known at present by the name of
Santorin,
from the depths of the sea, and have in our days thrown out several small issands adjacent, also produced in some ancient era Rhodes and Delos.
The first inhabitants of Rhodes, according to Diodorus Siculus, were called the
Telchinœ,
who came originally from the island of Crete. These, by their skill in astrology, perceiving that the island was soon to be drowned with water, left their habitations, and made room for the Heliades, or grandsons of Phœbus, who took possession of the island after that god had cleared it from the water and mud with which it was over-whelmed. These Heliades, it seems. excelled all other men in learning, and especially in astrology ; invented navigation, &c. In after ages, however, being infest-ed with great serpents which bred in the issand, they had recourse to an oracle in Delos, which advised them to admit Phorbas, a Thessalian, with his followers, into Rhodes. This was accordingly done ; and Phorbas having destroyed the serpents, was, after his death, honoured as a demigod. Afterwards a colony of Cretans settled in some part of the issand, and a little before the Trojan war, Tlepolinius the son of Hercules, who was made king of the whole island, and governed with great justice and moderation.
After the Trojan war, all the ancient inhabitants were driven out by the Dorians, who continued to be masters of the island for many ages. The government was at first monarchical ; but a little before the expedition of Xerxes into Greece, a republican form of go-vernment was introduced ; during which the Rhodians applied themselves to navigation, and became very powerful by sea, planting several colonies in distant. countries. In the time of the Peloponnesian war, the republic of Rhodes was rent into two factions, one of which favoured the Athenians, and another the Spar-tans ; but at length the latter prevailing, democracy was abolished, and an aristocracy introduced. About 351 B. C. we sind the Rhodians oppressed by Mauso-lus king of Caria, and at last reduced by Artemisia his widow. In this emergency, they applied to the Athenians ; by whose assistance, probably, they regained their liberty.
From this time to that of Alexander the Great, the Rhodians enjoyed an uninterrupted tranquillity. To him they voluntarily submitted ; and were on that ac
count highly favoured by him : but no sooner did they hear of
his death, than they drove out the Macedonian garrisons, and once more became a free people. About this time happened a dreadful inundation at Rhodes ; which, being accompanied with violent storms of rain, and hailstones of an extraordinary bigness, beat down many houses, and killed great numbers of the inhabitants. As the city was built in the form of an amphitheatre, and no care had been taken to clear the pipes and conduits which conveyed the water into the sea, the lower parts of the city were in an instant laid under water, several houses quite covered, and the inha-bitants drowned before they could get to the higher places. As the deluge increased, and the violent showers continued, some of the inhabitants made to their ships, and abandoned the place, while others miserably perished in the waters. But while the city was thus threatened with utter destruction, the wall on a sudden burst asunder, and the water discharging itself by a violent current into the sea, unexpectedly delivered the inhabitants from all danger.
The Rhodians suffered greatly by this unexpected accident, but soon retrieved their losses by a close application to trade. During the wars which took place among the successors of Alexander, the Rhodians ob-served a strict neutrality ; by which means they enriched themselves so much, that Rhodes became one of the most opulent states of that age ; insomuch that, for the common good of Greece, they undertook the
piratic war,
and, at their own charge, cleared the seas of the pirates who had for many years infested the coasts of Europe and Asia. However, notwithstanding the neu-trality they professed, as the most advantageous branch-es of their commerce were derived from Egypt, they were more attached to Ptolemy, king of that country, than to any of the neighbouring princes, when there-fore Antigonus, having engaged in a war with Ptolemy about the island of Cyprus, demanded succours of them, they earnestly intreated him not to compel them to de-clare war against their ancient friend and ally. But this answer, prudent as it was, drew upon them the displeasure of Antigonus, who immediately ordered one of his admirals to sail with his fleet to Rhodes, and seize all the ships that came out of the harbour for Egypt. The Rhodians, finding their harbour blocked up by tlie fleet of Antigonus, equipped a good number of galleys, fell upon the enemy, and obliged him, with tlie loss of many ships, to quit his station. Hereupon Antigonus, charging them as aggressors, and beginners -of an unjust war, threatened to besiege their city with the strength of his whole army. The Rhodians endeavoured by frequent embassies to appease his wrath ; but all their remonstrances served rather to provoke than allay his resentment : and the only terms upon which he would hearken to any accommodation were, that the Rhodians should declare war against Ptolemy, that they should admit his fleet into their harbour, and that an hundred of the chief citizens should be delivered up to him as hostages for the performance of these articles. The Rhodians sent ambassadors to all their allies, and to Ptolemy in particular, imploring their assistance, and representing to the latter, that their attachment to his interest had drawn upon them the danger to which they were exposed. The prepartions on both sides were immense. As Antigonus was near fourscore years of
 
age at that time, he committed the whole management of the war to his son Demetrius, who appeared before the city of Rhodes with 200 ships of war, 170 trans-ports having on board 40,000 men, and 1000 other vessels laden with provisions and all sorts of warlike engines. As Rhodes had enjoyed for many years a pro-found tranquillity, and been free from all devastations, the expectation of booty, in the plunder of so wealthy a city, allured multitudes of pirates and mercenaries to join Demetrius in this expedition ; insomuch that the whole sea between the continent and the island was covered with ships ; which struck the Rhodians, who had a prospect of this mighty armada from the walls, with great terror and consternation.
Demetrius, having landed his troops without the reach of the enemy’s machines, detached several small bodies to lay waste the country round the city, and cut down the trees and groves, employing the timber, and materials of the houses without the walls, to fortify his camp with strong ramparts and a treble palisade ; which work, as many hands were employed, was finished in a few days. The Rhodians, on their part, prepared for a vigorous defence. Many great commanders, who had signalized themselves on other occasions, threw themfelves into the city, being desirous to try their skill in military affairs against Demetrius, who was reputed one of the most experienced captains in the conduct of sieges that antiquity had produced. The besieged began with dismissing from the city all such persons as were useless ; and then taking an account of those who were capable of bearing arms, they found that the citizens amounted to 6000, and the foreigners to 1000. Liberty was promised to all the slaves who should distinguish themselves by any glorious action, and the public engaged to pay the masters their full ransom. A proclamation was likewise made, declaring, that whoever died in defence of their country should be buried at the expence of the public ; that his parents and children should be maintained out of the treasury ; that fortunes should be given to his daughters ; and his sons, when they were grown up, should be crowned and presented with a complete suit of armour at the great solemnity of Bacchus ; which decree kindled an incre-dible ardour in all ranks of men.
Demetrius, having planted all his engines, began to batter with incredible fury the walls on the side of the harbour ; but was for eight days successively repulsed by the besieged, who set sire to most of his warlike en-gines, and thereby obliged him to allow them some respite, which they made good use of in repairing the breaches, and building new walls where the old ones were either weak or low. when Demetrius had repaired his engines, he ordered a general assault to be made, and caused his troops to advance with loud shouts, thinking by this means to strike terror into the enemy. But the besieged were so sar from being intimidated, that they repulsed the aggressors with great slaughter, and performed the most astonishing feats of bravery. Demetrius returned to the assault next day ; but was in the fame manner forced to retire, after having lost a great number of men, and some officers of distinction. He had seized, at his sirst landing, an eminence at a fmall distance from the city ; and, having fortified this advantageous post, he caused several batteries to be erected there, with engines, which incessantly discharged
against the walls stones of 150 pounds weight. The towers, being thus furiously battered night and day, began to totter, and several breaches were opened in the walls : but the Rhodians, unexpectedly sallying out, drove the enemy from their post, overturned their machines, and made a most dreadful havock ; insomuch that some of them retired on board their vessels, and were with much ado prevailed upon to come ashore again.
Demetrius now ordered a scalade by sea and land at the same time ; and so employed the besieged, that they were at a loss what place they should chiefly de-fend. The attack was carried on with the utmost fury on
all sides, and the besieged defended themselves with the greatest intrepidity. Such of the enemy as advan-ced first were thrown down from the ladders, and mi-serably bruised. Several of the chief officers, having mounted the walls to encourage the soldiers by their example, were there either killed or taken prison-ers. After the combat had lasted many hours, with great slaughter on both sides, Demetrius, notwith-standing all his valour, thought it necessary to retire, in order to repair his engines, and give his men some days reft,
Demetrius being sensible that he could not reduce the city till he was master of the port, after having refreshed his men, he returned with new vigour against the fortifications which defended the entry into the harbour, when he came within the cast of a dart, he caused a vast quantity of burning torches and firebrands to be thrown into the Rhodian ships, which were riding there ; and at the fame time galled, with dreadful showers of darts, arrows, and stones, such as offered to extinguish the flames. However, in spite of their utmost efforts, the -Rhodians put a stop to the fire ; and, having with great expedition manned three of their strongest ships, drove with such violence against the vessels on which the enemy’s machines were planted, that they were shattered in pieces, and the engines dismounted and thrown into the sea. Excestus the Rhodian admiral, being encouraged by this succefs, attacked the enemy’s fleet with his three ships, and sunk a great many vessels ; but was himself at last taken prisoner : the other two vessels made their escape, and
regained the port.
As unfortunate as this last attack had proved to De-metrius, he determined to undertake another ; and, in order to succeed in his attempt, he ordered a machine of a new invention to be built, which was thrice the height and breadth of those he had lately lost. when the work was finished, he caused the engine to be placed near the port, which he was resolved, at all adventures, to force. But as it was upon the point of entering the harbour, a dreadful storm arising, drove it against the shore, with the vessels on which it had been reared. The besieged, who were attentive to improve all favourable conjunctures, while the tempest was still raging, made a sally against those who defended the eminence mentioned above ; and, though repulsed several times, carried it at last, obliging the Demetrians, to the number of 400, to throw down their arms and submit. After this victory gained by the Rhodians, there arrived to their aid 150 Gnos-sians, and 500 men fent by Ptolemy from Egypt, most of them being natives of Rhodes
,
who had served
 
among the king’s troops.
Demetrius being extremely mortified to
see all his batteries against the harbour rendered ineffectual, re-solved to employ them by land, in hopes of carrying the city by assault, or at least reducing it to the necessity of capitulating, with this view, having got together a
vast quantity of timber and other materials, he framed the famous engine called
helepolis, 
which was by many degrees larger than any that, had ever been invented before. Tts basis was fquare, each side being in length near 50 cubits, and made up of square pieces of timber, bound together with plates of iron. In the middle part he placed thick planks, about a cubit distance from each other ; and on these the men were to stand who forced the engine forward. The whole was moved upon eight strong and large wheels, whose felloes were strengthened with strong iron plates. In order to facilitate and vary the move-ments of the helepolis, casters were placed under it, whereby it was turned in an instant to what side the workmen and engineers pleased. From each of the four angles a large pillar of wood was carried to about the height of 100 cubits, and inclining to each other; the whole machine consisting of nine stories, whose dimensions gradually lessened in the ascent. The first story was supported by 43 beams, and the last by no more than nine. Three sides of the machine were plated over with iron, to prevent its being damaged by the fire that might be thrown from the city. In the front of each story were windows of the same size and shape as the engines that were to be discharged from thence. To each window were shutters, to draw up for the defence of those who managed the machines, and to deaden the force of the stones thrown by the enemy, the shutters being covered with skins stuffed with wool. Every story was furnished with two large staircases, that whatever was necessary might be brought up by one, while others were going down by the other, and so every thing may be dispatched without tumult or confusion. This huge machine was moved forwards by 3000 of the strongest men of the whole army ; but the art with which it was built greatly facilitated the motion. Demetrius caused likewise to be made several testudoes or pent houses, to cover his men while they advanced to sill up the trenches and ditches ; and invented a new sort of galleries, through which those who were employed at the siege might pass and re-pass at their pleasure, without the least danger. He employed all his seamen in levelling the ground over which the machines were to be brought up, to the space of four furlongs. The number of workmen who were employed on this occasion amounted to 30,000.
In the mean time, the Rhodians, observing these formidable preparations, were busy in raising a new wall within that which the enemy intended to batter with the helepolis. In order to accomplish this work, they pulled down the wall which surrounded the theatre, some neighbouring houses, and even some temples, after having solemnly promised to build more magnifi-cent structures in honour of the gods, if the city were preserved. At the same time, they sent out nine of their best ships to seize such of the enemy’s vessels as they could meet with, and thereby distress
them for
want of
provisions. As thefe ships were commanded by their bravest sea-officers, they soon returned with an 'immense booty, and a great many prisoners. Among ■other veffels, they took a galley richly laden, on board of which they sound a great variety of valuable surni-ture, and a royal robe, which Phila herself had wrought and sent as a present to her hushand Demetrius, accompanied with a letter written with her own hand. The Rhodians sent the furniture, the royal robe, and even the letter, to Ptolemy ; which exasperated Deme-trius to a great degree.
while Demetrius was preparing to attack the city, the Rhodians having affembled the people and magistrates to consult about the measures they should take, some proposed in the affembly tbe pulling down of tlie statues of Antigonus and his son Demetrius, wliich till then had been held in the utmost veneration. But this proposal was generally rejected with indignation, and their prudent conduct greatly allayed the wrath both
of
Antigonus and Demetrius. However, the latter continued to carry on the siege with the utmost vigour, thinking it would reflect no small dishonour on him were he obliged, to quit the place without making himself master of it. He caused the walls to be secretly undermined : but, when they were ready to sall, a descrter very opportunely gave notice of the whole to the townsmen ; who haviag, with all expedition, drawn a deep trench all along the wall, began to countermine, and, meeting the enemy under ground, obliged them to abandon the work, while both parties guarded the mines, one Athenagoras a Milesian, who had been sent to the affistance of the Rhodians by Ptolemy with a body of mercenaries, promised to betray the city to the Demetrians, and let them in thro’ the mines in the night-time. But- this was only in order to ensnare them ; for Alexander, a noble Ma-cedonian, whom Demetrius had sent with a choice body of troops to take poffeffion of a post agreed on, no sooner appeared, but he was taken prisoner by the Rhodians, who were waiting for him under arms. — Athenagoras was crowned by the senate with a crown of gold, and presented with sive talents of silver.
Demetrius now gave over all thoughts of undermining the walls, and placed all his hopes of reducing the city in the battering-engines which he had contrived. Having therefore levelled the ground under the walls, he brought up his helepolis, with four testudoes on each side of it. Two other testudoes of an extraordinary size, bearing battering-rams, were like-wife moved forwards by 1000 men. Each story of the helepolis was silled with all sorts of engines for discharging of stones, arrows, and darts, when all things were ready, Demetrius ordered the signal to be given ; when his men, setting up a shout, affaulted the city on all sides both by sea and land. But, in the heat of the attack, when the walls were ready to fall by the repeated strokes of the battering-rams, am bassadors arrived from Cnidus, earnestly solicsting Demetrius to fuspend all further hostilities, and at the fame time giving him hopes that they should prevail upon the Rhodians to submit to an honourable capitulation. A fuspenfipn of arms was accordingly agreed on, and ambassadors fent from both ssdes. But the Rhodians refasmg to capitulate on the conditions Of
fered them, the attack was renewed with so much
fury, and the machines played off in so brisk
a
manner, that a large tower built with square stones, and the wall that flanked it, were battered down. The besie-ged, nevertheless, fought in the breach with fo much courage and resolution, that the enemy, after various unsuccesssul attempts, were forced to abandon the en-teprise, and retire.
In this conjuncture, a fleet which Ptolemy had freighted with 300,000 measures of corn, and different kinds of pulse for thc ufe of the Rhodians, ar-rived very seasonably in the port, nothwithstandiug the vigilance of the enemy’s ships, which cruized on the coasts of the issand to surprise them. A few days after came in fafe two other fleets, one sent by Caf-sander, with 100,000 bushels of barley; the other by Lysimachus, with 400,000 bushcts of corn and as many os barley. This seasonable and plentiful supply arriving when the city began to suffer for want of provisions, inspired the besieged with new courage, and raised their drooping spirits. Being thus animated, they formed a design of setting the enemy’s engines on sire ; and with this view ordered a body of men to sally out the night ensuing, about the second watch, with torches and sirebrands, having sirst placed on the walls an incredible number of engines, to discharge stones, arrows, darts, and fire-balls, against those who should attempt to oppose their detachment. The Rhodian troops, pursuant to their orders, all on a sudden fallied out, and advancing, in spite of all opposition, to the batteries, set them on sire, while the engines from the walla played inceffantly on those who endeavoured to extinguish the flames. The Demetrians on this occasion fell in great numbers, being incapable, in the darknefs of the -night, either to see the engines that continually difeharged showers of stones and arrows upon them, or to join in one body and repulse the enemy. The conflagration was so great, that several plates of iron falling from the helepolis, that vast engine would have been entirely consumed, had not the troops that were stationed in it with all poffible fpeed quenched the
fire 
with water, before prepared, and ready in the apart-ments of the engine against sueh accidents. Deme-trius, fearing lest all his machines should be consumed, called together, by sound of trumpet, those whose province it was to move them ; and, by their help, brought them off before they were entirely destroyed. When it was day, he commanded all the darts and arrows that had been shot by the Rhodians to be carefully gathered, that he might from their number form some judgement of the number of machines in the city. Above 800 firebrands were found on the fpot, and no fewer than 1500 darts, all discharged in a very small portion of the night. This struck the prince himself with no small terror ; for he never imagined that they would have been able to bear the charges of such formidable preparations. However, after having caused the ssain to be buried, and given directions for the curing of the wounded, he applied himself to the repairing of his machines, which had bccn dismounted and rendered ■quite unserviceable.
In the mean time, the 'besieged, improving the respite allowed them by the removal of the machines, built a third wall in the form of a crefcent, which took in all that part that was most exposed to the enemy s batteries ; and, besides, drew a deep trench behind the
breach, to prevent the
enemy from entering the city that way. At the seme time, they detached a squadron of their best ships, under the command of Amyntas, who made over to the continent of Alia ; and there meeting with some privateers who were commissioned by Demetrius, took both the ships and the men, among whom were Timocles the chief of the pirates, and several other officers of distinction belonging to the fleet of Demetrius. On their return, they fell in with several vessels laden with corn for the enemy’s camp, which they likewise took,, and brought into the port. These were soon followed by a numerous fleet of small vessels loaded with corn and provisions sent them by Ptolemy, together with 1500 men, commanded by Antigonus a Macedonian of great experience in military affairs.— Demetrius, in the mean time, having repaired his machines, brought them up anew to the walls ; which he incessantly battered till he opened a great breach and threw down several towers. But when he came to the assault, the Rhodians, under the command of Aminias, defended themfelves with such refolution and intrepidity, that he was in three successive attacks repulsed with great laughter, and at last forced to retire. The Rhodians likewise, on this occasion, lost several officers ; and amongst others, the brave Aminias their commander.
while the Rhodians were thus signalizing 'them-selves in the defence of their country, a second embassy arrived at the camp of Demetrius from Athens and the other cities of Greece, soliciting Demetrius to compote matters, and strike up a peace with the Rhodians. At the request of the ambassadors, who were in all above 50, a cessation of arms was agreed upon; but the terms offered by Demetrius being anew rejected by the Rhodians, the ambassadors returned home without being able to bring the contending parties to an agreement. Hostilities were therefore renewed; and Demetrius, whose imagination was fertile in expedients for succeeding in his projects, formed a detachment of 1500 of his best troops, under the conduct of Alcimus and Mancius, two officers of great resolution and
experience,
ordering them to enter the breach at mid-night, and, forcing the entrenchment behind it, to possess themselves of the polls about the theatre, where it would be no difficult matter to maintain themselves against any efforts of the townsmen. In order to facilitate the execution of fo important and dangerous an undertaking, and amuse the enemy with false attacks, he at the same time, upon a signal given, ordered the reft of the army to set up a shout, and attack the city on all sides both by sea and land. By this means he hoped that, the besieged being alarmed in all parts, his detachment might find an opportunity of forcing the entrenchments which covered the breach, and afterwards of seizing the advantageous poll about the theatre. This feint had all the success the prince could expect ; for the troops having set up a shout from all quarters, as if they were advancing to a general nssault, the detachment commanded by Alcimus and Mancius entered the breach, and fell upon those who defended the ditch, and the wall that covered it, with such vigour, that, having slain the most part of them and put the rest in confusion, they advanced to the theatre, and seized on the post adjoining to it. This occasioned
a general uproar in the city, as if it had
been already taken : but the commanding officers dispatched orders to the soldiers on the ramparts not to quit their posts, nor stir from their respective stations. Having thus secured the walls, they put themselves at the head of a chosen body of their own troops, and of those who were lately come from Egypt, and with these charged the enemy’s detachment. But the darkness of the night prevented them from dislodging the enemy and regaining the advantageous posts they had seized. Day, however, no sooner appeared, than they renewed their attack with wonderful bravery. The Demetrians without the walls, with loud shouts endeavoured to animate those who had entered the place, and inspire them with resolution to maintain their ground till they were relieved with fresh troops. The Rhodians being sensible that their fortunes, liberties, and all that was dear
 
to them in the world, lay at stake, fought like men in the utmost despair, the enemy defending their posts for several hours without giving ground in the least. At length the Rhodians, encouraging each other to exert themfelves in defence of their country, and animated by the example of their leaders, made a last effort, and, breaking into the very heart of the enemy’s battalion, there killed both their commanders. After their death the rest were easily put in diforder, and all to a man either killed or taken prifoners. The Rhodians like-wile on this occasion lost many of their best commanders ; and among the rest Damotetis, their chief magistrate, a man of extraordinary valour, who had signalized himself during the whole time of the siege.
Demetrius, not at all discouraged by this check, was making the necessary preparations for a new assault, when he received letters from his father Antigonus, enjoining him to conclude a peace with the Rhodians upon the best terms he could get, left he should lose his whole army in the siege of a lingle town. From this time Demetrius wanted only some plausible pretence for breaking up the siege. The Rhodians likewise were now more inclined to come to an agreement than formerly ; Ptolemy having acquainted them that he intended to tend a great quantity of corn, and 3000 men to their assistance, but that he would first have them try whether they could make up matters with Demetrius upon reasonable terms. At the fame time ambassadors arrived from the Ætolian republic, soliciting the contending parties to put an cnd to a war which might involve all the east in endless calamities.
An accident which happened to Demetrius in this conjuncture, did not a little contribute towards the wished-for pacification. This prince was preparing to advance his helepolis against the city, when a Rhodian engineer found means to render it quite useless. He undermined the tract of ground over which the helepolis was to pass the next day in order to approach the walls. Demetrius, not suspecting any stratagem of this nature, caused the engine to be moved forward, which coming to the place that was undermined, sunk so deep into the ground that it was impossible to draw it out again. This misfortune, if we believe Vegetius and Vitruvius, determined Demetrius to hearken to the Ætolian ambassadors, and at last to strike up a peace upon the following conditions: That the republic of Rhodes should be maintained in the full enjoyment of their ancient rights, privileges, and liberties, without any foreign garrison ; that they should renew their ancient alliance
with Antigonus, and affist him in his wars against all
states and princes except Ptolemy king of Egypt ; and that,Tor the effectual performance of the articles stipu-lated between them, they should deliver ioo hostages, such as Demetrius should make choice of, except those who bore any public employment.
Thus was the siege raised, after it had continued a whole year ; and the Rhodians amply rewarded all those who had distinguished themselves in the service of their country. They also set up statues to Ptolemy, Caffander, and Lysimachus ; to all of whom they paid the highest honours, especially to the sirst, whom they worshipped as a god. Demetrius at his departure presented them with the helepolis, and all the other machines which he had employed in battering the city ; from the sale of which, with some additional sums of their own, they erected the famous coloffus. After this they applied themfelves entirely to trade and navigation ; by which means they became quite masters of the sea, and much more opulent than any of the neigh-bouring nations. As far as lay in their power, they endeavoured to preserve a neutrality with regard to the jarring nations of the east. However, they could not avoid a war with the Byzantines, the occasion os which was as follows : The Byzantines being obliged to pay a yearly tribute of 80 talents to the Gauls, in order to raife this sum, they came to a refolution of laying a toll on all ships that traded to the Pontic sea. This resolu-tion provoked the Rhodians, who were a trading nation, above all the rest. For this reafon they immedi-ately dispatched ambassadors to the Byzantines, complaining of the new tax ; but as the Byzantines had no other method of satisfying the Gauls, they perfisted in their resolution. The Rhodians now declared war, and prevailed upon Prussas king of Bithynia, and Attalus king of Pergamus, to affist them ; by which confederacy the Byzantines were so intimidated, that they agreed to exact no toll from ships trading to the Pontic sea, the demand which had been the occasion of the war.
About this time happened a dreadful earthquake, which threw down the colossus, the arsenal, and great part of the city-walls of Rhodes
y
which calamity the Rhodians improved to their advantage, sending ambassadors to all the Grecian princes and states, to whom their losses were so much exaggerated, that their countrymen obtained immense sums of money under pretence 
of
repairing them. Hiero king of Syracuse presented them with 100 talents ; and, besides, exempted from all tolls and duties such as traded to Rhodes. Ptolemy king of Egypt gave them
ico
talents, a million of mea-fures of wheat, materials for building 20 quinqueremes and the like number of triremes ; and, besides, sent them 100 architects, 300 workmen, and materials for tepairing their public buildings, to a great value, pay-ing them moreover 14 talents a-year for the mainte-nance of the workmen whom he sent them. Antig©-Bus gave them 100 talents of silver, with 10,000 pieces 
of
timber, each piece being 16 cubits long ; 7000 planks ; 3000 pounds of iron, as many of pitch and re-Jin, and 1000 measures of tar. Chryseis, a woman of diftinction, sent them 100,000 measures of wheat, and 3000 pounds of lead. Antiochus exempted from all taxes and duties the Rhodian ships trading to his do-
ttinioas i presented them with 10 galley
s, and 200,000
meafures of c®rn, with many other things of great
va
lue. Prusias, Mithridates, and all the princes then reigning in Asia, made them proportionable presents : in short, all the Greek towns and nations, all the princes of Europe and Asia, contributed, according to their ability, to the relief ©f the Rhodians on that occa« sion ; insomuch that their city not only soon rofe from its ruins, but attained to an higher pitch of splendor than ever.
In the year 203 B. C. the Rhodians engaged in a war with Philip of Macedon. This monarch had invaded the territories of Attalus king of Pergamus ; and because the Rhodians seemed to favour their ancient friend, sent one Heraclides, by birth a Tarentine, to set sirc to their fleet ; at the same time that he dispatch-ed ambaffadors into Crete, in order to stir up the Cretans against the Rhodians, and prevent them from sending any affistance to Attalus. Upon this war was im-mediately proclaimed. Philip at siril gained an incon-siderable advantage in a naval engagement ; but the next year was defeated with the lofs of 11,000 men, while the Rhodians lost but 60 men and Attalus 70. After this he carefully avoided coming to an engagement at sea either with Attalus or the Rhodians. The combined fleet, in the mean time, faffed towards the island of Ægina in hopes of intercepting him : but having failed in their purpose, they failed to Athens, where they concluded a treaty with that people ; and,, on their return, drew all the Cyclades into a confederacy against Philip. But while tlie allies were thus-walling xheir time in négociations, Philip, having divided his forces into two bodies, sent one, under the cum· rhand of Philocles, to ravage the Athenian territories £ and put the other aboard his fleet, with orders to sail to Meronea·, a city on the north side of Thrace. He then marched towards that city himself with a body of forces, took it by affault, and reduced a great many others ; so that the confederates would, in all pro-bability, have had little reason to boast of their suc-cess, had not the Romans come to their afliftance, by whose help the war was foon terminated to their advantage. In the war which took place between the Romans and Antiochus the Great king of Syria, the Rhodians were very useful allies to the former.
The 
best part of their fleet was indeed delhoyed by a trea-cherous contrivance of Polyxeniades the Syrian admi-ral ; but they soon fitted out another, and defeated
a. 
Syrian iquudron commanded by the celebrated Hannibal, the Carthaginian commander ; after which, in con-junction with the Romans, they utterly defeated the whole Syrian fleet commanded by Polyxeniades ; which, together with the lofs of the battle of Magnesia, so di-spirited Antiochus, that he submitted to whatever
eon-
ditions the Romans pleased.
For these serviees the Rhodians were rewarded with the provinces os Lycia and Cana ; but tyrannizing over the people in a terrible manner, the Lycians applied to the Romans for protection. This was readily granted ; but the Rhodians were so much displeased with their interfering in this matter, that they secretly favoured Perses in the war which broke out between him and the Roman republic. For this offence the two provinces above-mentioned were taken srom them ; but the Rhodians, having banished or put death those 
who had favoured Perses, were again admitted
into sa-VOUTj
