which finally superseded the native law in James I.’s reign, as modified by subsequent legislation. The main difference is in the law of Landlord and Tenant (q.v.) and the operation of the Landed Estates Court, merged in the High Court of Justice in Ireland by the Supreme Court of Judicature (Ireland) Act, 1877.
United States.—The law of real estate in the United States is the law of England modified to suit a different state of circumstances. The main point of difference is that in the United States the occupiers of land are generally wholly or in part owners, not tenants, as iu England. This is to a great extent the effect of the homestead laws (see Homestead). The traces of the feudal origin of the law are, as might be expected, considerably less prominent than in England. Thus estates tail are practically obsolete ; in some States they are specially forbidden by the State constitutions. The law of descent is the same in real and personal estate (see Inheritance). Manors do not exist, except in the State of New York, where they were created by the crown in colonial days (Bouvier, Law Diet., “Manor”). Registration of deeds is general (see Registration). In some States forms of deed are prescribed by statute. Conveyancing is for the most part simpler than in England. The holding of real estate by religious or charitable corporations is generally restricted by the Act creating them rather than by anything like the English law of mortmain. In Pennsylvania such a corporation cannot hold land without an Act of the legislature, and in Territories of the United States it cannot hold real estate of a greater value than $50,000 (Act of Congress of 1st July 1862, c. 126). Perpetuities are forbidden in most States. The right of eminent domain is at once acknowledged and limited by the constitution of the United States. By art. 5 of the Amendments private property is not to be taken for public use without just compensation. A similar provision is found in many of the State constitutions. By an Act of Congress of 9th April 1866, c. 31, all citizens of the United States have the same right in every State and Territory as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property. In most States aliens may hold land ; but in some States they cannot do so without becoming naturalized or at least filing in the specified manner a declaration of intention to become naturalized. For the State laws affecting the capacity of aliens to hold land, see Washburn, Real Property, vol. i. p. 64.
International Law.—The law of the place where real estate is situated (lex loci rei sitæ) governs its tenure aud transfer. The laws of England and of the United States are more strict on this point than the laws of most other countries. They require that the formalities of the locus rei sitæ must be observed, even if not necessary to be observed in the place where the contract was made. The lex loci rei sitæ determines what is to be considered real estate. A foreign court cannot as a general rule pass title to land situated in another country. The English and United States courts of equity have to a certain extent avoided the inconvenience which this inability to deal with laud out of the jurisdiction sometimes causes by the use of the theory that equity acts upon the conscience of the party and not upon the title to the foreign land. Thus in the leading case of Penn v. Lord Baltimore in 1750 (1 Yesey’s Reports, 444) the Court of Chancery on this ground decreed specific performance of articles for settling the boundaries of the provinces of Pennsylvania and Maryland. The difficulty always arises that, although the court professes to act upon the conscience, it must indirectly act upon the property, and that it cannot carry its decision into execution without the aid of the local tribunals. (J. W+. )
REALISM. See Scholasticism.
RÉAUMUR, René Antoine Ferchault de (1683-1757), tlie eldest son of a French nobleman, was born on 28th February 1683 at La Rochelle and received his early education there. He ·was taught philosophy in the Jesuits’ college at Poitiers, and in 1699, when “hardly seventeen, but already possessed of the prudence of a grown man,” went to Bourges to study civil law and mathematics under the charge of an uncle, canon of La Sainte Chapelle. In 1703 he came to Paris, where he continued the study of mathematics and physics. He soon made his presence felt in the highest circles, and in 1708, at the remarkably early age of twenty-four, was elected a member of the Académie des Sciences. From this time onwards for nearly half a century hardly a year passed in which the Mémoires de VAcadémie did not contain at least one paper by Reaumur. At first his attention was occupied by mathematical studies, especially in geometry. In 1710 he was appointed to the charge of a great Government Avork—the official description of the useful arts and manufactures—which led him to many practical researches that resulted in the establish
ment of manufactures new to France and the revival of neglected industries. For discoveries regarding iron and steel the regent Orleans awarded him a pension of 12,000 livres ; but, being content with his ample private income, he requested that the money should be secured to the Académie des Sciences for the furtherance of experiments on improved industrial processes. In 1731 he became greatly interested in meteorology, and invented the thermometer which bears his name. In 1735 family arrangements obliged him to accept the post of commander and intendant of the royal and military order of Saint Louis ; he discharged his duties in connexion with it with scrupulous attention, but declined to receive any of the emoluments. Whatever his other occupations Avere, he ahvays found time for the systematic study of natural history, in which he took great delight. He Avas a born naturalist, gifted with rare poAvers of observation and description,—indeed his friends often called him the Pliny of the 18th century. He loved retirement and lived much at his country residences, at one of Avhich, La Bermondière (Maine), he met with an accident, a fall from horseback, the effects of which proved fatal on 17th October 1757. He bequeathed his manuscripts, which filled 138 portfolios, and his natural history collections to the Académie des Sciences.
Reaumur Avas a man of wide attainments and great industry. His writings, sometimes on trivial topics, were frequently diffuse, yet always interesting. His mind was original and intensely practical. As a rule he avoided theoretical questions, but Avhen he took them up his manner of treatment Avas remarkably clear, chiefly on account of an ingenious use of metaphor, often expanding into allegory. His memory Avas retentive, his information immense, and his kindliness of disposition such that his knowledge and wealth seemed to be amassed only for the benefit of his friends. He always bore a high character, was a great favourite in society, and associated on terms of intimacy Avith the principal great men of the time in Europe.
Reaumur’s scientific papers are too numerous to be recapitulated ; they deal with nearly all branches of science. His first paper, in 1708, was on a general problem in geometry, his last, in 1756, on the forms of birds’ nests. He proved experimentally the fact, afterwards demonstrated theoretically by Du Hamel, that the strength of a rope is less than the sum of the strengths of its separate strands. He examined and reported on the auriferous rivers, the turquoise mines, the forests, and the fossil beds of France. He devised the method of tinning iron that is still employed, and investigated the differences betAveen iron and steel, correctly slioAA'ing that the amount of combustible matter (sulphur in the language of the old chemistry) is greatest in cast iron, less in steel, and least in Avrought iron. His book on this subject (1722) Avas translated into English and German. The thermometer by Avhich he is noAv best remembered Avas constructed on the principle of taking the freezing-point of water as 0°, and graduating the tube into degrees each of which Avas one-thousandth of the volume contained by the bulb and tube up to the zero mark. It Avas purely an accident dependent on the dilatability of the particular quality of alcohol employed which made the boiling-point of Avater 80° ; and mercurial thermometers the stems of which are graduated into eighty equal parts between the freezing and boiling points of water are not Reaumur thermometers in anything but name.
Reaumur Avrote much on natural history. Early in life ho described the locomotor system of the Echinodermata, and shoAved that the supposed vulgar error of Crustaceans replacing their lost limbs Avas an actual fact. In 1710 he Avrote a paper on the possibility of spiders being used to produce silk, which Avas so celebrated at the time that the Chinese emperor Kang-he caused a translation of it to be made. He treated also of botanical and agricultural matters, and devised processes for preserving birds and eggs. He elaborated a system of artificial incubation, and made important observations on the digestion of carnivorous and graminivorous birds ; but his greatest work is the Mémoires pour servir à l’Histoire des Insectes, 6 vols., with 267 plates, Amsterdam, 1734-49. It describes the appearance, habits, and locality of all the knoAvn insects except the beetles, and is a marvel of patient and accurate observation. Amongst other important facts stated in this work are the experiments which enabled Reaumur to prove the correctness of Peyssonel’s hypothesis, that corals were animals and not plants, as AA׳as previously supposed.
REBUS, an enigmatical representation of some name or thing, by using figures or pictures instead of words or
