(Testudo, with fourteen species). The second group comprises the Lacertse, twenty-live in number, and includes the Salamander and Newts; and the third the Serpentes, nine species, among which the Limbless Lizards are enumerated.
Except in so far as he made known and briefly characterized a number of Reptiles, our knowledge of this class was not advanced by Linn.eus. His notions as to the relation of the various types among themselves and to the other vertebrates were the same as those of Ray, and the progress made by herpetology in the various editions of the Systema Nature¿ is therefore of a merely formal character. That Linnaeus associated in the 12th edition cartilaginous and other Fishes with the Reptiles under the name of Amphibia Nantes was the result of some misunderstanding of an observation by Garden, and is not to be taken as a premonitory token of the recent discoveries of the relation between Batrachians and Fishes. Linnaeus places Reptiles, which he calls Amphibia, as the third class of the animal kingdom; he divides the genera thus :—
Order 1. Reptiles. —Tcstudo (15 species); Rana (17 sp.); Draco (2 sp.); Lacerta (48 sp., including 6 Batrachians).
Order 2. Serpentes. — Crotalus (5 species); Boa (10 sp.); Coluber (96 sp.); Anguis (15 sp.) ; Arnphisbxna (2 sp.); Csecilia (2sp.).
None of the naturalists who under the direction or influence of Linnaeus visited foreign countries possessed any special knowledge of or predilection for the study of Reptiles; all, however, contributed to our acquaintance with tropical forms, or transmitted well-preserved specimens to the collections at home, so that Gmelin, in the 13th edition of the Systema Natures, was able to enumerate three hundred and seventy-one species.
The man who, with the advantage of the Linnaean method, first treated of Reptiles monograpliically, was Laurenti. In a small book1@@ he proposed a new division of these animals, of which some ideas and terms have survived into our times, characterizing the orders, genera, and species in a much more precise manner than Linnaeus, giving, for his time, excellent descriptions and figures of the species of his native country. Laurenti might have become for herpetology what Artedi was for ichthyology, but his resources were extremely limited. He himself complains that he had no literary intercourse with foreign naturalists, and access to but a few works (he especially mentions Seba’s Thesaurus) and one collection only,
The circumstance that Chelonians are entirely omitted from his Synopsis seems due rather to the main object with which he engaged in the study of herpetology, viz., that of examining and distinguishing Reptiles reputed to be poisonous, and to want of material, than to his conviction that Tortoises should be relegated to another class. He divides then the class into three orders :—
T. Salientia, with the genera Pipa, Bufo, Rana, Hyla, and one species of “ Proteus,” viz., the larva of Pseudisparadoxa.
Gradientia, the three first genera of which are Tailed Batrachians, viz., two species of Proteus (one being the P. anguinus), Triton, and Salamandra; followed by true Saurians— Caudiverbera, Gecko, Cha.mselco, Iguana, Basiliscus, Draco, Cordylus, Crocodilus, Scincus, Stellio, Seps.
3. Serpentia, among which ho continues to keep Amphisbsena, Csecilia, and Anguis, but the large Linnaean genus Coluber is divided into twelve, chiefly from the scutellation of the head and form of the body.
The work concludes with an account of the experiments made by Laurenti to prove the poisonous or innocuous nature of those Reptiles of which he could obtain living specimens.
The next general work on Reptiles is by Lacépède. It appeared in the years 1788 and 1790 under the title Histoire Naturelle des Quadrupèdes Ovipares et des Serpens (Paris, 2 vols. 4to). Although as regards treatment of details and amount of information this work far surpasses the modest attempt of Laurenti, it show's no advance towards a more natural division and arrangement of the genera. The author depends entirely on conspicuous external characters, and classifies the Reptiles into (1) oviparous quadrupeds with a tail, (2) oviparous quadrupeds without a tail, (3) oviparous bipeds (Chirotes and Pseudopus), (4) Serpents,—an arrangement in which the old confusion of Batrachians and Reptiles and the imperfect definition of Lizards and Snakes are continued, and which it is worthy of remark we find also adopted in Cuvier’s Tableau Élémentaire de l’Histoire Naturelle des Animaux (1798), and nearly so by Latreille in his Histoire Naturelle des Reptiles (Paris, 1801, 4 vols. 12mo). Lacépède’s monograph, however, remained for many years deservedly the standard work on Reptiles, on account of the ability with which the author collected all reliable information on the various species, and on account of the facilities which it afforded for determining them. The numerous plates with which the work is illustrated are, for the time, well drawn, and the majority readily recognizable.
3. The Period of Elimination of Batrachians as one of the Reptilian Orders.—A new period for herpetology com-mences with Alex. Brongniart,@@2 who in 1799 first recognized the characters by which Batrachians differ from the other Reptiles, and by which they form a natural passage to the class of Fishes. Csecilia (as also Langaha and Acrochordus) is left by Brongniart with hesitation in the order of Snakes, but Newts and Salamanders henceforth are no more classed with Lizards. He leaves the Batrachians, however, in the class of Reptiles as the fourth order. The first order comprises the Chelonians, the second the Saurians (including Crocodiles and Lizards), the third the Ophidians—terms which have been adopted by all succeeding naturalists. Here, however, Brongniart’s merit on the classification of Reptiles ends, the definition and disposition of the genera remaining much the same as in the works of his predecessors.
The activity in France in the field of natural science I was at this period, in spite of the political disturbances, so great that only a few years after Lacépède’s work another, almost identical in scope and of the same extent, appeared, viz., the Histoire Naturelle Générale et Particulière des Reptiles of F. M. Daudin (Paris, 1802-3, 8 vols. 8vo). Written and illustrated with less care than that by Lacépède, it is of greater importance to the herpetologists of the present day, as it contains a considerable number of generic and specific forms described for the first time. Indeed, at the end of the work, the author states that he has examined more than eleven hundred specimens, belonging to five hundred and seventeen species, all of which he has described from nature. The system adopted is that of Brongniart, giving to the work a character by which the modern herpetologist is most favourably impressed. The genera are well defined, but ill arranged ; it is, however, noteworthy that Csecilia takes now its place at the end of the Ophidians, and nearest to the succeeding order of Batrachians.
The next step in the development of the herpeto-logical system was the natural arrangement of the genera. This involved a stupendous amount of labour ; by a careful thorough examination of all the types of Reptiles then known, reliable characters had to bo discovered, and by means of the principle of the subordination of
@@@1 Specimen medicum exhibens Synopsin Reptilium emendatam cum experimentis circa venena et antidota Reptilium Austriacorum, Vienna, 1768 (8vo, pp. 214, with 5 plates).
@@@2 Bull. Acad. Sci., 1800, Nos. 35, 36.
