often 
disposcd to regard vice with 
a 
no less favourable eye than virtue, and who, though there be an established order by which virtue is discriminated from vice, and right from wrong, yet scruple not to violate that order in their own conduct; you cannot expect them to require in you a degree of rectitude of which they themselves appear incapable. A Mercury will not dis courage the thievish arts of the trader; a Bacchus and a Venus cannot frown upon debauchery; Mars will be hold with savage delight all the cruelties of war. The Thracians indeed, one of the most barbarous nations of antiquity, whose ferocity was little if at all inferior to that of the Indians who have been distinguished as ca nibals, was the favourite nation of Mars; among whom stood his palace, to which he repaired when about to mount his chariot, and arm himself for battle. Even Jupiter, who had been guilty of so many acts of tyrannical caprice, bad been engaged in such a multitude of amorous intrigues, and seemed to owe his elevated station as monarch of the sky, not to superior goodness or wisdom, but merely to a superior degree of brutal force, could not be feared as the avenger of crimes, 
or 
revered as the impartial rewarder of virtues. 
That this system had a pernicious effect on morals, and that, as compared with pure theism, it was injurious to society, cannot be denied; but yet, when con trasted with atheism, it was not without its favourable effects. It was so connected with the order of society, that, without its support, that order could scarce have been maintained. The young rake might perhaps justify himself by the example of Jupiter, or Apolio, or some other amorous divinity; the frail virgin or matron might complain of Cupid, or boast of imitating Venus; and the thief might practice bis craft under the patronage of Mercury : But if we take the whole system together, if we consider with what views those deities were publicly worshipped, what temples were raised, what rites instituted, what sacrifices offered, and what 
feriœ 
consecrated; we shall perhaps find it neeeffary to acknowledge that the general effects even of that mixed and incoherent system of polytheism which prevailed among the Greeks and Romans were favourable to society. To state a particular instance; the 
ancilia 
of Mars and the fire of Vesta were thought to secure the perpetuity of the Roman empire. As long as the sacred 
andle, 
which had been dropped from heaven for that benevolent purpose, was safely preserved in those holy archives in which it had been deposited; and as long as the sacred sire of Vesta was kept burning, without being once extinguished, or at least suffered to remain for an instant in that state; fo long was Rome to subsist and flourish. And, however simple and ab surd the idea which connected the prosperity of a nation with the preservation of a piece of wood in a certain place, or with the constant blazing of a flame upon an hearth; yet no fact can be more certain, than that the patriotism and enthusiastic valour of the Romans, which we so much extol and admire, were, in many instances, owing in no inconsiderable degree to the vene ration which they entertained for the 
andlia 
and the vestal sire. 
A 
numerous series of facts occur in the Roman, hi story, which show the happy effects of their religious: opinions and ceremonies on their sentiments concerning 
social order and the public welfare. How powerful 
was the 
influence 
of the 
aeramentum 
administered 
to 
the soldiers when they enlisted in the service of their country? The promises made, the idea of the powers invoked, and the rites performed on that occasion, pro duced so deep and so awful an impression on their minds, that no danger, nor distress, nor discontent, could prompt them to violate their engagements. The re sponses of the oracles, too, thougsh the dictates of 
de 
ceit and imposture, were often of singular service to those to whom they were uttered; when they inspired the warrior, as he marched out to battle, with the con sidence of success, they communicated to him new vi gour, and more heroic valour, by which he was actually enabled to gain, or at least to deserve, the success which they prornifed. Again, when in times of pub. lic distress, the augur and. the priest directed some games to be celebrated, certain facrisices to be offered, or 
some 
other solemnities to be performed, in order to appease the wrath of the offended deities; it is plain that thc means were not at all suited to accomplish the end pro posed by them; yet still they were highly beneficial when the attention of the whole people was turned en tirely to those solemnities by which the wrath of hea ven was to be averted, they were roused from that despondency under which the sense of the public distres’s or danger might have otherwise caused them to link : the public union was at the same time more closely cemented, and the hearts of the people knit together; and when persuaded, that by propitiating the gods they had removed the cause of their distress, they acquired such calmness and strength of mind as enabled them to take more direct and proper measures for the safety of the state. 
Could we view the ancient Greeks and Romans act ing in public or in private life under the influence 
of 
that system of superstition which prevailed among them; could we perceive how much it contributed to the maintenance of civil order; could we behold Numa and Lycurgus establishing their laws, which would otherwise have met with a very different reception under the sanction of divinities; could we observe all the beneficial effects which arose to communities from the ce lebration of religious ceremonies - we should no longer hesitate to acknowledge, that those principles in the hu man heart by which we are suceptiblc of religious sentiments, are fo eminently calculated to promote the happiness of mankind, that even when perverted and abu sed, their influence is still favourable. 
The ideas which prevailed among the nations of 
the 
heathen world concerning a future state of retribution were, it must be confessed,. not very correct. some of the poets, we believe, have represented them in no unfair light : both Homer and Virgil have conducted their heroes through the realms of Pluto, and have taken occasion to unfold to us the secrets of those dreary abodes the scenes are wild and fanciful; the rewards of the just and virtuous are of no very resigned or dignified nature: : of the punishments inflicted on. the guilty, it. is often hard to say for what ends they could be inflicted; whether to correct and improve, or for the gratification of revenge or whim : they are often so whim sical and unsuitable, that they cannot with any degree of propriety be ascribed to any cause but blind chance or wanton caprice. A great dog with three tongues, 
a 
peevish 
old boat man 
with 
a leaky 
ferryboat, de 
