and afterwards the bead. As to the body of the worm from which these pieces were separated, it lived as well as before, and seemed indeed to suffer nothing by the loss, the head part being immediately used as if thfe head was thereon, boring the creature’s way into the mud. There are, besides this, two other points in which the reproduction will not take place; the one of these is about the fifth or sixth ring from the head, and the other at the same distance from the tail; and in all pro bability the condition of the great artery in these parts is the cause of this. 
what is said of the want of the reproductive power of these parts relates only to the head and tail ends; sor as to the body, it feels very little inconvenience from the loss of what is taken off, and very speedssy reproduces those parts, where then does the principle of life reside in such worms, which, after having their heads cut off, will have not only the same motions, but even the inclinations, that they had before? and yet this difficulty is very small, compared to several others which at the same time offer themselves to our reason. Is this wonderful reproduction of parts only a natural conse quence of the laws of motion? or is there lodged in the body of the creature a chain of minute buds or shoots, a sort of little embryos, already formed and placed in s 
ucb 
part where the reproductions are to begin? Are these worms only mere machines? or are they, like more perfect animals, a sort of compound, the springs of whose motions are actuated or regulated by a sort of soul? And if they have themselves such a principle, how is it that this principle is multiplied, and is found in every separate piece? Is it to be granted, that there are in these worms, not a single soul (if it is to be fo call ed) in each, but that each contains as many souls as there are pieces capable of reproducing perfect animals? Are we to believe with Malpighi, that these sorts of worms are all heart and brain from one end to the other! This may be; but yet if we knew that it was so, we should know in reality but very little the more for knowing it: and it seems, after all, that in cases of this kind we are only to admire the works of the great Creator, and sit down in silence. 
The nice sense of feeling in spiders has been much talked of by naturalists;; it appears that these worms have yet somewhat more surprising in them in regard to this particular. If a piece of stick, or any other substance, be brought near them, they do not stay sor its touching them, but begin to leap and frisk about as soon as it comes towards them. There want, however, some farther experiments to asoertain whether this be really owing to feeling or to light; for though we can discover no distinct organs of light in these creatures, yet they seem affected by the light of the fun or a candle, and always frisk about it in the same manner at the approach of either; nay, even the moonlight has some effect upon them. 
A twig of willow, poplar, or many other trees, be ing planted in the earth, takes root, and becomes a tree, every piece of which will in the same manner pro duce other trees. The case is the same with these worms: they are cut to pieces, and these several pieces become perfect animals; and each of these may be again cut into a number of pieces, each of which will in the same manner produce an animal. It had been supposed by sume that these worms were ovipatous t but Mr Bo 
net, on cutting one of them to pieces, having observed a siender substance, resembling a small filament, to move at the end of one of the pieces, separated it; and on examining it with glasses, found it to be a perfect worm, of the same form with its parent, which lived and grew larger in a vessel of water into which he put it. These small bodies are easily divided, and very readily complete themselves again, a day usually serving for the produc tion of a head to the part that wants one; and, in 
general, 
the smaller and slenderer the worms are, the sooner they complete themselves after this operation, when, the bodies of the large worms are examined by the microscope, it is very easy to see the appearance of the young worms alive, and moving about within them : but it requires great precision and exactness to be certain of this; since the ramifications of the great artery have very much the appearance of young worms, and they are kept in a sort of continual motion by the systolea. and diaftoles of the several portions of the artery, which serve as so many hearts. It is very certain, that what we force in regard to these animals by our operations, is done also naturally every day in the brooks and ditches where they live. A curious observer will find in these places many of them without heads or tails, and some without either; as also other fragments of various kinds, ali which are then in the act of completing themselves: : whether accidents have reduced them to this state, or they thus purposely throw off parts of their own body for the reproduction of more animals, it is not eaiy to determine. They are plainly liable to many accidents, by which they lose the several parts of their body, and must perish very early if they had not a power of reproducing what was lost : they often are broken into two pieces, by the resistance of some hard piece of mud which they enter; and they are subject to a disease, a kind of gangrene, rotting off the several parts of their bodies, and must inevitably perish by it,.. had they not this surprising property. 
This worm was a second instance, after the polype, of the surprising power in an animal of recovering its most essential parts when lost. But Nature does not seem to have limited her beneficence in this respect to these two creatures. Mr Bonett tried the same expe riments on another species of water worm, differing from the former in being much.thicker. This kind of worm, when divided in the summer season, very often shows the same property: for if it be cut into three or four pieces, the pieces will lie like dead for a long time, but afterwards will move about again; and will be found in this state of rest to have recovered a head, or a tail, or both.. After recovering their parts, they move very little and, according to this gentleman’s experiments, seldom live more than a month. 
it should seem, that the more difficult success of this last kind of worm, after cutting, and the long time it takes to recover the lost parts, if it do recover them 
at 
all, is owing to its thickness; since we always sind in that species of worms which succeeds best of all, that those which are thinned: always recover their parts much sooner than the others. 
The water insects also are not the only creatures which have this power of recovering their lost parts. The earth affords us some already discovered to grow in this manner from their cuttings, and these not less deserving our admiration than those of the water : the 
