army of satyrs have been only a race of mountaineers, whom Rama, if such a monarch ever existed, had civilised? However that may be, the large breed of Indian apes is at this moment held in high veneration by the Hindus, and fed with devotion by the Brahmans, who seent in two or three places on the banks of the Ganges to have a regular endowment for the support of them : they live in tribes of three or four hundred, are wonderfully gentle (I speak as an eyewitness), and appear to have some kind of order and subordination in their little sylvan polity.” The festival of Rhama is held on the 9th day of the new moon of Chaitra, on which the war of Lauca is dramatically represented, conclu ding with an exhibition of the fire ordeal, by which the victor’s wife sita gave proof of her connubial fidelity. Among the Hindus there are a variety of very fine dramas of great antiquity n the story of Rhama. 
There are three Rhamas mentioned in the Indian mythology, who, together with Crishna, the darling god of the Indian women, are described as youths of perfect beauty. The third Rhama is crishna’s elder brother, and is considered as the eighth Avatar b), in vested with an emanation of his divine radiance. Like all the Avatars, Rhama is painted with gemmed ethi opian or Parthian coronets; with rays encircling his head, jewels in his ears, two necklaces, oae straight and one pendant on his bosom, with dropping gems; garlands of well dispofed many coloured flowers, or collars of pearls, hanging down below his waist; loose mantles of golden tissue or dyed sslk, embroidered on the hems with flowérs elegantly thrown over one shoulder, and folded like ribbons acloss the breast; with bracelets, two on one arm and on each wrist : all the Avatars are naked to the waisss, and uniformly with dark azure flesh, in allusion probably to the tint of that primordial fluid on which Narayan moved in the beginning of time; but their skirts are bright yellow, the colour of the curious pericarpium in the centre of the water lily. 
rhamnus, the buckthorn, in botany : A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the pentan dria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 43d order, 
Dumofœ. 
The calyx is tubulous, with five minute scales surrounding the stamina; there is no corolla; the fruit is a berry. There are 27 species;; which the most remarkable are, 
I. 
The catharticus, or common purging buckthorn, growing naturally in some parts of Britain. This glows to the height of. 12 or 14 feet, with many irregular branches at the extremities. The leaves are oval lan ceolate, finely serrated on the edges, their nerves con verging together. The flowers grow in clusters, one on each footstalk, white, and in this species divided into four segments : the fruit is a round black berry, containing four seeds. The juice of the berries is a 
strong purgative, and is made use of for making the common syrup of buckthorn kept in the shops. The bark is emetic : the juice of the unripe berries with alum dyes yellow, of the ripe ones a sine green; the bark also dyes yellow. The green colour yielded by the berries, called by the French 
verde vefjie, 
is much esteemed by miniature painters. 
Of this species there are two varieties, 
viz. 
the dwarf buckthorn, a shrub of about a yard high, of a greenish colour but little show; and the long leaved dwarf buck thorn, which is a larger shrub, with leaves somewhat larger, but in other respects very similar to the dwarf buckthorn. 
2. The zizyphus is the species in which the lac in sect* forms its cells, and produces the wax callecl 
gum lac. 
see Lacca. 
3. The lotus has the leaves, prickles, flowers, and fruit, of the zizyphus or jubeb; only with this difference, that the fruit is here round, smaller, and more lufeious, and at the same time the branches, like those of the paliurus, are neither so much jointed nor crook ed. Ί he fruit is in great repute, tastes something like gingerbread, and is sold in the markets all over the southern districts of these kingdoms. The Arabs call it 
aneb enta el feedra, 
or 
the jubeb of the feedra; 
which Olavus Celsius had so high an opinion of, that he has described it as the dudaim of the scriptures. This spe cies is very common in the Jereede and other parts of Bombay; and has been supposed by some to be the same plant with that celebrated by Homer for its en chanting property; though the latter is more generally supposed to have been a species of Diospyros (which see). It is proper, however, to distinguish between both these shrubs and an herb often mentioned by the ancients under the name of 
lotus, 
which Homer men tions as being fed upon by the horses of Achilles, and Virgil as proper to increase the milk of sheep (see Lotus). They are also different from the Egyptian lotus described by Herodotus; sor which see Nym 
PHÆA. 
4. The frangula, or berry bearing alder, is a deciduous shrub, a native of England and most of the north era parts of Europe, and affords several varieties. 
5. The Alpine, rough leaved frangula, or berrybearing alder, is also a deciduous shrub, and native of the Alps. It differs in no respect from the common sort, except that it has no thorns, and that it will grow to be rather taller, with tough, large, and doubly laci niated leaves. The smooth leaved Alpine frangula is a variety of this species, with smooth leaves and of a lower growth. 
6. The paliurus, or thorn of Christ, is a deciduous shrub or tree, a native of Palestine, spain, Portugal, and Italy. It will grow to nearly the height of 14, 
b) 
Avatar 
means the descent of the deity in his capacity of preserver. The three sirst of these descents relate to some stupendous convulsion of our globe from the fountains of the deep, and the fourth exhibits the miraculous punishment of pride and impiety, appearing to refer to the deluge. Three of the others were ordaiued for the overthrow of tyrants or giants. Of these Avatars we have mentioned in the text, that Rhama is the eighth; Buddha, who appears to have been a reformer of the doctrines contained in Vedas, is the ninth : the tenth Avatar, we are told, is yet to come, and is expected to appear mounted (like the crowned conqueror in the Apocalypse) on a white horse, with a scimeter blazing like a comet to mow down all corrigible and impe·» sutent offenders who shall then be on the earth. 
