Mountain , by means of whom Robespierre had risen to power, with little satissaction now found themselves not only disregarded, shut ready at every instant to fall a sacrifice to that system of terror which they had contributed to erect. Even the Jacobins shemselves, though neither timid nor cautious in the shedding of blood, be gan to murmur when they saw that awful privilege confined exclusively within a few hands, or rather monopolised by an individual. In this, state things remained for some time;, and it appeared how possible it is for an individual to govern a great nation even while the whole of that nation is hostile to his power. The banishment or imprisonment of all foreigners, which had long been rigoroussy practised, prevents us from possessing much accurate information concerning the internal state of France at this period; but it is certain, that one eircumftance in particular tendëd much to accelerate the fall of Robespierre.. He had procured a decree to be passed, authorising the committee of public safety to imprison at its pleasure, and bring to trial, any member of the convention. All the individuals of that body found themselves placed by this decree in the hands of a man whose severe and suspicious temper they well knew. still, however, they were so much surrounded’by spies, that it was difficult to form a party or plan of operations; even the majority of the committee of public sasety were among the number of the discontented, but they dared not to withstand their chief.. At last, on the 25th of July, the convention began to exhibit signs of agita tion.. It was understood, that in the course of a few day Robespierre would sacrisice a number of the mem bers to his suspicions. On the following day the sitting of the convention was still more tempestuous. In a. long speech Robespierre defended his own conduct against those who had reproached him with aspiring to the dic tatorfllip of France. He attacked the party whom he styled 
Moderates, 
as. wishing, to overturn the revolutionary government and to restore the feeble system of the Briffotinesi The result of a long debate was, that ro bespierre was apparently victorious, and his speech was ordered to be printed. On the 27th the convention, appeared ripe for a change : st Just, a member of the committee of public safety, in attempting to defend Robespierre.. repeatedly interrupted; and Billaud Varrennes stood forward and enumerated the crimes, and proclaimed the tyranny, of Robespierre. The speech was received with bursts of applause. robe spierre in vain attempted to defend himself; he was silenced by shouts f execration from every part of the hall. Tallien seconded the former speaker in. his ac cusation. The sitting was declared permanent, and a decree of arrest was passed against Robespierre and 
a 
younger brother of his, along with st Just, Couthon, and Lebas. These men left the convention, and found? security in the hall of the commune of Paris; where the municipal officers agreed to protect and stand by them. The tocsin was founded; the armed force was under their command; an insurrection was therefore attempted against the convention : but the sections of Paris resused their support. Very few ef the troops could be collected and these were, not sirm; the late tyranny had become odious. The hall of the commune was thereforespeedilysurrounded; and about three o’clock in the morning of the 28th Robespierre and his associates 
were made prisoners They had been outlawed 
by the 
convention on account of 
their reslstance. They were not therefore tried, unleft for the purpose of identifying their persons; and, in the course of that day, they were executed : 60 of the municipal officers were also executed 
for 
joining in their rebellion; and in this way 
a 
storm passed over, which at one time threatened to involve the French capital in ruin, and silled all eu rope with astonishment. Thus also terminated the career of the most extraordinary man that the French revolution had brought forward. His talents were undoubtedly confide rable, and his ambition knew no bounds bidding defiance to the ordinary feelings of humanity. Had Dumourier possessed his eoolneis and caution, or had lie posseffed the military talents of Dumourier, the convention would certainly have been overturned, and we should have seen a second Cromwell on tile throne of his murdered sovereign. 
After the fall of Robespierre, the convention exhi bited no small change of appearance. Instead of that silence which formerly prevailed, all was bustle and noise all accused each other. There was no longer any leader, and there was no formed party. Ί he foimer system of terror was declared to be at an end, and 
a 
new system of 
moderatism 
succeeded. This was carried to as great a height as tile system of terror had formerly been; and all means were taken to render popular the fall of their late tyrant. The committees were or ■ anew, and their members ordered to be frequently changed. The correspondence between the affiliated Jacobin clubs was prohibited, and at last the Jacobin club itself was abolished. This last event was accomplished with ease; and that society which had been the great engine of the revolution, was itself without resistance overturned. seventy one deputies of the Girondist party, who had been imprisoned since the 31ft of May 1793, were set at liberty. The name of Lyons was restored to it. some of the agents of Robespierre were punished, particularly the infamous Carrier, whose cruelties in La Vendee we formerly mentioned. still, however, the convention appeared so little united and fo little decided with regard to objects of the sirst importance, that in all probability they would not have conducted the important struggle against the nations of Europe with more success than the Girondist party had formerly done, if the revolutionary government and the late system of terror had not already accumulated in their hands such vast resources, and traced out such a plan of procedure, as rendered it an easy matter to preserve their numerous armies in the train of success to which they were now habituated, - 
The allies in their retreat had left, strang .garrisons in the French towns which had surrendered to them. These were.condé, Valenciennes, Quesnoi, and lan drecies. They now surrendered. to the republican ar mies with so little resistance, that the conduct of the emperor began to be considered as ambiguous, and he was suspected of having entered · into some kind of com promise with the French. This idea proved erroneous; and as suon as the army which had besieged these towns was able to join the grand army under Pichegru ancl Jourdan, the. operations of the campaign were resumed aster a suspension of almost two months. The French army divided itsels into two bodies. One of these under Jourdan advanced against General Clairsait, who had 
succeeded the prince of Cobourg in the command 
