there a 
god 
er a man, a brute 
or a plants and in those 
countries where it was practised, men had usually their names srom animals, and were represented by their si gure in writing r). From this last stage of the pno cess, a transmigration was easily supposed : and hence we hear of the gods of Egypt wandering about like so many vagrants in brute shapes, and of princes being transsated into stars, because a star was their emblem in hieroglyphic, or stood sor their name in figurative lan guage. And, in like manner, we see, from the speci raen of this character which is ssill preserved on ce lestial globes, how the heavens aj first came to be filled with bears, scorpions, and dragons, and with a va riety of other animals. 
The opinions concerning the state of the dead are still more numerous than those concerning the place where they reside. Rude nations have generally thought that the future state is similar to the present; that plants, animals, and inanimate things there, have their shades; and that these contribute as much to the pleasures and conveniences of the dead as their realities do to the living;; husbands have their wives s), lovers their missress’es, warriors their battles, huntsmen their sport; and that all their passions, amusements, and 
bull 
nefs, are the same as formerly. For this reason, that the dead may not appear unprovided in the next world, like the ancient Dauls, some tribes of India, America, and Africa, bury with them in the same grave their wives, their arms, their favourite animals, and their necessary utensils. 
Ί he ancient Egyptians, who believed in transmigra tion, supposed that the soul was after death obliged to animate every species of bird and quadruped, of reptile and insect, and was not to return to a human form till after a period of 3500 years. Others have confined their transmigrations to particular animals, as the soul of man to the human form, and the soul of the brute to the bodies of the species to which it belonged. some bave changed the brute into man, and man into the brute, that man might suffer injuries similar to what he had inflicted, and the brute retaliate what he had suffered. Others have confined the human soul in plants and in stones; and Bell of Antermony mentions an Indiau who supposed that his ancestors might be in fish. 
The notions of Homer were probably those of many of his time. But these notions were dismid indeed, when his hero Ulysses visited the shades, many of the ghosts seemed to retain the mangled and ghastly appearance which they 
hast at 
death 5 
and, 
what is 
worse, seemed 
to be all starving with hunger, innumerable multitudes, with loud shrieks, flocking to the Reams of his ssain victim, as to a most sumptuous and delicious banquet. 
For scarcely had the purple torrent flow’d, 
And all the caverns smok’d with streaming blood, when, lo! appear’d along the dusky coasts Thin airy shoals of visionary ghosts; 
Fair pensive youths, and soft enamour’d maids,. 
And wither’d elders, pale arid wrinkl’d shades. 
Ghastly with wounds, the forms of warriors siain, stalk’d with majestic port, a martial train. 
These, and a thonfand more, swarm’d oser the 
ground, 
And all the dire assembly shriek’d around. 
Ulysses saw, as ghost by ghost arose, 
All wailing with unutterable woes. 
Alone, apart, in discontented mood, 
A gloomy shade, the sullen Ajax stood; 
For ever, with proud disdain he pin’d, 
And the lost arms sor ever stung his mind. 
Upon Uhsss saying to Achilles, 
Alive, we hail’d thee with our guardian gods; 
And, dead, thou rul’st a king iu these abodes; 
The fade reply’d : 
Talk not of ruling in this dol’rous gloom, 
Nor think vain words (he cry’d) can cafe my doom; Rather I choose laboriousiy to bear 
A weight of woes, and breathe the vital air, 
A slave to some poor hind that toils for bread. Than live a scepter’d monarch of the dead. 
In this gloomy region no one is rewarded for his virtue, nor is punished for his crimes, unless committed, like those of sisyphus, Tantalus, and Ixion, againss the gods. Asl indeed are clasfed into groups, from a certain analogy of age, sex, fate, and disposition; but all appear to be equally unhappy, having their whole heart and affections concentrated in a world to which they are fated never to return. 
The Elysium of Homer is allotted only for the rela tions and descendants of the gods; and Menelaus goes to this country of perpetual spring t), not as a person of superior merit, but because he had married the daughter of Jove. 
Even long after a future state had become the scene of rewards and punishments, these for the most part were distributed, not according to moral, but physical distinctions. with the Greeks and Romans, .the soul was condemned to many calamities for a number of 
ra 
military gentleman wlio resided at Penobscot during the late American war, assured us that the Indians, when desired to subscribe a written agreement, drew always the picture of the object or animal whose name they bore. But for fuller information on this subject, see clavigero’s Hist. of Mexico. 
s) The question which the sadducees put to our saviour about the wife of the seven brothers, is a proof 
that the Pharisees thought there was marriage and giving in marriage in the suture state, and that it was some what similar to the present. ... 
T)) sends the ghost of Hercules to the shades, while Hercules himself is quaffing nectar with Hebe in the skies. One soul of the hero is therefore repining with the ghosts of mortals in the regions below, while the other is enjoying all the happiness of the gods above. (see Odyssey, B. II near the end). Philosophers since have improved on this hint of the poet; and men have now got rational, animal, and vegetable souls, to which sometimes a fourth one is added, as properly belonging to matter in general. Homer insinuates, that Menelaus was to be transiated to Elysium without tasting death. This Elysium is the habitation of men, and not of ghosts, and is 
described as being similar to the seat of the gods. Compare 
Odyjss 
IV 1.563. and 
Qdyjss 
vi 
1. 
43. in the Greek, 
