of the troops, offering to be responsible for the public peace, and to proceed in a body to Paris to encoun ter personally every danger that might occur. But they were coolly told, that the king was the best judge of the mode of employing the troops, and that the presence of the assembly was necessary at Versailles. From a sovereign vvh® doubtless recollected the proceedings of the long parliament of England, a different reply could not in reason be expected. On receiving it, however, it was instantly decreed, on the motion of the marquis de lafayette, that the late ministry had 
carried with them 
the confidence of the assembly; that the troops 
ought 
to be 
removed; 
that the ministry are and shall be responsible to the people for their conduct; that the assembly persisted in all its former decrees; and that as it had taken the public debt under the protec tion of the nation, no power in France was entitled to pronounce the infamous word 
bankruptcy. 
The city of Paris was thrown into deep consterna tion by the news of M. neckar’s retreat. His bust and that of the Duke d’orleans were dressed in mourning, and carried through the streets. The royal all mand, a German regiment, broke in pieces the busts, and dispersed the populace. The prince De Lambefq, grand ecuyer of France, was ordered to advance with his regiment of cavalry, and take post at the Thuilleries. Being a man of a violent temper, and enraged by the appearances of disapprobation which were visible around him, he fursoussy cut down with his sword a poor old man who was walking peaceably in the gardens. The consequences of this act of inhumanity were such as might have been expected; a shout of execration in seantly arose; the cry 
to arms 
was heard; the military were assaulted on all sides; the French guards joined their countrymen, and compelled the Germans, over powered by numbers, and unsupported by the rest of the army, to retire. 
All order was now at an end, and as night approached an universal terror dissused itself through the city. Bands of robbers were collecting; and from them or from the foreign soldiery a general pillage was expected. The night passed away in consternation and tumult. It vvas found m thc morning that the hospital of st Lazare was already plundered. The alarm bells were rung; the citizens assembled at the Hotel de Ville, and adopted a proposal that was there made, of enrolling themselves as a militia for general defence, under the appellation of the 
national guard. 
This day and the succeed ing night were spent in tolerable quietness, without any attempt on the part of the army. On the morning of the memorable 14th of July, it was discovered that the troops encamped in the Champs Elisees had moved off, and an immediate assault was expected. The national guard now amounted to 150, 000 men; but they were in general destitute of arms. They had assumed a green cockade; but on recollecting that this was the livery of the Count d’artois, they adopted one of red, blue, and white. M. de la salle was named commander in chief, officers were chosen, and detachments sent around in quest of arms. In the Hotel des Invalides upwards of 30, 000 stand of arms were found, along with 20 pieces of cannon; a variety of weapons was also procured from the 
guard meuble de la couronne, 
and from the shops of armourers, cutlers, c » 
celebrated fortress of the Bastile was an object 
of much jealousy to the Parisians. 
At 11 o'clock in 
the morning, M. de la Rosiere, at the head of a numerous deputation, waited upon M. de Launay the go vernor, who promised, · along with the officers of his garrison, that they would not lire upon the city unless they should be attacked. But a report was soon spread through Paris, that M. de Launay had, in a short time thereafter, admitted into the sortress a multitude of persons, and then treacherously massacred them. The cause of this piece of perfidy has never been explained. The fact itself has been denied; but it was attested at the time by the duke of Dorset, the British ambassa dor at the court of France. The effect of the report was, that a sudden resolution was adopted of assaulting the Bastile; an immense and furious multitude rushed into its outer, and soon forced their way into its inner, courts, where they received and returned a severe sire for the space of an hour. The French guards, who were now embodied into the national guard, conducted the attack with skill and coolness: : dragged three wagons loaded with straw to the foot of the walls, and there set them on fire; the smoke of these broke the aim of the garrison, while it gave no disturbance to the more distant assailants. The besieging multitude pressed the attack with incredible obstinacy and vigour for the space of four hours; the garrison was in confusion; the officers served the cannon in person, and fired their muskets in the ranks; the governor, in despair, thrice attempted to blow up the fortress. A capitulation, when at last sought, was resused to the garrison, and an unconditional surrender took place. The governor, and M. de Lohne salbrai his major, a gentleman of distinguished humanity and honour, be came victims of popular fury in spite of every effort that could be made for their protection; but the French guards succeeded in procuring the safety of the garrison. Only seven prisoners were found in the Bastile. 
A guard was placed in it, and the keys were sent to the celebrated M. Brissot de warville, who a sew years before had inhabited one of its caverns. 
The remaining part of this eventful day was spent at Paris in a mixture of triumph and alarm. In the pocket of the governor of the Bastile a letter was found, encouraging him to resistance by the promise of speedy succours, written by M. de Flesselles, the prevot de marchands, or chief city magistrate, who had pretended to be a most zealous patriot. This piece of trea chery was punished by instant death; and his bloody head was carried through the city on a pole, along with, that of M. de Launay. At the approach of night 
a 
body of troops advanced towards the city, at the bar riere d’enfer. The new national guard hurried thither, preceded by a train of artillery, and the troops withdrew upon the first fire : barricadoes were everywhere formed, the alarm bells were rung, and a general illumination continued during the whole of this night of confusion. 
In the mean time, it was obvious that the new mini stry were entering upon a difficult scene of action, where one false step might lead to ruin, and where their own plan of conduct ought to be maturely digested. Marshal Broglio was made minister of war, the baron de Breteuil president of finance, M. de la gale ziere comptroller general, M. de la Port intendant of 
the war department, and 
M. Foulon intendant of the 
