Regiments were sirst formed in France in the year 1558, and in England in the year 1660. 
regiomontanus. see Muller. 
REGION, in geography, a large extent of land, inhabited by many people of the same nation, and enclosed within certain limits or bounds. 
The modern astronomers divide the moon into several regions, or large tracts of land, to each of which they give its proper name. 
Region, in physiology, is taken for a division of our ■atmosphere, which is divided into the upper, middle, and Iower regions. 
The upper region commences from the tops of the mountains, and reaches to the utmost limits of the atmosphere. In this region reign a perpetual, equable, calmness, clearness, and serenity. The middle region is that in which the clouds reside, and where meteors are formed, extending from the extremity of the lowest to the tops of the highest mountains. The lowest region is that in which we breathe, which is bounded by the reflection of thc fun’s rays; or by the height to which they rebound from the earth. see Atmosphere and Air. 
(Ethereal Region, 
in cosmography, is the whole extent of the universe, in which is included all the heavenly bodies, and even the orb of the sixed stars. 
Elementary Region, 
according to the Aristotelians, is 
a 
spliere terminated by the concavity of the moon’s orb, comprehending the atmosphere of the earth. 
Region, in anatomy, a division of the human body, otherwise called 
cavity, 
of which anatomists reckon three, viz. the upper region, or that of the head; the middle region, that of the thorax or breast; and the lower, the abdomen, or belly. see Anatomy. 
Region, in ancient Rome, was a part or division of the city. The regions were only four in number, till Augustus cæiar’s time, who divided the city into fourteen; over each of which he settled two surveyors, called 
curatores viarum, 
who were appointed annually, and took their divisions by lot. These fourteen regions contained four hundred and twenty-four streets, thirty-one of which were called 
greater 
or 
royal Jlreets, 
which began at the gilt pillar that stood at the entry of the open place, in the middle of the city. The extent of these divisions varied greatly, some being from 12000 or 1300010 33000 feet or upwards in circumference. Authors, however, are not agreed as to the exact limits of each. The curatores viarum wore the purple, had each two lictors in their proper divisions, had llaves under them .to take care of fires, that happened to break ■out. They had also two officers, called 
denunciatores, 
in ■each region, to give account of any disorders. Four 
vico magijlri 
also were appointed in each street, who took care of the streets allotted them, and carried the orders of the city to each citizen. 
regis ER, a public book, in which are entered and recorded memoirs, acts, and minutes, to be had re course to occasionally for knowing and proving matters of fact. Of these there are several kinds; as, 
I. 
Register of deeds in Yorkshire and Middlesex, in which are registered all deeds, conveyances, wills, c that affect any lands or tenements in those counties, which are otherwise void against any subsequent pur ■chascrs or mortgagees, chut this does not extend to 
any 
copyhold 
estate, nor to leases at a rack rent, or 
where they do not exceed 21 years. The registered memorials must be ingroffed on parchment, under the hand and seal of some of the granters or grantees, at tested by witnesses who are to prove the signing or sealing of them and the execution of the deed. But these registers, which are confined to two counties, are in scotland general, by which the laws of North Britain are rendered very easy and regular. Of these there are two kinds; the one general, fixed at Edinburgh, under the direction of the lord register; and the other is kept in the several shires, stewartries, and regalities, the clerks of which are obliged to transmit the registers of their respective courts to the general register. 
2. parish registers are books in which are registered the baptisms, marriages, and burials, of each parish. 
Registers were kept both at Athens and Rome, in which were inserted the names of such children as were to be brought up, as soon as they were born. Marcus Aurelius required all free persons to give in accounts of their children, within 30 days after the birth, to the treasurer of the empire, in order to their being deposited in the temple of saturn, where the public acts were kept. Officers were also appointed as public registers in the provinces, that recourse might be had to their lists of names, for fettling disputes, or pro ving any person’s freedom. 
Register ships, 
in commerce, are vessele which ob tain a permission either from the king of spain, or the council of the Indies, to traffic in the ports of the spa nish west Indies; which are thus called, from their be ing registered before they set faff from Cadiz for Buenos Airs. 
registers, in chemistry, are holes, or chinks with stopplea, contrived in the sides of furnaces, to regulate the sire; that is, to make the heat more intense or remiss, by opening them to let in the air, .or keeping them close to exclude it. There are also registers in the steam engine. see 
stf.am engine. 
registrar, an officer in the English universi ties, who has the keeping of all the public records. 
REGIUM, Regium 
Lepidi, Regium Lepidum, 
(anc geog.); a town of Cisalpine Gaul, on the Via Æmilia, so called srom Æmilius Lepidus, who was consul with C Flaminius; but whence it was surnamed 
Regium 
is altogether uncertain. Tacitus relates, that at the battle of Bedriacum, a bird of an unusual size was seen perching in a famous grove near Regium Lepidum. Now called 
Reggio, 
a city of Modena. E. Long. 11. o. N. Lat. 44. 45. see Reggio. 
REGNARD (John Francis), one of the best French comic writers after Moliere, was born at Paris in 1647. He had scarcely sinished his studies, when an ardent passion for travelling carried him over the greatest part of Europe, when he settled in his own country, he was made a treasurer of France, and lieutenant of the waters and forests : he wrote a great many comedies; and, though naturally of a gay genius, died of chagrin in the d year or his age. His works, consisting of comedies and travels, were printed at Rouen, in 5 vola imo, 1732. 
REGNIER (Mathurin), the sirst French poet who succeeded in satire, was born at Chartres in 1573. He was brought up to the church, a place for which his debaucheries rendered him very unsuitable;; these by 
his own conseffioh were so excessive, that at 
30 he had 
