various planks or pieces of timber, fastened together side by side, so as to be conveyed more commodiohsly to any short distance in a harbour or road than if they were separate. The timber and plank with which merchant ships are laden, in the different parts of the Baltic sea, are attached together in this manner, in order to float them off to the shipping, 
rafters, in building, are pieces of timber which, standing by pairs on the reason or railing piece, meet in an angle at the top, and form the roof of a building. see Architecture. 
Rowley RAGG, a genus of stones, belonging to the siliceous class. It is of a dusky or dark grey co lour, with many small Paining crystals, having a granular texture, and acquiring an ochry crust by exposure to the air. The specific gravity is 2748. It becomes magnetic by being heated in an open fire. In a strong fire it melts without addition, but with more difficulty than basaltes. It was analysed by Dr withering, who found that 100 parts of it contain 47.5 of siliceous earth, 32.5 of argil, and 20 of iron. 
ragman’s roll, Rectius ragimnnd’s roll, so called from one Ragimund a legate in scotland, who calling before him all the benesiced clergymen in that kingdom, caused them on oath to give in 
the true value 
of their benefices; according to which they were afterwards taxed by the court of Rome; and this roll, among other records, being taken from the scots by Edward I. was redelivered to them in the beginning of the reign of Edward III 
RAGOUT, or Ragoo, a sauce, or seasoning, intended to rouse the appetite .when lost or languishing. 
This term is also used for any high seasoned dish pre pared of flesh, fish, greens, or the like : by stewing them with bacon, salt, pepper, cloves, and the like ingredients, we have ragouts of celery, of endive, asparagus, cock’s combs, giblets, crawfish, c. 
The ancients had a ragout called 
garum, 
made of the putrisied guts of a certain fish kept till it dissolved into a mere sanies, which was thought such a dainty, that, according to Pliny, its price equalled that of the richest perfumes. 
ragstone, a genus of stones belonging to the class of siliceous earths. It is of a grey colour; the texture obscurely laminar, or rather, sibrous; but the laminae or fibres consist of a congeries of grains of a quartzy appearance, coarse and rough. The specific gravity is 2729; it esservesces with acids, and strikes fire with steel. Mr Kirwan found it to contain a portion of mild calareous earth, and a small proportion of iron. It is used "as a whetstone for coarse cutting took. It is found about Newcastle, and many other parts of eng land, where there are large rocks of it in the hills. 
RAGULED, or Ragged, in heraldry, jagged or knotted. This term is applied to a cross formed of the trunks of two trees without their branches, of which they show only the stumps. 
Raguled 
differs from 
indented, 
in that the latter is regular, the former not. 
ragusa, an ancient town of sicily, in the val di noto, near the river Maulo, 12 miles north of Modica. E. Long. 14. 59. N. Lat 37. o. 
Ragusa, a city of Dalmatia, and capital of ragu scn. It is about two miles in circumference, is pretty well built, and strong by situation, having an inaccessible 
mountain on the landside, and on the fide of the 
sea a strong fort. It has an archbishop’s 
see and a re 
public, and has a doge like that of Venice, but he continues a month only in his office. It carries on a con siderable trade with the Turks, and is 60 miles northwest of scutari, and 110 north of Brindisi. E. Long. 18. 10. N. Lat. 42. 5ό, 
ragusen, a territory of Europe in Dalmatia, lying along the coast of the gulf of Venice, about 55 miles in length, and 20 in breadth. It is a republic under the protection of the Turks and Venetians. ra gusa is the capital town. 
RAJA, the title of the Indian black princes, the remains of those who ruled there before the Moguls. some of the rajas are said to preserve their independen cy, especially in the mountainous parts; but most of them pay an annual tribute to the Mogul. Tile Indians call them 
rai; 
the Perflans, 
raian, 
in the plural; and our travellers 
rajas, 
or 
ragias. 
Raja, the 
Ray fofh, 
in ichthyology; a genus belonging to the order of Chondropterygia. There are five spiracula below towards the peak; the body compressed;; the mouth is situated under the head. The most remarkable species are, 
I. The batis, or skate : this species is the thinncst in proportion to its bulk of any of the genus, and also the largest, some weighing near 200 pounds. The nose, though not long, is sharp pointed; above the eyes is a set of ssiort spines : the upper part is of a pale brown, sometimes streaked with black : the lower part is white, marked with great numbers of minute black, spots. The jaws are covered with small granulated but sharp pointed teeth. The tail is of a moderate length : near the end are two sins : along the top of it is one row of spines, and on the edges are irregularly dispersed a few others, which makes us imagine with Mr Ray, that in thia respect these sish vary, some having one, others more orders of spines on the tail. It is remarked, that in the males of this species thç sins are full of spines. skates generate in March and April; at which time they swim near the surface of the water, several of the males pursuing one female. They adhere so fast together in coition, that the fisher men frequently draw up both together, though only one has taken the bait. The females begin to cast their 
purses, 
as the sishermen call them (the bags in which the young are included) in May, and continue doing it till september. In October they are exceedingly poor and thin; but in November they begin to improve, and grow gradually better till May, when they are in the highest perfection. The males go sooner out of season than the females. 
2. The oxyrinchus, or sharp nosed ray, in length near seven feet, and breadth five feet two inches; whenjust brought on shore, it makes a remarkable snorting noise The nose is very long, narrow, and sharp pointed, not unlike the end of a spontoon. The body is smooth, and very thin in proportion to the size; the upper part ash coloured, spotted with numerous white spots, and a few black ones. The tail is thick; towards the end are two small sins; on each fide is a row of small spines, with another row in the middle, which runs some way up the back. The lower part of the sifn is quite white. The mouth is very large, and furnished with numbers of small sharp teeth bending inwards. This sish has been supposed to be the 
los 
of the anci 
3 
