submitted . But the leading people of the important town and harbour of Toulon entered into a negotiation, and submitted to the British admiral Lord Hood, under condition that he should preserve as a depostt the town and shipping for Louis XVII and under the sti pulation that he should assist in restoring the constitu tion of 1789. The siege of Toulon was commenced by General Cartaux in the beginning of september. It continued without much vigour during that and the whole of the succeeding month. Neapolitan, spanish, and English troops, were brought by sea to assist in its defence. In the beginning of November, General Cartaux was removed to the command of the army in Italy, and General Dugommier succeeded him. General O’ Hara arrived with reinforcements from Gibraltar, and took upon him the command of the town, under a commission from his Britannic majesty. On the 30th of November, the garrison made 
a 
powerful sally to destroy some batteries that were erecting upon heights which commanded the city. The French were surprised, and the allies succeeded completely in their object; but, elated by the facility of their conquest, the allied troops rushed forward in pursuit of the flying enemy, contrary to their orders, and were unexpected ly met by a strong French force that was drawn out to protect the fugitives. General O’hara now came from the city to endeavour to bring off his troops with regularity. He was wounded in the arm and taken prisoner. Ί he total loss of the allies in this affair was estimated at nearly one thousand men. The French liad now mustered in full force around Toulon, and prepared for the attack. It was begun on the 19th of December in the morning, and was chiefly directed against Fort Mulgrave, defended by the British. This sort was protected by an entrenched camp, 13 pieces of cannon, 36 and 24 pounders, c. 5 mortars, and 3000 troops. such was the ardour of assault, that it was carried in an hour, and the whole garrison was destroyed or taken. The allies now found it impossible to defend the place; and in the course of the day embarked their troops, after having set on sire the arsenal and ships. A scene of confuiion here ensued, such as has not been known in the history of modern wars. Crowds of people of every rank, age, and sex, hurried on board the ships, to avoid the vengeance of their enraged countrymen. some of the inhabitants began to sire upon their late allies; others in despair were seen plunging into the sea, making a vain effort to reach the ships; or putting an end at once to their own existence upon the shore. thirty-one ships of the line were sound by the British at Toulon; thirteen were left behind; ten were burnt; four had been previously sent to the French ports of Breast and Rochefort, with 5000 republicans who could not be trusted; and Great Britain finally obtained by this expedition three ships of the line and sive fri gates. 
On the side of spain the war produced nothing of importance; and in the mountainous country of Piedmont it went on slowly. Nice and Chamberry were stili retained by the French; but more terrible scenes were acting in other quarters. In La Vendee a most bloody war was persisted in by the royalists. In that quarter of the country the language of the reff of France is little understood. The people were superstitious, and had acquired little idea of the new opinions that had 
lately been propagated ln the rest of the empire. 
They 
were chiefly headed by priests, and regarded their cause as a religious one. Their mode of warfare usually was, to go on in their ordinary occupations as peaceable citizens, and suddenly to assemble in immense bands, insomuch that at one time they were said to amount to 150, 000 men. They besieged Nantz and the city of Orleans, and even Paris itsels was not thought altoge there safe fi-om their enterprises. The war was inconceivably bloody. Neither party gave quarter; and La Vendee proved a dreadful drain to the population of France. On the 28th of June, the conventional general Biron drove the royalists from Lucon; and Nantz was relieved by general Beyffer. After some success, general Westerman was surprised by them, and compelled to retreat to Parthenay. In the beginning of August the royalists were defeated by general roffig nol; but on the 10th of that month, under Charette their commander in chief, they again attacked Nantz, but suffered a repulse. It would be tedious to give 
a 
minute detail of this obscure but cruel war. The roy alists were often defeated and seemingly dispersed, but as often arose in crowds around the astonished re publicans. At last, however, about the middle of oc tober, they were completely defeated, driven from La Vendée, and forced to divide into separate bodies. One of these threw itself into the isiand of Noirmoutier, where they were subdued; another took the road of Maine and Brittany, where they struggled for some time, against their enemies, and were at 'sast cut to pieces or dispersed. 
The royalists had long expected assistance from England; and an armament under the earl of Moira was actual ly fitted out for that service, but it did not arrive till too late, and returned home without attempting a landing. — The Mountain party always disgraced their successes by dreadful cruelties. Humanity is shocked, and histo ry would almost cease to obtain credit, were we to state in detail the unrelenting cruelties which were exercised against the unfortunate royalists, chiefly by Carrier, a deputy from the convention, sent into this quarter with unlimited powers. Multitudes of prisoners were crowded on board vessels in the Loire, aster which the vessels were sunk. No age nor sex was spared; and these executions were performed with every circumstance of wanton barbarity and insult. 
On the side of the Rhine a great variety of events occurred during the months of August and september. several engagements at sirst took place, in which the French were, upon the whole, successful. In septem ber, however, Landau was invested by the combined powers; and it was resolved to make every possible ef smt to drive the French from the strong lines of weis sembourg, on the river Lauter. On the 13th of oc tober, the Austrian general wurmser made a grand attack upon these lines. she French say that their generals betrayed them, and suffered the lines to be taken almost without reslstance. The general of the al lies confessed that the lines might have held out for several days. The French retreated to Hagenau, from which they were driven on the 18th; and suffered two other defeats on the 25th and 27th. some of the principal citizens of strashourg now sent a private deputa tion to general wurmser, offering to surrender the town, to be preserved as a deposit to be restored to 
