up 
of arms traiteroussy against the king, whether by na tural subjects, or others when once subdued; and the word 
rebel 
is sometimes applied to him who wilfully breaks a law; also to a villein disobeying his lord. 
There is a difference between enemies and rebels. Enemies are those who are out of the king’s allegiance: therefore subjects of the king, either in open war, or rebellion, are not the king’s enemies, but traitors. And David Prince of Wales, who levied war against Edw. I. because he was within the allegiance of the king, had sentence pronounced against him as a traitor and rebel. Private persons may arm themselves to suppress rebels, enemies, c. 
rebellious assembly, is a gathering toge fher of twelve persons or more, intending or going about to practice or put in use unlawfully, of their own authority, anything to change the law or statutes of the realm; or to destroy the enclosures of any ground, or banks of any sish pond, pool, or conduit, to the in tent the same shall lie waste and void; or to destroy the deer in any park, or any warren of conies, dove houses, or sish in ponds; or any house, barns, mills, or bays; or to burn stacks of corn; or abate rents, or prices of victuals, c. 
rebus, an enigmatical representation of some name, c. by using figures or pictures instead of words, or parts of words. Camden mentions an instance of this absurd kind of wit in a gallant who expressed his love to a woman named 
Rose Hill, 
by painting in the border of his gown a rose, a hill, an eye, a loaf, and a well; which, in the style of the rebus, reads, " 
Rose Hill I ove weup 
This kind of wit was long practised by the great, who took the pains to find devices for their names. It was, however, happily ridiculed by Ben Johnson, in the humorous description of Abel drug ger’s device in the Alchemist; by the spectator, in the device of Jack of Newberry; at which time the rebus, being raised to sign posts, was grown out of fashion at court. 
Rebus is also used by the chemical writers sometimes to signify sour milk, and sometimes for what they call the ultimate matter of which ail bodies are composed. 
Rebus, in heraldry, a coat of arms which bears an allusion. to the name of the person; as three castles, for Castleton; three cups, for Butler; three conies, for Conishy; a kind of bearings which are of great antiquity. 
REBUTTER (from the Fr. 
bonter, 
i. e. 
repellere, 
to put back or bar), is the answer of defendant to plain tiff’s 
surrejoinder; 
and plaintiff’s answer to the rebutter is called a 
surrebutler : 
but it is very rare the parties go so far in pleading. 
Rebutter is also where a man by deed or sine grants to warranty any land or hereditament to another; and the person making the warranty, or his heir, sues him 
to 
whom the warranty is made, or his heir or assignee, for the same thing; if he who is so sued plead the deed or sine with warranty, and pray judgement, if the plain tiss shall be received to demand the thing which he ought to warrant to the party against the warranty in the deed, c. this is calied a 
rebutter 
And if I grant to a tenant to hold without impeachment of waste, and afterwards implead him for waste done, he may debar me of this action 
by showing my grant which is a rebutter,, 
RECAPITULATION, is 
a summary, or a concise 
and transient enumeration of the principal things insisted on in the preceding discourse, whereby the force of the whole is collected into one view. see Oratory, 
n 
37 and 127, 
RECEIPT, or Receu·, in commerce, an acquit tance, or disoharge, in writing, intimating that the par ty has received a certain sum of money, either in full for the whole debt, or in part, or on account. 
RECEIVER, in pneumatics, a glass vessel for containing the thing on which an experiment in the air pump is to be made. 
rece!ver, 
receptor 
or 
receptator, 
in law, is commonly understood in a bad sense, and used for such as know ingly receive stolen goods from thieves, and conceal them. This crime is felony, and the punishment is transporta tion for 14 years. 
recensio was an account taken by the censors, every lustrum, of ali the Roman people. It was a ge neral survey, at which the equites, as well as the rest of the people, were to appear. New names were now put upon the censor’s list, and old ones cancelled. The 
recenso, 
in short, was a more solemn and accurate sort of 
probatio, 
and answered the purpose of a review, by showing who were fit for military service 
RECEPTACULUM, in botany, one of the seven parts of fructification, defined by Linnæus to be the base which connects or supports the other parts. 
Receptaculum Chyli, 
or 
pecquet’s Reservatory, 
the reservoir or receptacle for the chyle, situated in the left fide of the upper vertebra of the loins, under the aorta and the vessels of the left kidney. 
rechabites, a kind of religious order among the ancient Jews, instituted by Jonadab the son of re chab, comprehending only his own family and posteri ty. Their founder prescribed them three things : first, not to drink any wine; secondly, not to build any houses, but to dwell in tents; and thirdly, not to sow any corn, or plant vines. 
The Rechahites observed these rules with great strict ness, as appears from Jer. XXXV 
6, 
c. whence st. Jerome, in his 13th epistle to Paulinus, calls them 
monachi, monks. 
Jonadab, their founder, lived under Jelioash,. king of Judah, contemporary with Jehu king of Israel; his father Rechab, from whom his posterity were denominated, descended from Raguel or Jethro, father-in-law to Moses, who was a Kenite, or of the race of Ken r whence Kenite and Rechabite are used as synonymous in scripture. 
RECHEAT, in hunting, 
a 
lesson which the hunts man plays on the horn, when the hounds have lost their game, to call them back from pursuing 
a 
counter scent. 
RECIPE, in medicine, a prescriptlon, or remedy, to be taken by a patient : so called because always begin ning with the word 
recipe, 
i. e. 
take; 
which is generally denoted by the abbreviature st. 
RECIPROCAL, in general, something that is mu tual, 
or 
which is returned equally on both sides, or that affects both parties alike. 
Reciprocal 
T 
erms, 
among logicians, are those which have the same lignification; and consequently are convertible, or may be used for each other. 
Reciprocal in mathematics, is applied to quanti. 
