dest . He, however, lived in the utmost splendour'; most of the eminent masters of his time were ambitious of working under him 5 and he never went out without a crowd of artists and others, who followed him purely through respect. He was not only the best painter in the world, but perhaps the best architect too; on which account Leo X charged him with building st peter’s church at Rome : but he was too much addicted to pleasure, which occasioned his death at 37 years osage. He left a great number of diseiples; among ■whom were Julio Romano and John Francis Penn who were his heirs. Many able engravers, as raimon di, George Mantuan, and Bloemart, engl aved after ra phael. see Painting, p. 595 and 598. 
RAPHAIM, or Rephaim, (Moses), a name signi fymg 
Giants, 33 
they really were, and an actual people too, situated in Basan or Batanea, beyond Jordan, separated from the Zanzummim by the river Jabbok. al so a valley near Jerusalem; Joshua X 
raphanus, radish; a genus of the siliquosa order, belonging to the tetradynamia class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 39th order, 
siliquofie. 
The calyx is close; the siliqua torose, or swelling out in knots, subarticulated, and round. There are two melliferous glandules between the shorter stamina and the pistil, and two between the longer stamina and the calyx. 
There is only one species, viz. the sativus, or common garden radish; of which there are several varieties. They are annual plants, which being sowed in the spnng, attain perfection in two or three months, and shoot up scon after into stalk for flower and feed, which, ripening in autumn, the whole plant, root and top, perishes; so that a fresh supply must be raised an nually from seed in the spring, performing the sowincrs at several different times, from about Christmas until May, in order to continue a regular succession of young tender radishes throughout the season : allowing only a fortnight or three weeks interval between the sow scw one crop will not contmue good longer than that space of time, before they will either run to feed, or become tough, stscky, and too hot to eat. 
raphanidosis, a punishment inflicted at a thens upon adulterers. The manner of it was this; The hair was plucked off from the privities of the offender, hot ashes laid upon the place, and a radish or mullet thrust up his fundament, as has been mentioned under Adultery. To this Juvenal alludes, 
sat. 
X ver. 
31 7· 
soffofdam machos e t mugilis intrat. 
Persons who had been thus punished were called tu*po( xii. The word 
raphanidofis 
is derived from p 
« φαοκ, 
a radish. 
RAPHIDIA, in zoology · a genus of insects, of the neuroptera order; the character s of which are these; The head is of a horny substance, and depressed or flattened : the mouth is armed with two teeth, and furnished with four palpi : the stemmata are three in number : the wings are deflected : the antennae are filiform, as long as the thorax; the anterior part of which is lengthened out, and of a cylindrical form : the tail of the female is terminated by an appendix, resembling a flexible crooked bristle. — There are three species. The most remarkable is the ophiopsis; which for its shape is one of the most singular that can be seen f. It has an oblong head, shaped 
like a 
heart, 
with its point joined to the thorax, and the broad part before. It is smooth, black, flattened, continually ihaking, .with, short antennae, yellowish maxilîæ, and tour palpi. Towards the middle of the upper part of the head, between the eyes, are the three stemmata, placed m a triangle. The thorax, to which this head is rahe»ed, ls narrow, long, and cylindrical. The ab domen, broader, is black like the rest of the body, with the fcgments margined yellow. The feet are of a 
yellowish 
cast. The wings, which are fastigiated, are white, dlaphanous, veined, and as it were covered with a very fine network of black. This insect, in the figure of its head, resembles a snake. It is found but seldom, and m woods only. Its larva, chrysalis, and habltatlon, are absolutely unknown. 
RAPIER, formerly signified a long old-fashioned sword, such as those worn by the common soldsers : but it now denotes a smaltsword, as contradistinguism ed from a back sword. 
RAI IN (Rene), a Jefust and eminent French writer, was born at Tours in 1621. He taught polite iterature in the society of the Jesusts with ' great ap plauie, and was justly esteemed one of the best Latin poets and greatest wits of his time. He died at pa ns m 1687. He wrote, 1. A great number of Latin Poems, which have rendered him famous throughout all Europe; among which are his 
Hortorum l'pri tuor, 
wluch is reckoned his masterpiece. 2. re flectlons on Eloquence, Poetry, History, and Philo 3 ‘ Com Parisons between Virgil and Homer, Demosthenes and Cicero, Plato and Aristotle, thu cydldes and Titus Livius. 4. The History of janse several works on religious subjects. The best edltlon of his Latin poems is that of Paris in L 72 3> in 3 vols imo. 
Rapin Æ 
Thoyras 
(Paul de), a celebrated historsan, was the son of James de Rapin lord of Thoyras, and was born at Castres in 1661. He was educated at sost under a tutor m lus father’s house; and afterwards lent to Puylaurens, and thence to saumur. In j6q 
7 
sevftu, r ie his r f ïhe? with a defl ssn to a PPJ yhim - 
stls to the study of the law, and was admitted an advocate: : some time after, reflecting that fiis being, a 1 rotestant would prevent his advancement at the bar, he resolved to quit the profession of the law, and apply hlmfelf to that of the sword;; his father "s°xt not .con ^ent to Jt · The revocation of the edict of Nantes in 1685·, and the death of his father, which happened two months after, made him resolve to come to England; but as he had no hopes of any settlement here, lus stay was but short. He therefore soon after went to Holland, and lifted himself in the company or French volunteers at Utrecht, commanded by M. Kapm hls cousm german. He attended the Prince of Orange into England in 1688 : and the following year the Lord Kingston made him an ensign in his regiment with which he went into Inland, where he gained the esteem of lus officers at the siege of Carrscksergus, and had soon a lieutenant’s commission. He was 
present 
at the battle of the Boyne, and was shot thro’the shoulder at the siege of Limerick. He was soon after captain of the company 111 which he had been ensign · but, in 1693, resigned his company to one of his brothers, in order to be tutor to the earl of Portland’« 
