their names; and it 
must 
be confessed, that his replies abounded with sarcasms, which the most rational friends to the cause which he supported would not have been sorry to see blotted from his pages. The provocation, however, which he received was great; and Mr ram say, though an amiable, virtuous, and pious man, had a warmth of temper, which, though not deserving of praise, will be censuredhy none who reflect on the frailties of our common nature. That the particular calumnies propagated against him on this occasson were wholly gronndless, it is impossible to doubt, if we admit him to have been possessed of common understanding. when some years ago a story was circulated, of swift’s ha ving, when prebendary of Kilroot, been convicted before a magistrate of an attempt to commit a rape on the body of one of his parishioners, it was thought a sufficient confutation of the calumny to put the retail er of it in mind, that the dean of st patrick’s, though detested by the most powerful faction in the kingdom, lampooned without dread, and with great severity, the dean of Ferns for the very crime of which, had this anecdote been true, he must have been conscious that all Ireland knew himself to be guilty! such conduct cannot be reconciled to common-sense. Had swift been a ravisher, though he might have been penitent, and reasoned in general terms against giving way to such licentious passions, he would never have satyrised a 
particular person 
for the crime of which he himself stood convicted. In like manner, had Mr Ramsay been a tyrant to his own ssaves, though he might have ar gued against ssavery in the abstract, on the broad basss of virtue and religion, lie never could have arraigned for ssmilar cruelty a number of individuals in the very issand which wstneffed his own enormities. 
But the melancholy part of the narrative is behind. The agitation given to his mind by these calumnies, and the fatigues he underwent in his endeavours to re scqe from misery the most htlpless portion of the human race, contributed to shorten a life in no common degree useful. He had been for some time afflicted with a pain in his ftomacli, for which he was prevailed upon, tho’ with great reluctance, to try the effects of air and ex ercise, by attempting a journey of ioo miles. But in London, being seized with a violent vomiting of blood, he was unable either to proceed or to be removed home; and in the house of sir Charles Middleton he ended his days, on the 20th of July 1789, amidst the groans of his family, and the tears of many friends. — Thus died a man, of whom it is not too much to say, that " the blessing of many that were ready to perish came upon him for whatever be the fate of the ssave trade (fee slavery), it is certain that his writings have contributed much to meliorate the treatment of ssaves He left behind him a widow and three daughters : and his works, bessdes those to which we have al luded, conslft of a volume of 
seasermons, 
preached on board his majesty’s ship the Prince of wales, which (how him to have been a master of true pulpit eloquence; and a 
Treatse on signals, 
which was certainly written, and we think printed, though we know not whether it was ever published. 
ramsden’s Machine 
sor Dividing 
mathema tical Instruments, is a late invention, by which these divissons can be performed with exceeding great 
accuracy, such as would formerly have been deemed in 
credible. On difeovering the method of 
construct'ng 
this machine, its inventor, Mr Ramscsen of Piccadilly, received 615 1. from the commissioners of longitude; engaging himself to instruct a certain number of persons, not exceeding ten, in the method of making and using this machine from the 28th October 1775 to 28th October 1777 : also binding himself to divide all octants and sextants by the same engine, at the rate of three shillings for each octant, and six shillings for each brass sextant, with nonius’s divisions to half minutes, for as long time as the commissioners should think proper to let the engine remain in his possession Of this sum of 615 1. paid to Mr Ramsden, 3001. was given him as a reward for the improvement made by him in difeovering the engine, and the remaining 315i. for his giving up the property of it to the commis sioners. The following description of the engine, is that given upon oath by Mr Ramsden himself. 
"This engine consssts of a large wheel of bell metal, snpported on a mahogany stand, having three legs, which are strongly connected together by braces, so as to make it perfectly steady. On each leg of the stand is placed a conical friction pulley, whereon the dividing wheel rests : to prevent the wheel from Aiding off the friction pulleys, the bell metal centre under it turns in a socket on the top of the stand. 
"The circumference of the wheel is ratched or 
cut 
(by a method which will be described hereafter) into 2160 teeth, in which an endless screw acts. six revolutions of the screw will move the wheel a space equal to one degree. 
"Now a circle of brass being fixed on the screw ar bor, having its circumference divided into 60 parts, each division will consequently answer to a motion of the wheel of 10 seconds, six of them will be equal to a minute, c" 
"different arbours of tempered steel are truly ground into the socket in the centre of the wheel. The upper parts of the arbours that stand above the plane are turned of various sizes, to sust the centres of different pieces of work to be divided. 
"when any instrument is to be divided, the centre of it is very exactly fitted on one of these arbours; and the instrument is fixed down to the plane of the dividing wheel, by means of screws, which fit into holes made in the radii of the wheel for that purpose. 
“The instrument being thus fitted on the plane of the wheel, the frame which carries the dividing point is connected at one end by singer screws with the frame which carries the endless screw; while the other end embraces that part of the steel arbour, which stands above the instrument to be divided, by an angular notch in a piece of hardened steel; by this means both ends of the frame are kept perfectly steady and free from any shake. 
"The frame carrying the dividing point or tracer, is made to Aide on the frame which carries the endless screw to any distance from the centre of the wheel 
as 
the radius of the instrument to be divided may require, and may be there fastened by tightening two clamps; and the dividing point or tracer being connected with the clamps by the double jointed frame, admits a free and easy motion towards or from the centre for 
cut 
ting the divissons, without any lateral shake. 
"From what has been said, it appears, that an in 
