which reason they kill it whenever they perceive this retardation. But in what manner the remora performs this, we have no account. 
remorse, in its worst sense, means that pain or anguish which one feels after having committed some bad action. It also means tenderness, pity, or sym pathetic sorrow. It is rnost generally used in a bad sense, and is applied to persons who feel compunction for some great clime, as murder and such like. mur ders which have been commuted with the utmost circumspection and secrecy, and the authors of which could never have been discovered by any human investigation, have been frequently unfolded by the remorse and confession of the perpetrators, and that too many years afterwards. Of this there are numerous instances, which are well authenticated, and which are so generally known that it is needless to relate them here. see Repentance. 
REMPHAN, an idol or Pagan god whom st stephen says the Israelites worshipped in the wilderness as they passed from Egypt to the land of Promise : “Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan; figures which ye made to wot ship them.” That the martyr here quotes the following words of the prophet Amos, all commentators are agreed: : " have born the tabernacle of your Moloch, and Chiun your images, the star of your god, which ye made to yourselves.” But if this coincidence between the Christian preacher and the Jewish prophet be admitted, it follows, that 
Churn 
and 
Remphan 
are two names of one and the same deity. This is indeed farther evident from the LXX translators having sub stituted in their version the word Ι ’α, ?αν, instead of 
Chiun, 
which we read in the Hebrew and English Bibles. But the question which still remains to be answered is, what god was worshipped by the name of 
Remphan, Raiphan, 
or 
Chiun? 
sor about the other divi jiity here mentioned there is no dispute. see Moloch. 
That 
Chiun 
or 
Remphan 
was an Egyptian divinity, cannot be questioned; sor at the era of the 
Exodus 
the Hebrews must have been strangers to the idolatrous worship of all other nations; nor are they ever accused of any other than Egyptian idolatries during their 40 years wanderings in the wilderness, till towards the end of that period that they became infected by the moa bites with the worship of 
baal peor. 
That 
Moloch, mo leck, Melek, 
or 
Milcom, 
in its original acceptation denotes a 
king 
or 
chief, 
is known to every oriental scholar; and therefore when it is used as the name of a god, it undoubtedly signisies the 
fun, 
and is the same divinity with the 
Egyptian Offris. 
Reasoning in this way many critics, and we believe seldom is in the number, have concluded that 
Chiun, 
and of course 
Remphan, 
is the planet 
saturn; 
because 
Chiun 
is written 
Ciun, Cevan, Ceuan, Chemin; 
all of which are modern oriental names of that planet. 
But against this hypothesis insurmountable objections present themselves to our minds. It is universally allowed (see Polytheism), that the sirst objects of idolatrous worship were 
ùszjun 
and 
moon, 
considered 
as the king and queen 
of 
heaven. The sixed stars, indeed, and the planets, were asterwards gradually admit ted into the Pagan rubric; but we may be sure that those would b.c. sirst associated with the two prime luminaries which most resembled them in brightness, and were supposed to be most benignant to man. But the planet saturn appears to the naked eye with so feeble a lustre, that, in the insancy of astronomy, it could not make such an impression on the mind as to excite that admiration which we must conceive to have always preceded planetary worship. It is to be ob served, too, that by the Pagan writers of antiquity saturn is constantly represented as a star of baleful influence. He is termed the 
leaden planet; 
the 
planet of malevolent affect; 
the 
dismal, 
the 
inhumaneffar. 
That the Egyptians, at so early a period as that under consi deration, should have adored as one of their greatest g®ds a planet obscure in its appearance, distant in its situation, and baleful in its influence, is wholly incredible. 
There is, however, another star which they might naturally adore, and which we know they actually did adore, as one of their most beneficent gods, at a very early period. This is the 
or σιιςιος 
o f the 
Greeks, the 
canis 
or 
fella canicularis 
of the Romans, and the 
dog far 
of modern Eurbpe. By the Egyptians it was called 
sothis 
or 
soth, 
which signisies/u/spy, 
beneffience, fecundity; 
and it received this name, because making its appearance ip the heavens at the very time when the Nile overflowed the country, it was supposed to regulate the inundation. On this account Plutarch 
(If., et Offr.) 
telis us, they believed the soul of their illustrious: benefactress 
Iffs 
to have transmigrated into the 
siarsoihis, · 
which they therefore worshipped as the divinity which rendered their country fruitful. It made its appearance, too, on the first day of the month 
Thoth (K), 
which was the beginning of the Egyptian year, and as such celebrated with feasting and sestivity; and being by much the brightest star in the heavens, Horopollo 
(cap. 
3.) informs us it was considered as sovereign over the rest. A combination of so many import ant circumstances might have induced a people lesa superstitious than the Egyptians to pay divine homage to that glorious luminary, which was confounded with 
Iffs, 
who had been long regarded with the highest veneration;; as Isis was the wife and sister of Osiris, and always associated with him, the star of Isis or 
Remphan 
was naturally associated with 
Moloch, 
the same with Osiris. 
But it will be asked, how the star which by the e gyptians was called 
soth 
or 
sothis 
came to be worshsp ped by the Hebrews under the appellation of 
Chiun 
or 
Remphan? 
This is a very pertinent question, and we ' shall endeavour to answer it. 
Every one knows that the pronunciation of oriental, words is very uncertain; and that as the vowels were often omitted in writing, it is of very little importance to the meaning how they be supplied, provided we re tain the radical consonants. The word 
Chiun 
may with equal propriety be written 
Kiun, Eton, 
or even 
Kyon, 
(λ) This was the cafe at a ver' remote period; but it is otherwise at present, owing to the 
Precession of the Equinoxes. 
see that article. 
