Pencil of 
Rays, 
a number of 
rays 
issuing from a point of an object, and diverging in the form of a cone. 
RAZOR, a well-known instrument, used by surgeons, barbers, c. for shaving off the hair from va rious parts of the body. — As shaving to many people is a most painful operation, cutlers in different coun tries have long applied their skill to remove that inconvenience. some have invented soaps of a peculiar kind to make the operation more easy, and some have invented straps. with respect to razors, some artists have succeeded rather by accident than from any fixed principle;; therefore we have found great inequality in the goodness of razors made by the same artist. 
A correspondent affures us, that he has for 40 years past been at much pains to find out razors made by the best makers both in England and scotland, and was fortunate enough, about 22 years ago, to discover a kind made by a scotchman of the name of 
Logan, 
which he called magnetical razors, because they were directed to be touched with an artificial magnet before using. These, our friend assures us, are most excellent razors, and he has used them for upwards of 20 years. He says likewise that they continue in good order, without requiring to be ground; but that the great drawback on their being generally used, is the price, which is higher than most people are able or disposed to give ' for that instrument. ‘ Our correspondent, who resides in the vicinity of London, also informs us, that lately the famous furgeon’s instrument maker, Mr savigny in Pall Mall, after numberless experiments, in the course of above 20 years, has at length brought razors to a degree of perfection never yet equalled; and with such certainty, that the purchaser is in no danger of a disappointment, though the price is very moderate. By these, we are told, the operation of shaving is performed with greater ease, more perfectly, and more expeditiously, 
than with any other. 
RE, in grammar, an inseparable particle added to the beginning of words to double or otherwise modify their meaning; as in re action, re move, τε export, c. 
RE action, in physiology, the resistance made by all bodies to the action or impulse of others that endeavour to change its state whether of motion or rest, c. 
READING, the art of delivering written language with propriety, force, and elegance. 
"we must not judge so unfavourably of eloquence or good reading (says the illustrious Fenelon), as to reckon it only a frivolous art, that a declaimer uses to impose upon the weak imagination of the multitude, and to serve his own ends. It is a very serious art, designed to instruct people; to suppress their passions and reform their manners; to support the laws, direct public councils, and to make men good and happy.” 
Reason and experience demonstrate, that 
delivery in reading ought to be less animated that in interefied speaking. 
In every exercise of the faculty of speech, and those expressions of countenance and gesture with which it is generally attended we may be considered to be always in one of the two following situations : First, delivering our 
bosom sentiments 
on circumstances which relate to ourselves or others, or, secondly, 
repeating 
something 
that was spoken on a certain occasion for the amusement 
or information of an auditor. Now, if we observe 
the deliveries natural to these two situations, we shall find, that the first may be accompanied with every degree of expression which can manifest itself in us, from the lowest of sympathy to the most violent and energe tic of the superior passions;; the latter, from the speaker’s chief business being to repeat what he heard 
with accuracy, 
discovers only a faint imitation of those signs of the emotions which we suppose agitated him from whom the words were first borrowed. — The use and necessity of this difference of manner is evident;. and if we are attentive to these natural signs of expression, we shall find them conforming with the great est nicety to the slightest and most minute movements of the breast. 
This repetition of another’s words might be supposed. to pass through the mouth of a second or third person; and in these cases, since they were not ear and eye witnesses of him who first spoke them, their manner of de livery would want the advantage necessarily arising from an immediate idea of the original one; hence, on this account, this would be a still less lively representation than that of the first rater. But as, from a daily observation of every variety of speech and its associated signs of emo tion, mankind soon become pretty well acquainted with them, and this in different degrees, according to their discernment, sensibility, c. experience shows us that these latter 
repeaters 
(as we call them) might conceive and use a manner of delivery which, though less 
character ristic 
perhaps, would on the whole be no way inferior to the sirst, as to the 
common 
natural expression proper for their situation. It appears, therefore, that repeaters of 
every degree 
may be esteemed upon a level as to anima tion, and that our twofold distinction above contains accurately enough the whole variety of ordinary delivery; — we say 
ordinary, 
because 
There is another very peculiar kind of delivery sometimes used in the person of a 
repeater, 
of which it will in this place be necessary to take some notice, what we mean here is 
mimicry; 
an accomplishment which, when perfectly and properly displayed, never fails of yielding a high degree of pleasure. But since this pleasure chiefly ’results from the principle of 
imitation 
respecting 
manner, 
and not from the purport of the 
matter 
communicated; since, comparatively speaking, it is only attainable by few persons, and practised only on particular occasions; — on these accounts it must Ge resused a place among the modes of useful delivery taught us by 
general 
nature, and esteemed a qualifica tion purely anomalous. 
These distinctions with regard to a speaker’s situation of mind premised, let us see to which of them an 
author 
and his 
reader 
may most properly be referred, and how they are circumstanced with regal d to one another. 
The matter of all books is, either what the author says in his 
own 
person, or an acknowledged recital of the words of 
others : 
hence an author may be esteemed both an 
original 
speaker and a 
repeater, 
according as what he writes is f the first or second kind. Now a reader must be supposed either actually to personate the author, or one whose office is barely to communicate what he has said to an auditor. But in the first of these fuppositions hee would, in the delivery of what is the au thor’s 
own, evidently commence, 
mimic; 
which being, as 
