eonfess himself guilty of a given crime.” see 
Αςτ of Faith, 
Inquisition, and Torture. 
Rack, a spirituous liquor made by the Tartars of Tongusla. This kind of rack is made of mare’s milk, which is left to be four, and afterwards distilled twice of thrice between two earthen pots closely stopped; whence the liquor runs through a small wooden pipe. This liquor is more intoxicating than brandy distilled from wine. 
Rack, or 
Arack. 
see Arack. 
To RACK Wines, 
sv. To draw them off from their lees, after having stood long enough to ebb and settle. Hence rack vintage is frequently used for the second voyage our wine merchants 
use to 
make into France for racked wines. 
RAC KOON, in zoology, a species of Ursus. 
RAJCONI, a populous town of Italy, in Piedmont, seated in a pleasant plain, on the road from savillan to Turin, on the rivers Grana and Macra. It belongs to the prince of Carignan, who has a handsome cattle here. It is six miles from savillan, and six from Carignan. E. Long. 7. 46. N. Lat. 44. 39. 
RADCLIFFE (.Dr John), an English physician of great eminence in his time, born at wakesield in Yorkshire in 1650. He was educated at Oxford, and enrolled himself upon the physical line; but it was re markable that he recommended himself more by his ready wit and vivacity, than by any extraordinary ac quisitions in learning. He began to practice at Oxford 
in 
1675; but never paid any regard to established rules, which he censured whenever he thought fit, with great freedom and acrimony; and as this drew all the old practitioners upon him, he lived in a continual state of hostility with them. Nevertheless, his reputation in creased with his experience; so that, before he had been two years in business, his practice was very extensive among persons of high rank. In 1684 he removed to London, and fettled in bow-street, Covent Garden, where in less than a year he got into prime business. — In 1687 the princess Anne of Denmark made him her physician : yet when her husband and she joined the prince of Orange, Radcliffe, either not choosing to declare himself, or unwilling to favour the measures then in agitation, excused himself from attending them, on the plea of the multitude of his patients. Nevertheless, he was often sent for to King william and other great personages, though he did not incline to be a courtier. He incurred some censure for his treatment of (qumary, who died of the smallpox;; soon after lost his place about the princess Anne, by his attachment to his bottle. He also totally lost the favour of K. wslliam by his un courtly freedom; for, in 1699, when the king showed him his swollen ankles, while the rest of his body was emaciated, and asked him what he thought of them? " why truly I would not have your majesty’s two legs for your three kingdoms, ” replied Radcliffe. He continued increasing in business and insolence as long as he lived, continually at war with his brethren the physicians;; coniidered him in no other light than that of an act ive ingenious empiric, whom constant practice had at \ ngth brought to some degree of skill in his professio. He died in 1714; and if he never attempted to wrste anything himself, has perpetuated his me mory by founding a fine library at Oxford, to preserve the writings of other men. 
radialis, the 
name of two muscles in 
the arm. see 
Anatomy, 
Table of the Muscles, 
RADIANT, in optics, is any point 
of 
a visible ob ject from whence rays proceed. 
RADIATED flowers, in botany, are such as have several semifloscules sct round a, disc, in form 
of 
a radiant star; those which have no such rays are called 
dof ous flowers, 
RADIATION, the act of a body emitting 
or 
dif fusing rays of light all round as from a centre. 
RADICAL, in general, something that serves as 
a 
basis or foundation. Hence physicians talk much of a radical moisture. In grammar, we give the appella tion 
radical 
to primitives, in contradistinction to compounds and derivatives. Algebraists also speak of the radical sign of quantities, which is the character expres fing their roots. 
RADICLE, that part of the seeds of all plante which upon vegetating becomes their root, and is discoverable by the microscope. see Plant. 
radish, in botany. see Raphanus. 
radius, in geometry, the semidiameter of a circle, or a right line drawn from the centre to the circumference. 
In trigonometry, the radius is termed the whole sine, 
or 
sine of 90°. 
see 
sine. 
Radius, in anatomy, the exterior bone of the arm, · descending along with the ulna from the elbow to the wrist. 
RADNOR, the county town of Radnorshire, in south wales. It is a poor little place, distant, from London about 150 miles. It is situated near the spring head of the river somergil, in a fruitful valley at the bottom of a hill, where there are sheep grazing in abundance. It is a very ancient borough town, whose ju risdiction extends near 12 miles round about : the government of it is vested in a bailiff and 25 burgesses. Though it is the county town, the assizes are held at Presteign : it has one privilege, however, that is very extraordinary, besides that of sending one member to parliament;; that is, it keeps a court of pleas for all actions, without being limited to any particular sum.. It was formerly fenced with a wall and a strong castle j hut both were in a great measure demolished by Owen Glendower, when he assumed the title of Prince of wales, upon the deposition of King Richard II W. Long. 2. 45. N. Lat. 52. io. 
radnorshire, a county of south wales, 
is 
bounded on the north by Montgomeryshire; on. the east by shropshire and Herefordshire; on the south and southwest by Brecknockshire; and on the west bycar diganshire; extending 30 miles in length and 25 in brtadth. This county is divided into six hundreds, in which are contained three market towns, 52 parishes, about 3160 houses, and 18, 960 inhabitants. It is seated in the diocese of Hereford, and sends two members to parliament, one for the county and one for the town of Radnor. The air of this county is in winter cold and pieicing. The soil in general is but indifferent j yet some places produce corn, particularly the eastern and southern parts; but in the northern and western, which are mountainous, the land is chiefly stocked with homed cattle, sheep, and goats. 
RADIX. see Root. 
RAFT, a sort of float, formed by an 
assemblage of 
