all the infirmities of age. Yet he obtained a canonry in the church of Chartres, with other benefices; and died in 1613. There is a neat Elzevir edition of his works, imo, 1652, Leyden; but the most elegant is that with notes by M. Brossette, 4x0, 1729, London. 
Regnier des Makets (seraphin), a French poet, born at Paris in 1632. He distinguished himself early by bis poetical talents, and in 1684 was made perpetual secretary to the French academy on the death ofme zeray : it was he who drew up all those papers in the name of the academy against Furetiere : the king gave him the priory of Grammont, and he had also an ab bey. He died in 713, and his works are, French, i talian, spanish, and Latin poems, 2 vols; a French grammar; and an Italian transsation of anacreon’s odes, with some other transsations. 
REGNUM (anc. geog.), a town of the Regni, a people in Britain, next the Cantii, now surry, sussex, and the coast of Hampshire, (Camden); a town si tuated, by the Itinerary numbers, on the confines of the Belgæ, in a place now called 
Ringwood, 
in Hampshire, on the rivulet Avon, running down from salishury, and about ten miles or more distant from the sea. 
REGRATOR, signifies him who buys and sells any wares or victuals in the 
same 
market or fair : and regra tors are particularly described to be those who buy, or get into their hands, in fairs or markets, any grain, fish, butter, cheese, sheep, lambs, calves, swine, pigs, geese, capons, hens, chickens, pigeons, conies, or other dead victuals whatsoever, brought to a fair or market to be sold there, and do sell the same again in the same fair, market, or place, or in some other within four miles thereof. 
Regrating is a kind of 
huckftry, 
by which victuals are made dearer; for every seller will gain something, which must of consequence enhance the price. And, in ancient times, both the engroffer and regrator were comprehended under the word 
forefaller. 
Regrators are punishable by loss and forfeiture of goods, and imprisonment, according to the sirst, second, or third offence, c. 
regensberg, a handsome, though small town of swisserland, in the canton of Zurich, and capital of a bailiwick of the same name, with a ssrong castle; seat cd on a hill, which is part of Mount Jura. There is a well sunk through a rock, 36 fathoms deep. 
REGULAR, denotes anything that is agreeable 
to 
the rules of art : thus we say, a regular building, verb, ca 
regular figure, in geometry, is one whose sides, and consequently angles, are equal; and a regular figure with three or four sides is commonly termed an 
equilateral triangle 
or 
square, 
as all others with more sides are called 
regular polygons. 
Regular, in a monastery, a person who has taken the vows; because he is bound to observe the rules of the order he has embraced. 
REGULATION, a rule or order prescribed by a superior, for the proper management of some affair. 
REGULATOR 
of a 
watch, the small spring belonging to the balance; serving to adjust its motions, and make it go faster or flower. see watch. 
REGULBIUM, or Regulvium, (Notitia imperii;; nowhere else more early: a town of 
the 
Cantii, in Britain, Novi’ Reculver, a village 
on the 
coast, near the issand Thanet, towards the Thames, 
to 
thc north of Canterbury, (Camden). 
regulus (M. Attilius), a consul during the sirst Punic war. He reduced Brundusmm, and in his second consulship he took 64 and sunk 30 galleys of the carthaginian fleet, on the coasts of sicily Afterwards he landed in Africa 5 and fo rapid was his success, that in a short time he made himself master of about 200 places of consequence on the coast. The Carthaginians sued for peace, but the conqueror refused to grant it; and soon after he was defeated in a battle by Xanthippus, and 30, 000 of his men were left on the field of battle, and 15, 000 taken prisoners. Regulus was in the number of the captives, and he was carried in tri umph to Carthage. He was sent by the enemy to Rome, to propose an accommodation and an exchange of prisoners; and if his commission was unsuccessful, he was bound by the most solemn oaths to return to car thage without delay, when he came to Rome, Regulus dissuaded his countrymen from accepting the terms which the enemy proposed; and when his opi nion had had due influence on the senate, Regulus reti red to Carthage agreeable to his engagements. Thç Carthaginians were told that their offers of peace had been rejected at Rome by the means of Regulus; and therefore they prepared to puilish him with the greatest severity. His eyebrows were cut, and he was exposed’ for some days to the excessive heat of the meridian sun, and afterwards confined in a barrel, whose sides were everywhere filled with large iron spikes, till he died in the greatest agonies. His sufferings were heard of at Rome; and the senate permitted his widow to inflict whatever punishment file pleased on some of the most iliustrious captives of Carthage which were in their hands. she confined them also in presses filled with sharp iron points; and was so exquisite in her cruelty, ' that the senate interfered, and stopped the barbarity of her punishment. Regulus died about 251 years before Christ. — Memmius, a Roman, made governor of Greece by Caligula, while Regulus was in his province, the emperor wished to bring thç celebrated statue of Jupiter Olympius by Phidias to Rome, but this was supernatu rally prevented; and according to ancient authors, the ship which was to convey it was destroyed by lightning, and the workmen who attempted to remove the statue 
were terrified away by sudden noises__a man who 
condemned sejanus. — Roscius, a man who held the consulship but for one day, in the reign of Vitellius. 
Regulus, in cliemistry, an imperfect metallic sub shance that falls to the bottom of the crucible, in thc melting of ores or impure metallic substances. It 
is 
the sinest or purest part of the metal j and, according, to the alchemists, is denominated 
regulus, 
or 
little king, 
as being the siist born of the royal metallic blood. ac cording to them, it is really a son, but not a perfect man; z. 
e. 
not yet a perfect metal, for want of time and proper nourishment. To procure the regulus 
ογ 
mercurial parts of metals, c. flux powders are commonly used; as nitre, tartar, c. which purge the sul phureous part adhering to the metal, by attracting and absorbing it to themselves. 
Regulus of Antimony. 
see Chemistry,. n 1252 — 1257; and see 
Index 
there, at 
Antimony. 
Regulus 
of Arsenic. 
see Chemistry, n 1267, c and 1285 — 1294. The ancient process for making re 
