If 
a plaint in replevin b.c. removed 'mto the court of king’s bench, c. and the plaintiff makes default and becomes non suit, or judgement is given against him, the defendant in replevin shall have the writ of 
retorno habendo 
of the goods taken in distress. sec the 
next article 
REPLEVY, in law, is a tenant’s bringing a writ of replevin, or 
replegiari facias, 
where his goods are taken by distress for rent; which must be done within five days after the distress, otherwise at the five days end they are to be appraised and sold. 
This word is also used for bailing a person, as in the case of a 
h 'mine replegiando. 
REPORT, the relation made upon oath, by officers or persons appointed to visit, examine, or estimate the state, expenses, cof anything. 
Report, in law, is a public relation of cases judi cially argued, debated, resolved, or adjudged in any of the king’s courts of justice, with the causes and reasons of the same, as delivered by the judges. Also when the court of chancery, or any other court, refers the Rating of a case, or tyre comparing of an account, to a mailer of chancery, or other referee, his certificate thereon is called a 
report. 
repose, in poetry, c. the same with rest and pause. see Rest, c. 
Repose, in painting, certain masses or large assemblages of light and shade, which being well conducted, prevent the confusion of objects and figures, by engaging and fixing the eye so as it cannot attend to the other parts of the painting for some time; and thus leading it to consider the several groups gradually, pro ceeding as it were from stage to stage. 
representation, in the drama, the exhibi tion of a theatrical piece, together with the scenes, machinery, c. 
representative, one who perforates or sup plies the place of another, and is inverted with his right and authority. Thus the house of commons are the representatives of the people in parliament. see Commons and Parliament. 
REPRIEVE, in criminal law (from 
reprendre, 
"to 
take back”), is the withdrawing of a sentence for an interval of time; whereby the execution is suspended. see Judgement. 
This may be, sirst, 
ex arbitrio judicis, either 
before or after judgement : as, where the judge is not satisfied with the verdict, or the evidence is fuspicious, or the indictment is insufficient, or he is doubtful whether the offence be within clergy; or sometimes if it be a small felony, or any favourable circumstances appear in the criminal’s character, in order to give room to apply to the crown for either an absolute or conditional pardon. These arbitrary reprieves may be granted or taken off by the justices of gaol delivery, although their session be sinished, and their commission expired : but this ra there by common usage than of strict right. 
Reprieves may also be 
ex necofftate legis : 
as where a woman 
is 
capitally convjcted, and pleads her pregnancy. Though this is no cause to stay judgement, yet it is to respite the execution till she be delivered. This is a mercy dictated by the law of nature, 
in favorem prolis; 
and therefore no paît of the bloody proceedings in the reign of Queen Mary hath been more justly detest ed, 
than the 
cruelty 
that 
was 
exercised in the issand of 
Guernsey, of burning a woman big with child j and, when through the violence of the flames the infant sprang forth at the stake, and was preserved by the by standers, after some deliberatlons of the priests who as sisted at the sacrifice, they cast it into the fire as a young heretic. A barbarity which they newer learned from the laws of ancient Rome; which direct, with the same humanity as our own, 
quod prœgnantis mulieris damnata pana differatur, quoad pariat : 
which doctrine, has also prevailed in England, as early as the first memorials of our law will reach. In case this plea be made in stay of execution, the judge must direct a jury of twelve matrons or disereet women to inquire into the fact : and if they bring in their verdict 
quick with child 
(sor barely 
with child, 
unless it b.c. alive in the womb, is not suf sicient), execution shall be staid generally till the next session; and fo from session to session, till either she is delivered, or proves by the course of nature not to have been with child at all. But if file once hath had the benefit of this reprieve, and been delivered, and afterwards becomes pregnant agam, she shali not be entitled to the benefit of a farther respite for that cause. For; she may now be executed; before the child is quick in the womb; and shall not, by her own incontinence, evade the sentence of justice. 
Another cause of regular reprieve is, if the offender become 
non compos 
between the judgement and the award of execution : for regularly, though a man be 
compos 
when he commits a capital crime, yet if lie becomes 
non Compos 
after, lie shall not be indicted if after indictment, he shall not be convicted; if after conviction,, be silall not receive judgement; if after judgement, he shall not be ordered for execution : for 
furiofus solo furore punitur; 
and the law knows not but he might have offered some reason, if in bis senses, to have stayed these. respectivc proceedings. It is therefore an invariable, rule, when any time intervenes between the attainder and the award of execution, to demand of the prisoner what he hath to allege why execution should not be awarded against him; and, if he appears to be insane,, the judge in his discretion may and ought to reprieve, him. Or, the party may plead in bar of execution; •which plea may be either pregnancy, the king’s pardon, an act of grace, or diversity of persuu, 
viz. 
that he is not the same that was attainted, and the like. In this last case a jury shall be impanelled to try this collateral issue, namely, the identity of his person; and not. whether guilty or innocent, sor that has been decided before. And in tllese collateral issues the trial slrall be 
infanter; 
and no time allowed the prisoner to make his. defence or produce his witnesses, unless he will make oath that he is not the person attainted : neither shall any peremptory challenges of the jury be allowed the prisoner, though formerly such challenges were held to, be allowable whenever a man’s life was in question. If neither pregnancy, insanity, non identity, nor other plea,, will avail to avoid the judgement, and stay the execution, consequent thereupon, the last and surest resort is in the king’s most gracious pardon; the granting of which is? the most amiable prerogative of the crown. sec the article Pardon. 
reprisals, a right which, princes claim of taking from their enemies anything equivalent to what, they unjustly detain from them or their subjects. For 
as the delay of 
making 
war 
may sometimes be detri - 
