viouily scooped out for this purpose; and 
it is 
not very likely that 
so 
feeble a bill could be very scrviceable in working upon such hard materials. 
Be this as it will, there is no bird secures its young better from external injury than the toucan, it has not only birds, men, and serpents, to guard against; but a numerous tribe of monkeys, still more prying, mischievous, and hungry, than all the rest. The toucan, however, sceops out its nest into the hollow of some tree, leaving only a hole large enough to go in and out at. There it sits, with its great beak, guarding the entrance; and if the monkey ventures to offer 
a 
visit of curiosity, the toucan gives him such a well come, that he presently thinks proper to pack off, and is glad to escape with safety. 
This bird is only found in the warm climates of south America, where it is in great request, both for the de licacy of its flesh, which is tender and nourishing, and for the beauty of its plumage, particularly the sea thers of the breast. The skin of this part the Indians pluck off, and when dry glue to their cheeks; and this they consider as an irresistible addition to their beauty. 
rhapis, in botany : A genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the alexandria class of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the sirst order, 
Palma. 
The calyx is a monophylious trisid spatha; the corolla monopetalous and trisid. There are two species, 
viz. 
i. Flabilliformis, or ground ratan, a native cf China; 2. Arundinacea, simple leaved rhapis, a native of Carolina. 
rhapsodi, Rhapsodjsts, in antiquity, persons wlio made a business of singing pieces of homer’s poems. Cuper informs us, that the Rhapfodi were clothed in red when they sung the Iliad, and in blue when they sung the Odyssey.. They performed on the theatres, and sometimes strove for prizes in. contests of poetry, singing, cafter the two antagonists liad sinished their parts, the two pieces or papers they were written in were joined together again : whence the name, 
viz. 
from 
ofuo, 
and 
canticum : 
but there 
seem to have been other Rhapsodi of more antiquity than .these people, who composed heroic poems or songs in praise of heroes and great men, and sung their own compositions srom town to town sora livelihood; of which profession Homer himsels is said to have been. see Bard. 
rhapsodomancy, an ancient kind of divina tion performed by pitching on a passage of a poet at hazard, and reckoning on it as a prediction of what was. to come to pass. There were various ways of practising this rhapsodomaney. sometimes they wrote several papers or sentences of a poet on so many pieces of wood, paper, or the like, shcok them together in an urn, and drew out one which was accounted the lot sometimes they cast dice on a table whereon verses were written, and that whereon the die lodged contained the prediction A third manner was by opening a book, and pitching on some verse at sirst sight. This me thûd they particularly called the 
fortes Praneflime; 
aud afterwards, according to the poet, made use of, 
fortes Homeric, fortes Vtrgdiana, 
c. see sorts. 
rhapsody, in antiquity, a discourse in verse sang or rehearsed by a rhapsodist. Others will have 
rhapsody to 
signify a 
collection of yerses, especially 
those of Homer, which having been 
a 
long time 
dispersed 
in pieces and fragments, were at length by 
Pi 
sistratus’s order digested into books called 
rhapfodtes, 
srom 
fuo, 
and 
canticum. 
Hence, among moderns, 

rhapsody 
is also used sor an assemblage of passa ges, thoughts, and authorities, raked together srom diverse authors, to compose some new piece. 
RHE, or Ree, a little issand in the Bay of Biscay, near the coast of Aunis in France. It was taken during the war with France which ended in 1763, in the expedition commanded by Hawk and Mordaunt. 
RHEA amerlcana. The American ostrsch of authors has been frequently mentioned, but till of late years very imperfectly known; being blended by some with other genera, although forming of itsels a distinct one, differing in many things from all others. The older writers, however, have kept it separate. It does not occur to us whether any author has figured this bird except 
Nieremberg, 
whose representation conveys no just idea, which is wonderful, as it is to be met with iu sufficient plenty in various parts of south America; nor has the bird itsels made its appearance in the cabi nets of coliectors, until the one now in the Leverian museum. 
M. Bajon, in his 
Mem. fur Cayenne, 
gives a sigure and description of the jabirus, and seems clear that this bird is no other than the ostrich of Amenca. From this assertion, Mr Latham, in his 
synopßs, 
leaves the matter undecided; but this author, in his 
Index qmi thol. 
srom having met with the specimen above alluded to, and supported in an account of its manners given by Molina in his 
Hssl. Nat. da Chilli, 
treats this matter on more certain grounds, so as to enable us to give the following description. 
In size the American ostrich is very little inferior to the common one : the bill is Hoped not unlike that of a goose, being flat on the top and rounded at the end r the eyes are black, and the lids furnished with hairs : the head is rounded, and covered with downy feathers : the neck is two feet eight inches long, and feathered also : from the tip of one wing to that of the other extended, the length is eight feet; but from the want of continuity of the webs of the feathers, and their laxity of texture, the bird is unable to raise itself from the ground \ it is, however, capable of greatly affistiug itself by their motion in running, which it does very swiftly : the legs are stout, hare of feathers above the knees, and surnished with three toes, all placed forwards, each having a straight and stout claw as in the cassowary; on the heel is a callous knob, serving in place of a back, toe : the general colour of plumage is dull grey mixed with white, inclining to the latter on the under parts : the tail is very short, and not conspicuous, being entirely covered with long loose and floating feathers, having origin from the lower part of the hack and rump, and entirely covering it : the bill and legs are brown. 
Molina observes that this bird varies; the body in some being white, in others black. In respect to manners, it is said.to be a general feeder, but more sond of flies, which it catches with great dexterity, and will also, like the common ostrich, swallow bits of iron and any other trash offered to it. In common with the ostrich of the old world, it lays a number of eggs, from. ' 40 to 60, in the fand, cacti of them holding a quart; 
