strument thus fitted on the dividing wheel may be moved to any angle by the screw and divided circle on its arbour, and that this angle may be marked on the limb of the instrument with the greatest exactncss by the dividing point or tracer, which can only move in ή direct line tending to the centre, and is altogether freed from those inconveniences that attend cutting by means of a straight edge. This method of drawing lines will also prevent any error that might arise from an expansion or contraction of the metal during the time of dividing, 
. " The screw frame is fixed on the top of a conical pillar, which turns freely round its axis, and also moves freely towards or from the centre of the wheel, so that the screw frame may be entirely guided by the frame which connects it with the centre : by this means · any excentricity of the wheel and the arbour would not produce any error in the dividing; and, by a particular contrivance (which will be described hereafter), the screw when pressed against the teeth of the wheel always moves parallel to itself; so that a line joining the centre of the arbour and the tracer continued, will always make equal angles with the screw. 
"Figure I. represents a perspective view of the engine“ 
“2. is a plan, of which fig. 3. represents a sec tion on the line ΠΛ » 
"The large wheel A is 45 inches in diameter, and has ten radii, each being snpported by edge bars, as represented in sig. 3· Fhese bars and radn are con nected by the circular ring B, 24 inches in diameter and 3 deep; and, for greater strength, the whole is cast in one piece in bell metal. 
“As the whole weight of the wheel A rests on its ring B, the edge bars are deepest where they join it; and from thence their depth diminishes, both towards the centre and the circumference, as represented in fig. 3. 
“The sursace of the wheel A was worked very even and flat, and its circumference turned true. The ring C of fine brass, was fitted very exactly on the circumference of the wheel; and was fastened thereon with screws, which, after being screwed as tight as possible, were well riveted. The face of a large chuck being turned very true and flat in the lath, the flattened surface A of the wheel was fastened against it with hold fasts; and the two surfaces and circumference of the ring C a hole through the centre and the plane part round (b) it, and the lower edge of the ring B, were turned at the same time. 
“D is a piece of hard bell metal, having the hole, which receives the steel arbour (d), made very straight and true. This bell metal was turned very true on an arbour; and the face, which rests on the wheel at (b), was turned very flat, fo that the steel arbour 
CL 
might stand perpendicular to the plane of the wheel : this bell metal was sastened to the wheel by six steel screws (1). 
"A brass socket Z is sastened on the centre of the mahogany stand, and receives the lower part of the beli metai piece D, being made to touch the bell metal in a narrow part near the mouth, to prevent any obliquity of the wheel from bending the arbour : good sitting is by no means neceffajy. here; since any 
shake 
in this socket will produce no bad effect, as will appear hereafter when 
we 
describe the cutting frame. 
“The wheel was then put on its stand, the lower edge of the ring B retting on the circumference of three conical friction pulleys W, to facilitate its motion round its centre. The axis of one of these pulleys is in a line joining the centre of the wheel and the middle of the endless screw, and the other two placed so as to be at equal distances from each other. 
"F is a block of wood strongly fastened to one of the legs of the stand; the piece (g) is screwed to the upper side of the block, and has half holes, in which the tranfverse axis (h) turns : the half holes are kept toge there by the screws (i). 
"The lower extremity of the conical pillar P termi nates in a cylindrical steel·pin (k), which passes through and turns in the transverse axis (h), and is confined by a cheek and screw. 
"To the upper end of the conical pillar is fastened the frame G, in which the endless screw turns : the pivots of the screw are formed in the manner of two frustums of cones joined by a cylinder, as represented at X These pivots are confined between half poles, which press only on the conical parts, and do not touch the cylindric parts ί the half holes are kept together by screws (a), which may be tightened at any time, to prevent the screw from shaking in the frame. 
“On the fcrew arbour is a small wheel of brass K, having its outside edge divided into 60 parts, and numbered at every 6th division with 1, 2, c. to 10. I he motion of this wheel is shown by the index (y) on the screw frame G. 
“H represents a part of the stand, having a parallel slit in the direction towards the centre of the wheel, large enough to receive the upper part of the conical brass pillar P, which carries the screw and its frame : and as the resistance, when the wheel is moved by the endless screw, is against that side of the slit H which is towards the left hand, that side of the slit is faced with brass, and the pillar is pressed against it by a steel spring on the opposite side i by this means the pillar is strongly supported laterally, and yet the screw may be easily pressed from or against the circumference of the wheel, and the pillar will turn freely on its axis to take any direction given it by the frame L 
“At each corner of the piece I are screws (n) of tempered steel, having polished conical points : two of them turn in conical holes in the screw frame near (o), and the points of the othçr two screws turn in holes in the piece Qu the screws (p) are of steel, which being tightened, prevent the conical pointed serews from unturning when the frame is moved. 
“L is a brass frame, which serves to connect the end less screw, its frame, c. with the centre of the wheel : each arm of this frame is terminated by a steel screw, that may be passed through any of the holes (q) in the piece Q, as the thsckness of work to be divided on the wheel may require, and are fastened by the singer nuts (r). 
"At the other end of this frame is a flat piece of tempered steel (b), wherein is an angular notch : when the endless screw is pressed against the teeth on the circumference of the wheel, which may be done by turning the singer screw s, to press against the spring (t), 
