oss the menstmum, the extract left from the tincture of the East-india rhubarb proved considerably the ftrongest. 
Rhubarb has been cultivated of late in this country with considerable success, and for medical purposes is sound to equal that of foreign growth, as is proved hythe Transactions of the London society for encoura ging Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce, who have re warded several persons both for cultivating and curing it. In the Transactions sor 1792, the gold medal was adjudged to sir william Fordyce, for raising from seed in the year 1791 upwards of 300 plants of the true rhubarb, or rheum palmatum of the London Pharmacopoeia 1788, which in the second and third weeks of October were transplanted into a deep loam, at four seet distance from each other, according to rules laid down by the society. In 1793 it was adjudged to Mr Thomas Jones, from whose papers we derive the follow ing information. 
After giving an accurate account of his experiments and observations, he concludes, that the season sor sowing is the spring about March or April, or in autumn about August and september; that those plants which are raised in the spring should be transplanted in autumn, and 
vice versa; 
that they cannot have too much room; that room and time are essentially necessary to their be ing large, off a good appearance, and perhaps to the increase of their purgative qualities; that to effect these purposes, the soil must be light, loamy, and rich, but not too much so, lest the roots should be too fibrous; that their situation can scarcely be too dry, as more ' evils are to be expected from a superabundancy of moisture than any actual want of it : and lastly, we may conclude, that in particular the injuries which they are subject to are principally during their insancy, and. to be imputed to insects and inattention to the planting season; afterwards, from too great an exposure to frost : but that none can be dreaded from heat; and that in general they are hardy and easy of cultivation, when arrived beyond a certain term. 
The method of curing rhubarb, as proposed by 
Dr 
Tirruogel of stockholm, is as follows: " No roots should be taken up till they have been planted ten years : they should be taken out of the ground either in winter, before the frost sets in, or in the beginning of spring, and immediately cut into pieces, and carefully barked; let them be spread upon a table sor three or four days, and be frequently turned, that the juices may thicken or condense within the roots. After this process, make a hole in each piece, and put a thread through it; by which let them hang separately, either within doors, or in some shelterest shady shed. some persons dry them in a different way : they enclose the roots in clay, and make a hole in the clay, about the thickness of a goosequill, and in this manner bang up each piece to dry separately, that the moisture may not evaporate, nor the strength of the root be weakened. But the methods which the Tartars follow is a bad one : they dig the roots out of the deserts where they grow, bark them, and immediately string them, and hang them round the necks of their camels, that they may dry as they travel; but this greatly lessens the medicinal virtue of the root.” 
Mr 
Thomas Halley of Pontefract in Yorkshire, to whom the London society voted the silver medal in 
1793, insorms us, that his father tried various 
experiments 
for curing rhubarb, as washing, brushing, bark ing, and peeling, and he dried them in the sun, on 
a 
kiln, in a stove, or in a warm kitchen. But of the success of all or either of these methods we have no ac count, owing to the death of Mr halley’s father. He sent, however, to them sive different specimens, which the society acknowledges to be supersor to any rhubarb hitherto cured in England, and produced to them. The roots sent, Mr Halley says, were planted about the year 1781 in a light sandyish soil, but were much neglected. They were taken up in the spring of 1792, and being thoroughly divested of the adhering earth, were placed for some weeks on the floor of a cool warehouse: : sibres were then taken off, cut up, and dried on the flue of a green llouse; but, from mismanage ment, were entirely spoiled. The prime roots were severed in small pieces, peeled clean, and thoroughly cleared of every particle of unsoundness. Part was separately laid in lieves, and the remainder perforated, strung, and suspended in sestoons from the ceiling of 
a 
warm kitchen. The manner of dressing conflits in pa ring off the external coat with a sharp knife, as thin and clean as possible, and then sinishing it off by a piece of sish skin, with its own powder;; powder may be procured from the chips and small pieces, either by grinding or pounding it in a large mortar. 
In the year 1794 the society adjudged the gold medal to Mr william Hayward of Hanbury, oxford shire, for propagating rhubarb by offsets taken from the crowns of large plants, instead of seeds, for the purpose of bringing it to perfection in a shorter time, which fully answered his expectations. Mr Hayward was 
a 
candidate in the year 1789 for the gold medal; but having misunderstood their rules, he was not entitled to it, though with great propriety they voted to him the silver medal; in consequence of which he sent them his method of culture and cure. His method of cultiva ting Turkey rhubarb from seed is thus explained to the society : “I have usually sown the seed about the beginning of February, on a bed of good soil (if rather sandy the better), exposed to an east or west aspect, in preference to the south; observing a full sun to be prejudicial to the vegetation of the seeds, and to the plants whilst young. The seeds are best sown moderately thick (broashcast), treading them regularly in, as ia usual with parsueps and other light seeds, and then ra king the ground smooth. I have sometimes, when the season has been wet, made a bed for sowing the rhu barb seeds upon, about two seet thick, with new dung from · the stable, covering it near one foot thick with good soil. The intent of this bed is not for the sake of warmth, but solely to prevent the rising of earthworms, which, in a moist season, will frequently destroy the young ciop. If the seed is good, the plants often rise too thick; if so, when they have attained six leaves they should be taken carefully up (where too close), leaving the standing crop eight or ten inches apart : those taken up may be planted at the same distance, in a fresh spot of ground, in order to surnish other plantations. when the plants in general are grown to the size that cabbage plants are usually set out for a standing crop, they are best planted where they are to remain, in beds four feet wide, one row along the middle of the bed, leaving two yards distance betwixt the 
