ries , sestorms. Foliages, and other ornaments offrisses, demi·relievo"is when one half of the figure rises from the plane, when, in a baffo relievo, there are parts that stand clear out, detached srom the rest, the work is called a 
demi bnjfb. 
In architecture, the relievo or projecture of the orna ments ought always to be proportioned to the magnitude of the building it adorns, and to the distance at which it is to be viewed. 
Relievo, or 
Relief, 
in painting, is the degree of boldness with which the figures seem, at a due distance, to stand out from the ground of the painting. 
The relievo depends much upon the depth of the shadow, and the strength of the light; or on the height of the different colours, bordering on one another; and particularly on thc difference of the colour of the figure from that of the ground : thus, when the light is fo disposed as to make the nearest paits of the figure advance, and is well d; ffused on the masses, yet insensibly diminishing, and terminating in a large spacious shadow, brought off insenfibly, the relievo is said to be bold, and the clair obscure well under stood. 
RELIGION (rp.llglo), is a Latin word derived, according to Cicero, from 
rc/egere, 
“to re confiders’but according to servius and most modern grammarians, from 
religare, ίί 
to bind sast. ' lhe reason assigned by the Roman orator for deducing 
religio 
from 
relego, 
is in these words, " qui autem omnia, quæ ad cultum deo lum pertinerent, diligenter retracterent, et tanquam relegerent, sunt dicti 
rehgiofi 
ex relegendo.” The reason given by servms for his derivation of the word is, “quod mentem religio religet.” lf the Ciceronian etymology be the true one, the word 
religion 
will denote the diligent study of whatever pertains to the worship of the’gods; but according to the other derivation, which we are inclined to prefer, it denotes that obligation which we feel on our minds from the relation in which we stand to feme superior power. In either cafe, the import of the word 
religion 
is different from that of 
theology, 
as the former lignifies a number of practical duties, and the latter a system of speculative truths. 
Theology 
is therefore the foundation of 
religion, 
or the science from which it springs; for no man can study what pertains to the worship of superior powers Jill he believe that .such powers exist, or feel any obligation on his mind from a relation of which he knows nothing. 
This idea f religion, as distinguished from theo logy, comprehends the duties not only of those more re fined and complicated systems of theism or polytheism which have prevailed among civilised and enlightened nations, such as the polytheism of the Greeks and Romans, and the theism of the Jews, the Muslims, and the Christians; it comprehends every sentiment of obligation which human beings have ever conceived themselves under to superior powers, as well as all the forms of worship which have ever been practised through the world, however santastic, immoral, or absurd. 
when we turn our eyes to this feature of the human character, we find it peculiarly interesting. Mankind are distinguished from the brutal tribes, and elevated to an higher rank, by the rational and moral faculties with which they are endowed; but they are still more widely 
distinguished from the inferior creation, and more high 
ly exalted above them, by being made capable of religious notions and religious sentiments. The ssightest knowledge of history is sufficient to inform us, that religion has ever had a powerful influence in moulding the sentiments and manners of men. It has sometimes dignified, and sometimes degraded, the human character. In one region or age it has been favourable to ci vilization and refinement; in another, it has occasionally cramped the genius, depraved the morals, and deform ed the manners of men. The varieties of religion are innumerable; and the members of every distinct sect must view all who differ from them as more or less mistaken with respect to the most important concerns of man. Religion seems to be congenial to the heart of man; for wherever human society subfists, there we are certain of finding religious opinions and sentiments. 
It must, therefore, be an important subject of specu lation to the man and the philosopher to consider the origin of religion; to inquire, Flow far religion in general has a tendency to promote or to inju e the order and happiness of society? and, above all, to examine, what particular religion is best calculated to produce an happy influence on human life? 
We shall endeavour to give a satissactory answer to each of these queslions, reserving to the article Theology the consideration of the dogmas of that particular religion which, from our present inquiries, shall appear to be true, and to have the happiest influence on human life and manners. 
I. The foundation of all religion rests on the belief of the existenoe of one or more superior beings, who govern the world, and upon whom the happiness or mi sery of mankind ultimately depends. Of this belief, as it may be said to have been universal, there seem to be but three sources that can be conceived. Either the image of Deity must be stamped on the mind of every human being, the savage as well as the sage; or the founders of societies, and other eminent persons, tracing by the efforts of their own reason visible effects to invisible causes, must have discovered the existence of superior powers, and communicated the discovery to their associates and followers;; lastly, the universal belief in such powers must have been derived by tradition from a primaeval re velation, communicated to the progenitors of the hu man race. 
One or other of these hypotheses must be true, because a fourth cannot be framed. But we have else where (Polytheism, n 2.) examined the reasoning which has been employed to establish the first, and shown that it proceeds upon salse notions of human nature, we should likewise pronounce it contrary to fact, could we believe, on the authority of some of its patrons, who are not ashamed to contradict one another, that the Kamtschatkans, and other tribes, in the lowest state of reasoning and morals, have no ideas whatever of Deity. we proceed, therefore, to confider the second hypothesis, which is much more plausible, and will bear 
a 
stricter scrutiny. 
That the existence and many of the attributes of the Deity are capable of rigid demonstration, is a truth which cannot be controverted either by the philosopher or the Christian; for " the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being under slood by the things that are made, even His eternal power and Godhsad, ” (fee 
Metaphysics, 
Part III 
