The difference 
between raisins dried 
in 
the fun 
and 
those dried in ovens, is very obvious : the former are sweat and pleasant, but the latter have a latent acidity with the sweetness that renders them much lesa agreeable. 
The cpmmon way of drying grapes for raisins, is to tie two or three bunches of them together while yet on the vine, and dip them into a hot lixivium of wood ashes, with a little of the oil of olives in it. This dif poses them to shrink and wrinkle; and after this they are left on the vine three or four days separated on sticks in an horizontal iituation, and then dried in the sun at leisure, after being cut from the tree. The sinest and belt raisins are those called in some places 
damas tus 
and 
Tube raisins;; 
are distmguished from the others by their size and figure : they are flat and wrinkled on the surface, sost and juicy within, and near an inch long; and, when fresh and growing on the bunch, are of the size and shape of 
a 
large olive. 
The raisins of the sun, and jar raisins, are all dried by the heat of the sun; and these are the forts used in medicine. However, all the kinds have much the same virtues : they are all nutritive and balsamic;; are allowed to be attenuant, are said to be good in nephritic complaints, and are an ingredient in pectoral decoctions: : which cafes, as also in all others where astrin gency is not required of them, they should have the stones carefuliy taken owt. 
rai$in wine. 
8ee WINE. 
RAKKATH (anc. geog.), 
a 
town of 
Upper 
Galilee, thought to be Tiberias, (Talmud) : but this is denied by Reland, who says that Rakkath was a town of the tribe of Naphthali. 
RAKE is a well known instrument with teeth, by which the ground is divided. see Agriculture, 
p. 
318. 
Rake also means a loose, disorderly, vicious, and thoughtless fellow. 
rake of a ship, 
is all that part of her hull which hangs over both ends of her keel. That which is be sore is called the 
fore rake, 
or 
rake forward, 
and that part which is at the setting on of the stern-post is called the 
rake aft, 
or 
afterward. 
RALEIGH (sir walter), fourth fon of walter Raleigh, Esq; of Fardel, in the parish of Cornwood in Devonshire, was born in 1552 at Hayes, in the parish of Budley, a farm belonging to his father. About the year 1568, he was sent to Oriel college in Oxford, where he continued but a short time; for in the following year he embarked for France, being one of the hundred volunteers, commanded by Henry champer non, who, with other English troops, were sent by queen Elisabeth to assist the queen of Navarre in defending the Protestants. In this service he continued for five or six years; after which he returned to lon <don, and probably resided in the Middle Temple. But his entcrprising genius would not suffer him to remain long in a state of inactivity In 1577 or 1578, he embarked for the Low Countries with the troops sent. by the queen to assist the Dutch against the spaniards, and probably shared the glory of the decisive victory over Don John of Austria in 1578. On his return to England, a new enterprise engaged his attention. His half brother, sir Humphrey Gilbert, having obtained a patent to plant and inhabit some parts of North 
America, 
Mr Raleigh embarked in this adventure; but, meeting with a spanish fleet, after a sraart engagement they returned, without success, in 1579. 
The following year, the king of spain, 
in 
conjunc tion with the pope, having projected a total couqnest of the English dominions, sent troops to Ireland to as sist the Desmonds in the Munster rebellion. Raleigh obtained a captain’s commission under Lord Grey of wilton, then deputy of Ireland, and embarked for that kingdom; where, by his conduct and resolution, he was principally instrumental in putting an end to the rebellious attempt. He returned to England; and attract ed the notice of queen Elisabeth, owing, as we are told in naunton’s 
Fragmenta Regalia, 
to the following accidental piece of gallantry. The queen, as she was one day taking a walk, being stopped by a 
pbofhy 
place in the road, our gallant young soldier took off his new plush mantle, and spread it on the ground. Her majesty trod gently over the fair foot cloth, snrprised and pleased with the adventure. He was a handsome man, and remarkable for his gentility of address. 
The queen admitted him to her court, and employed him sirst as an attendant on the French ambassador si mier on his return home, and afterward to cscort the duke of Anjou to Antwerp. During this excursion he became personally known to the prince of Orange; from whom, at his return, he brought special acknowledgments to the queen, who now frequently conversed with him. But the inactive life of a courtier did not fuit the enterprising spirit of Mr Raleigh In the year 1583, he embarked with his brother, sir Humphrey Gilbert, on a second expedition to Newfoundland, in a ship called the 
Rajeigh, 
which he built at his own expense;; was obliged to return on account of an in fectious distemper on board. He was, however, so little affected by this disappointment, that he now laid before the queen and council a proposal for exploring the continent of North America; and in 1584 obtained 
a 
patent empowering him to possess such countries as he should diseover in that part of the globe. Accordingly Mr Raleigh fitted out two ships at his own expense, which sailed ip the month of April, and returned to England about the middle 
of 
september, reporting that they had discovered and taken possession of a fine country called 
Windangocoa, 
to which the queen gave the name of 
Virginia. 
About this time he was elected knight of the shire for the county of Devon, and soon after received the honour of knighthood; and to enable him t carry on his designs abroad, the queen granted him a patent for licensing the venders of wine throughout the kingdom. In 1, 85 he sent a fleet of seven ships to Virginia, commanded by his relation sir Richard Greenville, who left a colony at Roanah of 107 persons, under the government of Mr Lane; and by the establishmentof this colony he first imported tobacco into England. see Nicotiana. In the same year sir waiter Raleigh obtained a grant of 12, 000 acres bf the forfeited lands in the county of Cork in Ireland. — About the same time he was made seneschal of the duchy of Cornwall, and warden of the tanneries;; grew into such favour with the queen, that even lei ccster was jealous of his influence. 
In 1587, he sent another colony of 150 men to vir ginia, with a governor, Mr John white, and 12 assistants. About this time we find our knight distinguish 
