to batter down the walls of bcsieged places. see 
Baï· 
ΐbring Ram. 
RAM s Head, 
in a ship, is a great block belonging to the fore and main haulysrds. It has three shives in it, in which the haulyards are put; and in a hole at the end are reeved the ties, 
RAMADAN, a solemn season of faffing among the Muslims. see Mahometanism. 
RAMAH (anc. geog.), a town of Benjamin, near Gibea, (Judges); called 
Rama of saul 
(i sam. XXII six mfies from Jerusalem to the north; memorable for the story of the Levite and his concubine : Taken and rortified by Baasa king of Israel, in order to annoy the Kingdom of Judah. This Rama is mentioned lia. X jer. XXXI and Matth, II and is to be distinguished from 
Rama op tsamuel, 
i sam. XIX called also 
Ramatha, 
i sam. i. iy. and 
Ramathaim Z, opbnn, 
ibid. i. i. which lay a great way to the west, towards Joppa, near Lydda, 
I 
iviaccab, II the birthplace of samuel; adjoining to the mountains of Ephraim, and the place of his residence, 
I bam. 
XV c. (Josephus). Called 
Ramula 
in the lower a fse > (Gul. 1 yrius.) There is here a convent of the fa tnelsos the Holy Land, inhabited only by Portuguese, spaniards, and Italians. 
RAMATH μι'ζρε, joshuax iii.); 
Ramoth masphe, 
(septuagint, Vulgate); 
Ranwth in Gilead, 
or 
Remmoth Galaaa, 
(seventy); a town in that tract of Gilead called 
Maspha, 
or 
ivlizpe, 
one of the cities of refuge. 
RAMAZZINI (Bernardin), an Italian physician, born at Carpi near Modena in 1633. He was professor ofphysic in the universlty of Modena for 18 years; and in 1700 accepted an invitation from Padua, where he was made; rector of the college; and died in 1714. His works were collected and published in London, 1716; of which, his treatise 
De Morbis Artificum, 
"Of the peculiar maladies of artificers, ” will always be esteemed useful and curious. 
ramekins, a fortress of the United Netherlands, on the south coast of the island of whlchevin, in the province of Zeland. One of the cautionary towns given to Queen Elizabeth for the repayment of the charges she had been at for the defence of this republic in its infancy, hour miles east of Flushing; in N. Lat. $1, 34. E. Long. 4. 24. 
rameses, (anc. geog.); a town built by the if raelites during their bondage in Egypt, and from which the Exodus took place, and which must have been to walds and not far from the Arabian Gulf, feeing in the third statson the Israelites arrived on its shore. 
rameses, king of the Lower Egypt when Jacob went thither with his family, in the 1706th year before the Christian era. Ancient authors mention several other kings of Egypt of the same name; and it is thought that one of those princes erected in the temple of the fun at Thebes, the magnificent obelisk which the emperor Constantine caused to be removed to Alexandria m the year 334; and that prince dying, his son Constaptius had the obelisk tranipoited fi-om ale xan clria to Rome in 352, where it was erected in the grand Circus. Its height was 132 feet, when the Goths lacked the city of Rome in 409, they overthrew this obelisk, which continued buried in the fand till the time of slxtus V in 1587, when it was found broken in three pieces; which being joined together, it was set up in the square of st John de Lateran. On the four sides 
of 
this wonderful obebsk are a number of figures and hsa roglyphical characters, which, according to the explication of Ammianus Marcellinus, contain the praises of Rameses. 
RAMIFICATION, the production of boughs or branches, or of figures resembling branches. 
ramillies, a small village of Brabant, in the Austrian Low Countries, 12 milts north of Namur, and 22 southeast of Brussels. Lat. 50. 51. Long. 4. 48. famous tor the battle fought by the allies commanded by the duke of Marlborough and M. d’auvcr quirque, against that of the two crowns, commanded by the Duke of Bavaria and Marshal Villeroy, the 22d of May 1706. see Britain, n 357. 
I he troops destined to compute the army of the allies being joined at the camp of Borchloon the 20th of May, baited the ist. On the 2 2d the army marched from Borchloon in four columns, and posted itself the same day, with thc right towards the Mill of Quorem, extending with the left towards Blehen: from this camp was discovered the army of the two crowns, which wäs encamped with the left at Over efpen, and the right towards the wood of Chapiaraux, Heylissem in their iront, and st lrlemont m then rear. It was resolved the same day to march the next morning towards the plain of Meerdorp or Mierdau, to view, the posture of the enemies, and determme what would be the most proper means of attacking them according to the movement they should make. 1 o this end, an advanced guard of 600 horse and all the quarter mailers of the army were sent forward on the 23d at break of day. 
The same morning about four, the army marched in eight columns towards the aforesaid plain. The advan ced guard and the quartermasters arrived about eight at the height of Meerdorp or Mierdau; from whence the army of the enemy was seen in motion : a little after it was perceived that the enemy was marching through the plain of Mount st Andrew in four columns, of which information was given to the duke of mallbo rough and M. D’auverquirque, who immediately repaired to the said height; and by the time these gene rals were arrived there, the head of the enemy’s army already appeared at the tomb of Ottomont upon the causeway, near the Mehaigne : whereupon the Duke of Marlborough and M. D’auverquirque made the army advance with all expedition. 
T he enemy, as sast as they advanced, ranged in order of battle, with their right towards the tomb of Ottomont upon the Mehaigne, extending with their left to Autr’eglise; having Tranquiers in front of their right, into which they had thrown several battalions of infan try and 14 squadrons of dragoons, who had dismounted their horses to support them. They had placed many of their infantry and a considerable part of their artillery in the village of Ramillies, which fronted the right of their main body, as well as into the village of Offuz, which fronted the left of their infantry, and into the village of Autr’eglise, quite on their left. The front between the village of Ramillies and Autr’eglise was covered by a small stream of water, which rendered the meadows in some places marshes, and also by several roads covered with hedges; which difficulties prevent ed our cavalry of the right wing from coming to action. As fast as the army of the allies arrived it was ranged hr order of battle; with the left towards 
