to the direction DC of their motion, they must deflect to both sides equally, and in equal portions, because no reason can be assigned why more should go to either side. By this means the filament EF, which would have struck the surface in G, is deflected 
before it arrives at 
the snrface, and deseribes a curved path EFI HR, continuing its rectilineal motion to I, where it is inter cepted by a filament immediately adjoining to EF, on the side of the middle filament DC. The different particles of DC may be supposed to impinge in succession at C and to be deflected at right angles; and gliding along CB, to escape at B. Each filament in succession, outwards from DC, is deflected in its turn; and being hindered from even touching the sursace C B, it glides off in a direction parallel to it; and thus EF is deflected in I, moves parallel to CB from Ito H, and is again deflected at right angles, and describes H K parallel to DC. The same thing may be supposed to happen on the other side of DC. 
And thus it would appear, that except two filaments immediately adjoining to the line DC, which bisects the sursace at right angles, no part of the fluid makes any impulse on the surface AB. All the other filaments are merely pressed against it by the lateral filaments without them, which they turn aside, and prevent from striking the surface. 
In like manner, wlien the fluid strikes the edge of a prism or wedge ACB (fig. 7.), it cannot be said that any real impulse is made. Nothing hinders us from supposing C a mathematical angle or indivisible point, not fufceptibiè of any impulse, and serving merely to di vide the stream. Each filament EF is effectuasly pre vented from impinging at G in the line of its. direction, and with the obliquity of incidence EGC, by the filaments between EF and DC, which glide along the surface CA; and it may be supposed to be deflected when it comes to the line CF which bisects the angle DCA, and again deflected and rendered parallel to D C at I. The same thing happens on the other side of DC; and we cannot in this case assert that there is any impulse. 
we now see plainly how the ordinary theory must be totally unfit sor surnishing principles of naval architec ture, even although a formula could be deduced from such a series of experiments as those. of the French aca demy. Although we should know precisely the im pulse, or, to speak now more cautioussy, the action, of the fluid on a surface G L (fig.) of any obliquity, wlien it is alone, detached from all others, we cannot' in the smallest degree tell what will be the action of 
part of 
a stream of stuid advancing towards it, with the same obliquity, when it is preceded by an adjoining sur sace CG, having a different inclination; for the fluid will not glide along G L in the same manner as if it made part of a more extensive sursace having the same inclination. The previous deflexions are extremely different in these two cases; and the previous deflections are the only changes which we can observe in the motions of the fluid, and the only causes of that pressure which we observe the body to suftaiu* and which we casl the impulse on it. This theory must, therefore, be quite unfit for ascertaining the action on a curved surface, which may be considered as made up of an indesi nite number of successive planes. 
We now see with equal evidence how it happens that 
the action of fluids 
on 
solid bodies may and must 
be op 
posed by pressures, and may be compared with and mea sured by the pressure of gravity, we are not compa ring forces of different kinds percuffions with preffures^ but pressures with each other. Let us see whether this view of the subject will afford us any method ol comparison or absolute measurement. 
when a filament cf fluid, that is, a row of corpuscles, are turned out of their course EF (sig. 6.), and forced to take another course IH, force is required to produce this change of direction. The filament is prevented from proceeding by other filaments which lie between it and the body, and which deflect it in the same manner as if it were contained in a bent tube, and it will press on the concave filament next to it as it would press on the concave side of the tube. suppose such a bend ed tube ABE (sig. 9.), and that a ball A is projccted along it with any velocity, and moves in lit without fric tton : it is demonstrated, in elementary mechanics, that the ball will move with undiminished velocity, and will press on every point, such as B, of the concave side of the tube, in a direction BF perpendicular to the plane CBD, which touches the tube in the point B This pressure on the adjoining filament, on the concave side of its path, must be withstood by that filament which deflects it; and it must be propagated aerofs that Alarment to the next, and thus augment the pressure upon that next filament already pressed by the deflection of the intermediate filament and thus there is a pressure towards the middle filament, and towards the body, ari sing from the deflection of all the outer filaments; and their accumulated sum must be conceived as immediately exerted on the middle filaments and on the body, because a perfect fluid transmits every pressure undimi nished. 
The pressure BF is equivalent to the two BH, BG, one of which is perpendicular, and. the other parallel, to the direction, of the original motion. By the sirst (taken in any point of the curvilineal motion of any filament), the two halves of the stream are pressed together; and in the case of sig. 6. and 7. exactly balance each other.. But the pressures, such as BG, must be ultimately withstood by the surface ACB; and it is by these accumulated pressures that the solid body is urged down the stream; .and it is these accumulated pressures which we observe and measure in our experiments. WC shall anticipate a little, and say that ibis most easily de? monstrated, that when a ball A (sig. 9.) moves with undiminished velocity in a tube so incurvated that its axis at E is at right angles to its axis at A, the accumulated action of the pressures, such as B G, taken for every point of the path, is precisely equal to the force which would produce or extinguish the original motion. 
This being the case, it follows most obviousiy, that if the. two motions of the filaments are such as we have de scribed and represented by fig. 6. the whole pressure in the direction of the stream, that’is, the whole pressure which can be observed on the sursace, is equal to the weight of a column of fluid having the surface for its base, and twice the fall productive of the velocity for its height, pre cisely as Newtcn deduced it from other considerations; and it seems to make no odds whether the fluid be elas tic or unelastic, if the deflections and velocities are the 
same. Now 
it 
is a fact, that n différence 
in this re 
