that are weak, or in driving them ill pointed, or otherwise amiss. 
RETREAT, in a military sense. 
An army 
or body of men are said to retreat when they turn their backs upon the enemy, or are retiring from the ground they occupied : hence every march in withdrawing from the enemy is called a 
retreat. 
That which is done in sight of an active enemy, wlio pursues with a superior force, is the most important part of the subject; and is, with reason, looked upon as the Ulory of the profession. It is a manœuvre the most delicate, and the properest to display the prudence, genius, courage, and address, of an officer wlio commands: the histo rians of all ages testify it; and historians have never been so lavish of eulogiums as on the subject of the brilliant retreats of our heroes. If it is important, it is no lesa difficult to regulate, on account of the variety of circumstances, each of which demands different prin ciples, and an almost endless detail. Hence a good retreat is esteemed, by experienced officers, the masterpiece of a general. He should therefore be well ac quainted with the situation of the country _ through which he intends to make it, and careful that nothing is omitted to make it safe and honourable. see WAR. 
Retreat, is also a beat of tne drum, at the firing of the evening gun; at which the drum major, with all the drums of the battalion, except such as are upon du ty, beats from the camp colours on the right to those on the lest, on the parade of encampment : the drums of all the guards beat also; the trumpets at the same time sounding at the head of their respective troops. This is to warn the soldsers to forbear firing, and the sentinels to challenge, till the break of day that the reveille is beat. The retreat is likewise called 
setting the watch. 
RETRENCHMENT literally signifies something cutoff or taken from a thing; in which sense it is the same with subtraction, diminution, c. 
Retrenchment, in the art of war, any kind of work raised to cover a post, and fortify it against the .enemy, such as faseines loaded with earth, gambions, barrels of earth, sand bags, and generally all things that can cover the men and stop the enemy. see for tification and WAR. 
RETRIBUTION, a handsome present, gratuity, or acknowledgment, given instead of a formal salary or hire, to persons employed in affairs that do not so im mediately fall under estimation, nor within the ordinary commerce in money. 
retromingents, in natural history, a class or division of animals, whose characteristic is, that they stale or make water backwards, both male and female. 
RETURN 
(returna 
or 
retorna), 
in law, is used in diverse senses. i. Return of writs by sheriffs and bailiffs is a certificate made by them to the court, of what they have done in relation to the execution of the writ directed to them. This is wrote on the back of the writ by the officer, wlio thus sends the writ back to the court from whence it issued, in order that it may be filed. 2. Return of a commission, is a certificate or answer sent to the court from whence the commission issues, concerning what has been done by the commis sioners. 3. Returns, or days in bank, are certain days in each term, appointed for the return of writs, c. Thus Hillary term has four returns, viz. in the king’s 
bench, on the day next after the octave, or eighth day after 
Hillary day : on the day next after the fifteenth day from st Hillary; on the day after purification; and on the next after the octave of the purification. In the common pleas, in eight days of st Hillary : from the day of st Hsllary, in fifteen days : on the day after the purification : in eight days of the purification. Eaffer term has five returns, viz. in the king’s bench, on the day next after the fifteenth day from Easter : on the day next after the three weeks from Easter : on the day next after one month from Easter : on the day next after five weeks from Easter: and on the day next alter the day following aseension day. In the common pleas, in fifteen days srom the feast of Easter : in three weeks from the seast of Easter : in one month srom Easter day : in five weeks from Easter day : on the day after the aseension day. Trinity term has four re turns, viz. on the day following the second day after Trinity : on the day following the eighth‘day after Trinity : on the day next after the fifteenth day from trinity: : the day next after three weeks from Trinity. In the common pleas, on the day after Trinity : in eight days of Trinity: in fifteen days from Trinity : in three weeks from Trinity. Michaelmas term has six returns, viz. on the day next after three weeks from st Michael : on the day next after one month of st Michael: on the day following the second day after all souls : on the day next after the second day after st Martin : on the day following the octave of st Martin : on the day next after fifteen days of st Martin. In the common pleas, in three weeks from st Michael : in one month from st Michael : on the day after au souls : on the day after st Martin : on the octave of st Martin : in fifteen days from st Martin. It is to be observed, that, as in the king’s bench, all returns are to be made on some particular day of the week in each term, care must be taken not to make the writs out of that court returnable on a non judicial day; such as sunday, and all saints, in Michaelmas term, the purification in Hillary, the ascenfion in Easter, and midsummer day, except it should fall on thc first day of Trinity term. 
Returns, in a military sense, are of various sorts, but all tending to explain the state of the army, regiment, or company; namely, how many capable of doing duty, on duty, sick in quarters, barracks, infirmary, or hospital; prisoners, absent with or without leave; total effective; wanting to complete the establishment, c. 
retusari, an issand in Russia, is a long ssip of land, or rather fand, through the middle of which runs a ridge of granite. It is 20 miles from Petershurg by water, four from the shore of Ingria, and nine from the coast of Carelia. It is about 10 miles in circumference, and was overspread with firs and pines when pe ter first conquered it from the swedes. It contains at present about 30, 000 inhabitants, including the sailors and garrison, the former of whom amount to about 12, 000, the latter to 1500 men. The issand affords a small quantity of pasture, produces vegetables, and a sew fruits, such as apples, currants, gooseberries, and strawberries, which thrive in this northern climate. 
RETZ (Cardinal de). see Gondi. 
RETZIA, in botany; a genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the pentandria class of plants, and 
