to four or sive millions sterling annually; at the same time they were exempt from taxation. The crown had of late years attempted to break through this privilege. To avoid the danger, the clergy presented to the court a free gift of a sum of money somewhat short of a mil lion sterling every five years. 
The nobility was nominally the second order of the state, but it was in reality the first. The nobles amounted to no less than 200, 000 in number. The title and rank descended to all the children of the family, but the property to the eldest alone : hence vast multitudes of them were depcndent upon the bounty of the court. They regarded the useful and commercial arts as disho nourable, and even the liberal professions of the law and physic as in a great measure beneath their dignity, disdaining to intermarry with the families of their profes sors. The feudal system in its purity was extremely favourable to the production of respectable qualities in the minds of those who belonged to the order of the nobles; but the introduction of commerce has rendered its decline equally unfavourable to that class of men. Instead of the ancient patriarchal attachment between the feudal chieftain and his vassals, the nobility had be come greedy landlords in the provinces, that they mignt appear m splendour at court and in the capital. There, lost in intrigue, sensuality, and vanity, their characters became frivolous and contemptlble. such of the French noblesse, however, as remained in the provinces, regard ed with indignation this degradation of their order, and still letained a proud sense of honour and of courage, which has always rendered them respectable. The order of the nobles was exempted from the pay ment of taxes, although the property of some of them was immense. The estates of the prince of Conde, for example, were worth L 200, 000 a year, and those of the duke of Orleans nearly twice as much. The crown had indeed imposed some trifling taxes upon the noblesse, which, however, they in a great measure contrived to elude. 
Next to the nobles, and as a privileged order possesc fing a secondary kind of nobility of their own, we may mention the parliaments. These were large bodies of men, in different provinces, appointed as courts of law for the administration of justice. In consequence of the corruption of the officers of state, the members pnrcha sed their places, which they held for life; but the son was usually preferred when he offered to purchase his father’s place. In consequence of this last circumstance, the practising lawyers had little chance of ever beco ming judges. Courts thus constituted consisted of a motley mixture of old and young, learned and ignorant, men. Justice was ill administered. The judges allowed their votes in depending causes to be openly solici ted by the parties or their friends. No wise man ever entered into a litigation against a member of one of these parliaments 
5 
no lawyer would undertake to plead his cause.; it never came to a fuccesaful issue, and usu ally never came to any issue at all. After the states-general had fallen into disuse, the parliaments acquired a certain degree of political consequence, and formed the only check upon the absolute power of the crown. The laws, or royal edicts, before being put in force, were always sent to be registered in the books of the parliaments. Taking advantage of this, in favourable times and circumstances, they often delayed or refused Jo register .the royal 
edicts, 
and 
presented remonstrances 
against them. This was done under a kind of legal fiction : for they pretended that the obnoxious edict being injurious to the public happiness, could not be the will of the king, but must either be a forgery or an imposition by the ministers. These objections were got the better of, either by a positive order from the king, or by his coming in person and ordering the edict to be registered. The parliaments, however, often carried their opposition very far, even to the ruin of them selves and their families as individuals. This rendered them extremely popular with the nation, and enabled them to embarrass a weak administration. After all, however, the oppositicn of the parliaments was so feeble, that it was never thought worth while to abolish them entirely till towards the end of the reign of Louis XV but they were restored as a popular measure at the beginning of thc reign of Louis XVI 
The 
tiers etat, 
or commons, formed the lowest order of the state in France, and they were depressed and miserable in the extreme To form a conception of their situation, it is necessary to observe that they bore the whole pecuniary burdens of the state : They alone were liable to taxation. An expensive and ambitious court; an army of 200, 000 men in time of peace, and of twice that number in war; a considerable marine establishment, public roads and works, were all supported exclusively by the lowest of the people. To add to the evil, the revenues were ill collected. They were let out to farmers general at a certain sum, over and above which they not only acquired immense fortunes to them selves, but were enabled to advance enormous presents to those favourites or mistresses of the king or the mi nister, by means of whom they procured their places. To raise all this money from the people, they were guilty of the cruellest oppression, having it in their power to obtain whatever revenue laws they pleased, and executing them in the feverest manner. For this last purpose they kept in pay an army of clerks, subalterns, scouts, and spies, amounting to 80, 000 men. These men were indeed detested by the king, whom they deceived and kept in poverty; by the people, whom they oppressed;; by the ancient nobility, as purse proud upstarts. But the court of France could never contrive 
to manage without them. The peasants could be call ed out by the intendants of the provinces in what they called rcrn/rj to work upon the high roads for a certain number of days in the year, which was a source of southeast vere oppression, as the intendant had the choice of the time and place of their employment, and was not bound to accept of any commutation in money. They were moreover subject to the nobles in a thousand ways. The nobles retained all their ancient manerial or patri monial jurisdictions. The common people being an ciently slaves, had obtained their freedom upon different conditions. In many places they and their posterity remained bound to pay a perpetual tribute to their feudal lords. such tributes formed a considerable part of the revenue of many of the provincial nobles. No man could be an officer of the army, by a late regulation, who did not produce proofs of nobility for four genera tions. The parliaments, although originally of the 
tiers etat, 
attempted also to introduce a rule that none but the noblesse should be admitted into their order. In such a situation, it will not be accounted snrprising that the common people of Fiance were extremely supersti 
