persons condemned by the revolutionary tribunal. so unequally had property been divided under the ancient government, that by means of these consiscations about seven tenths of the national territory was supposed to be in the hands of the public. To this was added the plunder of the churches, consisting of gold and silver saints, and utensils employed in divine worship, along wtth other articles of iess value; among which may be mentioned the innumerable church bells, which were regarded as sufficient for the manufacture of 15, 000 pieces of cannon. These resources formed a mass of property such as never was possessed by any government. 
Other committees were engaged in very different objects. Highways were constructed, and canals planned and cut throughout the country. Immense manufacto ries of arms were everywhere established. At Paris alone 1100 muskets were daily fabricated, and ioo pieces of cannon cast every month. Public sehools were affiduously instituted, and the French language taught in its purity from the Pyrenees to the Rhine. The French Convention possessed immense resources, and they did not hesitate to lavish them upon their schemes. Every science and every art was called upon sor aid, and the most accomplished men in every profession were employed in giving splendour to their country. The chemists, in particular, gave essential aid by the facility with which they supplied materials for the manufacture of gunpowder;; in return for their services, Lavoisier, the greatest of them, suffered death by a most iniquitous sentence. Not fewer than 200 new dramatic performances were produced in less than two years; the object of which was to attach the people to the present order of things. The vigour with which the committees of subsistence exerted themselves is particularly to be remarked. As all Europe was at war with France, and as England, Holland, and spain, the three maritime powers, were engaged in the contest, it had been thought not impossible to reduce France to great distress by famine, especially as it was imagined that the country had not resources to supply its immense population. But the present leaders of that country acted with the policy of a besteged garrison. They seized upon the whole provisions in the country, and carried them to public granaries. They registered the cattle, and made their owners responsible for them. — They provided the armies abundantly, and, as the people were accurately numbered, they dealt out in every district, on stated occastons, what was absolutely necessary sor subsistence, and no more. To ali this the peo ple submitted 
y 
and indeed, throughout the whole of the mixed scenes of this revolution, the calm judgement 
of 
the historian is not a little perplexed. WC cannot avoid admiring the patience with which the people at Iarge endured every hardshsp that was represented as wecessary to the common cause, and the enthusiastic energy with which they lavished their blood in defence 
of 
the independence of their country. At the same time, we must regard with indignation ad disgust the worthless intrigues by means of which the sanguinary factions in the Convention and the capital alternately massacred each other. 
During the winter the dissensions of the Jacobins still increased. They were divided into two clubs, 
of 
which the new one assembled at a hall which once be 
longed 
to the Cordeliers The leaders 
of 
it were Hebert, 
Ronsin, Vhtcent, and others; but the 
old 
.society retained its ascendency, and Robespierre was now <je cidedly its leader. This extraordinary man had grada ally accumulated in his own person the confidence of the people and the direction of the government. As the committees were above the Convention, which was become little more than a silent court of record, so the committee of public sasety was above the other commit tees. Robespierre was the leader of this ruling com. msttee. Barrere, st Just, Couthon, and others of its members, only acted a secondary part. They laboured in the business of the state, but the radical power was with Robespierre. He surrounded the members of the Convention with spies. He was jealous and implacable, and set no bounds to the shedding of blood. On the 25th of March he brought to trial the following active Jacobins, who were condemned and executed on thc following day : Hebert, Ronsin, Momoro, Vincent, Du Croquet, Kocq, Col. Laumur, M. M. Bourgeois, Mazuel, La Boureau, Ancard, Le Clerk, Proly, des sieux, Anacharsis Cloots, Pereira, Florent Armand, Descombes, and Dcbuison. Not satissied with this, on thc 2d of April he brought to trial nine of those who had once been his most vigorous associates, Danton Fabre d’eglantine, Bazire, Chabot, Philippeaux, Camille Desmoulins, Lacroix, Delaunay d’angers, he rault de sechelles, who, along with westerqian, were executed on the evening of the 5th. 
still, however, the preparations for the ensuing campaign were proceeding with unabated vigour. 'The committee for military affairs, at the head of which were Carnot, La Fitte, d’aniffi, and others, was busy in arranging along the frontiers the immense force which the requisitson had called forth. Plans of attack and defence were made out by this committee; and when approved by the committee of public safety they were sent to the generals to be executed. On the other side, the allies were making powerful preparations for another attempt to subjugate France. The Emperor himself took the held at the head of the armies in the nether lands. The plan of the campaign is said to have been, formed by the Austrias Colonel Mack, west Flanders was to be protected by a strong body of men; the main army was to penetrate to Landrecies, and getting within the line of French frontier towns, it was to cut them off from the interior by covering the country from Maubeuge to the sea. The plan was 
bold. 
It belongs to military men to judge whether this was not its only merit, when attempting to put it in execution, the allies must have been ill informed of the immense force which the French were collecting against therm Even the town of Lisse alone, which is capable of containing a numerous army within its walls, and which was to be left in their rear, should have seerned an insurmountable objection to the plan. 
On the 16th of April the Austrian, British, and Dutch armies assembled on the heights above Cateau, and were reviewed by the emperor. On the following day they advanced in eight columne against the French, drove in their whole posts, and penetrated beyond lan drecies which place the French attempted to. relieve, but without success. The allied army now amounted to 187, 000 men, who were disposed in the following manner; 15, 000 Dutch and 
15, 000 
Austrians, under 
the 
prince of Orange and general. Latour, formed the 
