his mother coald not bear the expense of a regular edu cation in either of the universities of Oxford or cam bridge, which he doubtless thought absolutely necessary to one who aspired to respectability in the church of England. Yielding therefore to necessity, he resolved to study surgery and pharmacy; and was with this view bound apprentice to Dr Findlay, a physician ain Frasershurgh. But though obliged to relinquish for a time his favourite studies, he did not think ignorance excu sable in a surgeon more than in a clergyman, or conceive that he could ever.become eminent in the profession in which circumstances had placed him, merely by skill in setting a bone or compounding a medicine. He deter mined therefore, with the full approbation of his master, who very soon discovered his talents for literature, to make himself acquainted with at least the outlines of the liberal arts and sciences;; with this view he repaired in 1750 to the king’s College and university of Aberdeen, where he obtained one of the 
bursaries 
or 
exhibitions 
which are there annually bestowed upon such can didates for them as display the shost accurate knowledge of the Latin language. The small sum of five pounds, however (which none of these bursaries exceed), was still inadequate to the expense of residence in college; but our young student was soon to obtain a more valu àble exhibition, and to obtain it likewise by his own merit. 
During the long vacation he returned to his master Dr Findlay, and was by him entrusted with a very despe rate case in surgery, of which his management may be Laid to have laid the foundation of his future fortunes. A female servant of one of the judges of the Court of session, who, when the court was not sitting, resided in the neighbourhood of Frasershurgh, had been so dread sully gored by a buli, that hardly any hopes were enter stained of her recovery; but Mr Ramsay, to whose care she was entirely left, treated the wound with such skil full attention, that, contrary to general expectation, his patient recovered. This attracted the judge’s notice, who having informed himself of the young man’s cir eumstances and character, recommended him so effec tually to sir Alexander Ramsay of Balmain, that he jjresented him with a bursary of 15 pounds a year, which commenced at the next 
fesfion 
or 
term, 
in the same college. 
He now prosecuted his studies with comfort; and though he was detained in college a year longer than is usual, being obliged, upon his acceptance of a second bursary, to begin his course anew, he always considered this as a fortunate circumstance, because it gave him the celebrated Dr Reid three years for his preceptor. To that great and amiable philosopher he so recom mended himself by his talents, his industry, and his vir tues, that he was honoured with his friendship to the day of his death. Nor was it only to his masters that his conduct recommended him; sir Alexander Ramsay, whom he visited during some of the vacations, was so Well pleased with his conyersation, that he promised him 
another bursary, in his gift, of jl. a year, to com. mence immediately on the expiration of that which he enjoyed. This promise hc performed in the beginning of the year 1755; and at the solicitation of Dr Findlay even paid the money per advance to enable the cxhibi tioner to travel for the purpose of improving himself in his profession. 
Thus provided, Mr Ramsay went to London, and stu died surgery and pharmacy under the auspices of Dr Macauly; in whose family he lived sor two years, caressed and esteemed both by him and by his lady. Afterwards, having passed the usual examination at surgeon’s hall, he served in his medical capacity for several years in the royal navy; but how long he was continued in the station of a mate, or when and by whom he was first appoint ed surgeon, we have not been able to learn. We can say, however, * upon the best authority, that by his humane and diligent discharge of his duty in either station, he endeared himself to the seamen, and acquired the e sleem of his officers. 
Of his humanity there is indeed one memorable in stance, which must not be omitted, whilst he acted as surgeon of the Arundel, then commanded by Captain (now vice-admiral sir Charles) Middleton, a slave ship on her passage from Africa to the west Indies fell 
in 
with the fleet to which the Arundel belonged. An epidemical distemper, too common in such vessels, had swept away not only a great number of the unfortunate negroes, but also many of the ship’s crew, and among others the surgeon. In this distressed situation the commander of the Guinea ship applied to the English Commodore for medical assistance;; not a surgeon or furgeon’s mate in the whole fleet, except Mr Ramsay, would expose himself to the contagion of so dangerous a distemper. Prompted, however, by his own innate benevolence, and fully authorised by his no less bene volent commander, the surgeon of the Arundel, regard less of personal danger, and trusting in that God to whom mercy is more acceptable than sacrisice, went on board the infected ship, visited all the patients, and re mained long enough to leave behind him written direc tions for their future treatment. If a cup of cold water given in charity be entitled to a reward, how much more such an action as this? But the rewards of chri stianity are not immediate. Mr Ramsay indeed escaped the contagion; but on his return to his own ship, just as she had got on the deck, he fell and broke his thighbone; by which he was confined to his apartment for ten months, and rendered in a small degree lame through the remainder of his life. 
The fearless humanity which he displayed on this occasion gained him the 'friendship and esteem of sir Charles Middleton, which no future action of his life had the smallest tendency to impair; but the fracture of his thighbone and his subsequent lameness determined him to quit the navy, and once more turn hie thoughts towards thç church. Accordingly, while the Arundel lay at st christopher’s, he opened his views to 
ain 
the remote towns of scotland the same man generally acts in the triple capacity of physician, surgeon, and apothecary; and we could mention doctors of physic of thc first eminence, who practice' thus within forty »tiiles of Edinburgh, 
