assembly was thereafter opened by a short speech srom the throne, in which the king congratulated hitnfelf up on thus meeting his people assembled; alluded to the national debt, and the taxes, which were severely felt because unequally levied; he took notice of the general discontent and spirit of innovation which prevailed, but declared his confidence in the wisdom of the assembly for remedying every evil. “May an happy union (added he) reign in this assembly; and may this epocha become ever memorable for the happiness and profperi tv of the country. It is the wish of my heart; it is the most ardent desire of my prayers; it is, in short, the price which I expect from the sincerity of my intentions and my love for my people.” 
M. Barretin, the keeper of the seals, next addresscd the assembly'in a congratulatory and uninteresting speech. He was followed by the popular minister M. Neckar, who spoke for three hours. Though much applauded on account of the clear financial details which his speech contained, he encountered a certain degree of censure from all parties, on account of the cautious ambiguity which he observed with regard to the future proceedings of the states-general. 
Next day the three orders assembled separately. The deputies of the 
tiers etat 
amounted to 600 in number, and those of the nobles and clergy to 300 each. Dnrirfg their first sittings much time was spent in unimportant debates about trifling points of form; but the first important question, that necessarily became the subject of their discussion, was the 
verification of their powers, 
or production of the commissions of the members, and investigation of their authenticity. The commons 
(tiers etat) 
laid hold of this as a pretext for opening the grand controversy, whether the states-general should sit in one or in three separate chambers? They sent a deputation inviting the nobles and the clergy to meet along with them in the common hall for the purpose of 
verifying their powers 
in one common assembly. In the chamber of the clergy 114 members voted for the performance of this ceremony in the general assembly; and 133 against it. But in the more haughty order of the nobles, the resolution for the verification in their own assembly was carried by a majority of 188 against 47. The commons paid no regard to this. They were conducted by bold and skilful leaders, who dis cerned the importance of the point in contest, and resolved not to abandon it. Aware of the exigencies of the state, they knew that the crown was nearly verging upon bankruptcy; and that such were the deficiencies of the revenue that only a short delay was necessary to accomplish the absolute dissolution of the government. They suffered five weeks to pass away therefore in total inactivity. During this period proposals were made on the part of the ministry for a pacification between the three orders, and conferences were opened by commissioners from each. But no art could seduce the commons from their original purpose, or prevail with them to enter upon the business of the state. 
The nation had expected much from the assembling of the states-general, and learned the news of their inaction with no small degree of concern. The 
tiers etat 
was naturally popular, and the public censure could not readily devolve upon that favourite order. Moreover, srom the sirst period of their assembling the commons 
made every effort to augment their own natural popularity. 
They admitted all persons promisctiously into the galleries, and even into the body of their hail. No restraint was attempted to be laid upon the most vehement marks of popular applause or censure. Lists of the voters names were publicly taken and sent to Paris upon every remarkable occasion; and the members sud denly found themselves become, according to their political sentiments, the objects of general execration or applause. The new and bold notions of liberty that were daily advanced by the leaders of the 
tiers etat 
were received with acclamation by their hearers. The capi tal became interested in the issue of every debate; and the political fervour was eagerly imbibed by the nation with that vivacity which is so peculiar to the French. The commons accused the nobles of obstinately impeding the business of the state, by resusing to verify their powers in one common assembly. The accusation was swallowed by the multitude, who saw not, or were unwilling to see, that the attack was made by their own favourite order. In the mean time the nobles became rapidly more and more unpopular. Their persons were insulted, new publications daily came forth, and were greedily bought up, which reviled their whole order, and represented them as an useless or pernicious body of men, whose existence ought not to be tolerated in a free state. whoever adhered to them was branded with the odious appellation of 
Rrfiocrate. 
The clergy, from the influence of the parish 
curés 
or parsons, seemed ready 
to desert their cause. They were even opposed by a minority of their own body, which derived lustre from ha ving at its head the duke of Orleans, the first prince of the blood. still, however, the majority of the nobles remained firm; well aware, that if they once consented to sit in the same assembly, and to vote promis cuously, with the ambitious and more numerous body of the commons, their whole order, and all its splendid privileges, must speedily be overthrown. 
The leaders of the commons saw the change that was taking place in the minds of men; and they at length regarded the period as arrived when they ought to emerge from their inactivity, and execute the daring project of seizing the legislative authority in their country. They declared that the representatives of the nobles and the clergy were only the deputies of particular incorporations whom they would allow to sit and vote along with themselves; but who had no title in a coliective capacity to act as the legislators of france. For conducting business with more facility, they appointed 20 committees. In consequence of a proposal by the Abbé sleyes, a final message was sent to the privileged orders requiring their attendance as individuals, and intimating that the commons, as thc deputies of 96 out of every hundred of their country men, were about to assume the exclusive power of le gislation. None of the nobles obeyed this summons; but three cures, Messrs Cesve, Ballard, and Jalot, presented their commissions, and were received with loud acclamations. They were next day followed by five more, among whom were Messrs Gregoire, Dillon, and Bodineau. After some debate concerning the appella tion which they ought to assume, the commons, with such of the clergy as had joined them, solemnly voted themselves the sovereign legislators of their country under the name of the 
National sissembly, 
The result of the vote was no sooner declared, than the hall resounded 
