naturally dread. To the abovementioned means of ai luring by trailing, way baiting, and calling, is added another of a very material efficacy, which is, the use of oil of rhodium, which, like the marum syriacum in thc case of cats, has a very extraordinary fascinating power on these animals. This oil is extremely dear, and therefore sparingly used. It is exalted in a small quantity in the place, and at the entrance of it, where the rats are intended to be taken; particularly at the time when tlicy are to be last brought together, in order to their destruction; and it is used also by smearing it on the sursace of some of the implements used in taking by the method below described; and the effect it has in taking off their caution and dread, by the delight they appear 
to 
have in it, is very extraordinary. 
It is usual, likewise, for the operator to disguise his figure as well as seent, which is done by putting on a sort of gown or cloak, of one colour, that hides the natural form, and makes him appear like a post or some such inanimate thing; which habit must likewise be scented as above, to overpower the smell of his person and besides this, he is to avoid all motion till he has southeast cured his point of having all the rats in his power. 
when the rats are thus enticed and collected, where time is afforded, and the whole in any house and outbuildings are intended to be cleared away, they are suf fered to regale on what they most like, which is ready prepared for them, and then to go away quietly for two or three nights; by which means those that are not al lured the sirst night are brought afterwards, either by their fellows, or the effects of the trailing, c. and will not fail to come duly again, if they are not disturbed or molested. But many of the rat catchers make short er work, and content themselves with what can be brought together in one night or two; but this is never effectual, unless where the building is small and en tyre, and the rats but few in number.. 
The means of taking them, when they are brought together, are various. some entice them into a very large bag, the mouth of which is sufficiently capacious to cover nearly the whole floor of the place where they are collected; which is done by smearing some vessel, placed in the middle of the bag, with oil of rhodium, and laying in the bag baits of food. This bag, which before lay flat on the ground with the mouth spread open, is to be suddenly closed when, the rats are ali in.. Others drive or fright them, by ssight noises or motions, into a bag of a long form, the mouth of which, after all the rats, are come in, is drawn up to the opening of the place by which they entered, all other ways of retreat being seeured. Others, again, intoxicate or poison them, by mixing with the. repast prepared for them the cocu ius Indicus, or the nux vomica. They direct four oun ces of the coculus Indieus, with twelve ounces of oatmeal, and two ounces of treacle or honey, made into a moist paste with strong beer : but if the nux vomica be used, a much less proportion will serve than, is here given of the coculus. Any similar composition of these drugs, with that kind of food the rats are most fond of, and which has a strong flavour, to hide that of the drugs, will equally well answer the end. If indeed the coculus Indicus be well pewdered, and infused in strong beer for some time, at least half the quantity here directed will serve as well as the quantity before men 
tioned. when the rats appear to be 
thoroughly 
in 
toxicated with the coculus, or sick with the nux vomica, they may be taken with the hand, and put into a bag or cage, the door of the place being first drawn to, left those who have strength and sense remaining escape. 
rar istand, 
a small detached part of the island of Lundy, off the north coast of Devon. ’ Though noted in donn’s map of the county, it is not worth mention here, but as giving opportunity to subjoin a farther notice of Lundy, which island was purchased a few years since by Mr Cleveland M. P. for about 1200 guineas who has a small villa on it : not more than 400 acres are cultivated : it is let altogether for 70i. a year. The soil is good, though no trees will grow on the issand.' It has fine springs of water : the houses are seven : the inhabitants, men, women, and children, do not exceed 24. The bird called 
murr, 
whose eggs are very large and fine, the Lundy parrot, and rabbits, are the chief produce; these abound, and are taken for the feathers, eggs, and skins, principally. They have now (1794) 70 bullocks and 400 sheep, but the latter do not thrive.' They pay no taxes : fishing skiffs often call with necessaries: : situation is very pleasant, and the rocks: around, which are large, and partly granite, are wild,, romantic, and novel. It had probably more inhabitants once, as human bones have been ploughed up. It has no place of worship, nor public-house; but strangers are always welcome. Eight cannon lie on the battlements on the top of a very steep precipice, under which is a curious cavern. Lord Gower, Mr Benson, and sir J. B. warren, K. B. have been former proprietors. see Lundy. 
rat taifs, 
or 
Arrefis. 
see Farriery, § XXXVII 
RATAFIA, a sine spirituous liquor, prepared from, the kernels, cof several kinds of fruits, particularly of cherries and apricots. 
Ratafia of cherries is prepared by bruising the cher ries, and putting them into a vessel wherein brandy has been long kept; then adding to them the kernels of cherries, with strawberries, sugar, cinnamon, white j.j· per, nutmeg, cloves; and to 20 pound of cherries 10 quarts of brandy. The vessel is left open ten or twelve days, and then stopped close for two months before it be tapped. Ratafia of apricots is prepared two ways, viz. either by boiling the apricots in white wine, adding to the liquor an equal quantity of brandy, with sugar, cinnamon, mace, and the kernels of apricots; infilling the whole for eight or ten days; then straining the li quor, and putting it up for use : or else by infusing the apricots, cut in pieces, in brandy, for asuay or two, pas sing it through a straining bag, and then putting in the usual ingredients. 
RATCH, or rash, in clockwork, a sort of wheel having twelve fangs, which serve to lift up the detents every hour, and make the clock strike. see Clock. 
ratchets, in a watch, are the small teeth at the bottom of the fusy, or barrel, which stops it in winding U PRATE, 
a standard or proportion, by which either the quantity or value of a thing is adjusted. 
rates, in the navy, the orders or classes into vvhich. the ships of war are divided, according to their force and magnitude.. 
The regulation, which limits the rates of men of war to the smallest number possible, seems to have been dictated 
by 
considerations of political economy, or of that 
