CD 
to 
the king, by their speaker sir Thomas Audley, of these reflections thrown out against them; and the. bishop was obliged to retract his words. 
Though Henry had not the least idea of rejecting any, even of the most absurd Romish superstitions, yet as the oppressions of the clergy suited very ill with the violence of his own temper, he was pleased with every opportunity of lessening their power. In the parliament of 1531, he showed his design of humbling the clergy in the most effectual manner. An obsolete sta tute was revived, from which it was pretended that it was criminal to submit to the legatine power which had been exercised by cardinal Wolsey. By this stroke the whole body of clergy was declared guilty at once. They were too well acquainted with henry’s disposition, however, to reply, that their ruin would have been the certain consequence of their not submitting to wolsey’s commission which had been given by royal authority. Instead of making any defence of this kind, they chose to throw themselves on the mercy of their sovereign; which, however, it cost them 118, 8401. to procure. A confession was likewise extorted from them, that the king was protector and supreme head of the church of England; though some of them had the dexterity to get a clause inserted, which invalidated the whole submission, viz. 
in sofar as is permitted by the law of Christ. 
The king, having thus begun to reduce the power of the clergy, kept no bounds with them, afterwards. He did not indeed attempt any reformation in religious matters; nay, be persecuted most violently such as did attempt this in the least. Indeed, the most essential article of his creed seems to have been his own supremacy;; whoever denied this, was sure to suffer the most severe penalties, whether Protestant or Papisl. But an account of the absurd and cruel conduct of this prince, and of his sinal quarrel with the pope on ae count of his resusing a dispensation to marry Anne bo leyn, is given under the article England, n 253 — 392. 
He died in 1547, and was succeeded by his only son Edward VI This amiable prince, whose early youth was crowned with that wisdom, sagacity, and virtue, that would have done honour to advanced years,, gave new spirit and vigour to the Proteffant cause, and was its brightest ornament, as well as its most effec tual support. He encouraged learned and pious men of foreign countries to settle in England, and addres sed a particular invitation to Martin Bucer and Paul Fagius, whose moderation added a lustre to their other virtues, that, by the ministry and labours of these eminent men, in concert with those of the friends of the Reformation in England, he might purge his domi nions from the sordid fictions of popery, and establish the pure doctrines of Christianity in their place. For this purpose, he issued out the wisest orders for the restoration of true religion; but his reign was too short to accomplish fully such a glorious purpose. i11 the year 1553, he was taken from his loving and afflicted subjects, whose sorrow was inexpressible, and suited to their loss. His sister Mary (the daughter of Catharine of Arragon, from whom Henry had been separated by the famous divorce), a furious bigot to the ehurch of Rome, and a princess whose natural character, like the spirit of her religion, was despotic and cruel, succeeded him on the British throne, and imposed anew the arbitrary laws and the tyrannical yoke of Rome upon the people of England. Nor were the methods she employed in the cause of superstition better than the cause itself, or tempered by any sentiments of equity or compassion. Barbarous tortures and death, in the most shocking forms, awaited those who opposed her will, or made the least stand against the restoration of Popery. And among many other victims, the learned and pious Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury, who had been one 
ot 
the most illustrious instruments of the Reformation in England, fell a sacrisice to her fury. This odious scene of persecution was happily concluded in the year 1558, by the death of the queen, who left no issue;; as soon as her successor the lady Elizabeth ascend ed the throne, all things assumed a new and a pleasin /' aspect. This illnstrions princess, whose sentiments counsels, and projects, breathed a spirit supersor to the natural softness and delicacy of her sex, exerted this vigorous and manly spirit in the defence of oppressed conscience and expiring liberty, broke anew the de spotic yoke of Papal authority and superstition, and, delivering her people from the bondage of Rome, esta blished that form of religions doctrine and ecclesiastical government which still subsists in England. This religious establishment differs, in some respects, from the plan that had been formed by those whom Edward VI had employed for promoting the cause of the reforma v 
tion, and approaches nearer to the rites and discipline " of former.times; though it is widely different, and, in the most important points, entirely opposite to the principles of the Roman hierarchy. see England, n 293., c. 
The cause of the reformation underwent in Ireland the same vicissitudes and revolutions that had attended it in England, when Henry VIL after the abolition of tile Papal authority, was declared supreme head upon eaitn of 
tile 
church of England, George Brown, a na tive of England, and a monk of the Augustine order, whom that monarch had created, in the year 1535·, archbishop of Dublin, began to act with the utmost vigour in consequence of this change in the hierarchy. He purged the churches of his diocese from superstition in all its various forms, pulled down images, destroyed relics, abolished abiurd and idolatrous rites, and, by the influence as well as authority he had in Ireland, caused the king’s supremacy to be acknowledged in that nation. Henry showed, soon after, that this supremacy was not a vain title; for he banished the monks out of that kingdom, confiseated them revenues, and destroyed their convents. In the reign of Edward VI still farther progress was made in the removal of Popish superstitions, by the. zealous labours of bishop Brown, and the auspicious encouragement he granted to all who exerted themselves in the cause of the re formation. But the death of this excellent prince, and the accession of queen Mary, had like to have changed the face of affairs in Ireland as much as in, England; but her designs were disappointed by a very curious adventure, of which the following account has been copied from the papers of Richard earl of Cork. 
"Queen Mary having dealt severely with the Protestants m England, about the latter end of her reign signed a commission for to take the same course with them in Ireland; and to execute the same with greater force, she nominates Dr Cole one of the commissioners. This Doctor coming, with the commission, to Chester 
