adequate ideas 
and 
notions of every object in which they were interested, brought all their organs, external and internal, at once to their utmost possible state of perfection; taught them instantaneoussy the laws of reasoning;; in one word, stored their minds with every branch of useful knowledge? This is indeed our own opinion; and it is perfectly agreeable to what we are taught by the Hebrew lawgiver. when God had formed Adam and Eve, Moses does not say that he lest them to acquire by slow degrees the use of their senses and reasoning powers, and to distinguish as they could fruits that were salutary from those that were poisonous. No : he placed them in a garden where every tree but one bore fruit fit for food; he warned them particulaily against the fruit of that tree; he brought before them the various animals which roamed through the garden; he arranged these animals into their proper genera and species; and by teaching Adam to give them names, he communicated to the 
sirst 
pair the elements of language. This condescension appears in every respect worthy of perfect benevolence; and indeed without it the helpless man and woman could not have lived one whole week. But it cannot be sup posed, that amidst so much useful instruction the gra cious Creator would neglect to communicate to his rational creatures the knowledge of himself; to inform them of their own origin, and the relation in which they stood to him; and to state in the plainest terms the duties incumbent on them in return sor so much goodness. 
In what manner all this knowledge was communica ted, cannot be certainly known. It may have been in either of the following ways conceivable by us, or in others of which we can form no conception. God may have miraculousiy stored the minds of the sirst pair with adequate ideas and notions of sensible and intellectual objects; and then by an internal operation of his own spirit have enabled them to exert at once their rational faculties so as to discover his existence and attributes, together with the relation in which as creatures they stood to him their Almighty Creator. Or, after rendering them capable of distinguishing objects by means of their senses, of comparing their ideas, and understand ing a language, he may have exhibited himsels under feme sensible emblem, and conducted them by degrees from one branch of knowledge to another, as a schoolmaster conducts his pupisa, till they were sufficiently acquainted with everything relating to their own happiness and duty as rational, moral, and religious, creatures. In determining the question before us, it is of no importance whether infinite wisdom adopted either of these methods, or some other different from them, both which we cannot conceive. The ordinary process in which men acquire knowledge is, by the laws of their nature, extremely tedious. They cannot reason before their minds be stored with ideas and notions; and they cannot acquire these but through the medium of their senses long exercised on external objects. 
The progenitors of the human race, left to inform themseives by this process, must have inevitably perished before they had acquired one distinct notion; and it is the same thing with respect to the origin of religion, whether God preserved them from destruction by aa 
internal 
or 
external 
revelation. If he stored their minds at once with the rudiments of all usesul knowledge, and 
rendered them capable of exerting their rational 
faculties, 
so as, by tracing effects to their causes, to discover his being and attributes, he 
revealed 
himself to them as certainly as he did afterwards to Moses, when to him he condescended to speak face to face. 
If this reasoning be admitted as fair and conclusive, and wc apprehend that the principles on which it proceeds cannot be considered as ill-founded, we have advanced so far as to prove that mankind must have been originally enlightened by a revelation. But it is scarce necessary to observe, that this revelation must have been handed down through succeeding generations. It could not fail to reach the era of the deluge. It is not absurd to suppose, that he who spake from heaven to Adam, spake also to Noah. And both the revelation which had been handed down to the postdeluvian patriarch by tradition, and that which was communicated immediately to himself, would be by him made known to his descendants. Thus it appears almost impossible that some part of the religious sentiments of mankind should not have been derived from revelation; and that not of the religious sentiments of one particular family or tribe, but of almost all the nations of the earth. 
This conclusion, which we have deduced by fair rea soning from the benevolence of God and the nature of man, is confirmed by the authority of the Jewish and Christian scriptures, which are entitled to more implicit credit than all the other records of ancient his tory. 
when we review the internal and external evidence of the authenticity of these sacred books, we cannot for a moment hesitate to receive them as the genuine 
word of God. 
If we examine their internal character, they everywhere appear to be indeed the voice of Heaven. The creation of the world — the manner in which this globe was sirst peopled — the deluge which swept away its inhabitants — the succeeding views of the state of mankind in the next ages after the deluge — the calling of Abraham — the legissation of Moses — the whole series of events which befell the Jewish nation — the prophecies — the appearance of Jesus Christ, and the promulgation of his gospel, as explained to us in the scrip turee — form one series, which is, in the highest degree, illustrative of the power, wisdom, and goodness of the supreme Being. 
while it must be allowed that the human mind is ever prone to debase the sublime principles of true religion by enthusiasm and superstition, reason and can dour will not sora moment hesitate to acknowledge, that the whole system of revelation represents the supreme Being in the most sublime and amiable light : that, in it, religion appears effentialiy connected with morality : that the legislative code of Moses was such as no legislator ever formed and established among a people e qually rude and uncultivated : that the manners and morals of the Jews, vicious and savage as they may in some instances appear, yet merit a much higher character than those either of their neighbours, or of almost any other nation, whose circumstances and character were in other respects similar to theirs : that there is an infinite difference between the scripture prophecies and the oracles and predictions which prevailed among hea then nations : and that the miracles recorded in those writings which we esteem sacred were attended with circumstances which entitle them to be ranked in a very 
