But something farther may be yet said in defence of this 
artificial 
delivery, as our author calls it. Is not the movement of anything, of whatever species, when dignified or solemn, in general of an 
equable 
and 
deliberate 
nature (as in the minuet, the military step, c?? in theatrical declamation, is not the propensity to introduce this 
equableness 
so strong, that it is almost 
impossible 
to avoid it wholly, were we ever so determined to do it? If these two queries be answered in the affirmative (as we are persuaded they will), while the sirst supports our argument for the 
propriety 
of the manner of delivery in question, the second discovers a kind of northeast 
cffity 
sor it. And that this manner may be carried a little 
farther 
in quantity on the 
Jlage 
than is usual in 
real life, 
the principle IV of heightening nature will justify, provided sashion (which has ever something to do in these articles) give it a sanction;; the 
precise 
quantity of several heightenings may be varied by this great legisiator almost at will. 
II 
Emphasis. 
As 
emphasis 
is not a thing annexed to particular words, as 
accent 
is to syliables, but owes its rise chiefly to the 
meaning 
of a passage, and must there fore vary its seat according as that meaning varies, it will be necessary to explain 
a 
little farther the general idea given of it above. ♦ 
Of mart’s ssrst disobedience, ’ and the fruit Of that forbidden tree, whose mortal taste Brought death into the world, and ali our woe, c. sing heav’nly muse, c. 
supposmg, in reference to the above well-known lines, that originally other beings, besides men, had dis obeyed the commands of the Almighty, and that the circumstance were well known to us, there would fall an 
empb fis 
upon the word 
man's 
in the sirst line, and hence it would be read thus; 
Of 
man's 
sirst disobedience, and the fruit, e. 
But if it were a notorious truth, that mankind had transgressed in a peculiar manner more than once, the 
emphasis 
would fall on 
first, 
and the line be read, 
Of man’s 
first 
disobedience, c. 
Again, admitting death (as was really the case). to 
have been an unheard of and dreadful punishment brought upon man in consequence of his transgression 5 on that supposition the third line would be read, 
Brought 
death 
into the world, chut 
if we were to suppose mankind knew there was such an evil as death in other regions, though the place they inhabited had been free from it till their transgreffion; the line would run thus, 
Brought death into the 
world, 
enough 
from a proper delivery of the above lines, with regard to any one of the suppositions we have chosen, out of several others that might in the same manner have been imagined, it will appear that the 
emphofts 
they illustrate is effected by a manifest 
delay 
in the pronunciation, and a tone something 
fuller 
and 
louder 
than is used in ordinary; and that its office is solely to determine the meaning of a sentence with reference to something said before, prefupposed by the author as general knowledge, or in order to remove an, ambiguity where a pastage is capable of having more senses given it than one. 
But, supposing in the above example, that none of the senses there pointed out were preciiely the true one, and that the meaning of the lines were no other than what is obviousiy suggcsted by their simple construction; in that cafe it may be asked, if in reading them there should be no word dignified with the emphatical accom panyments above described? — The answer is, Not one with an emphasis of the 
Jame 
kind as that we have just been illustrating; yet it is nevertheless true, that on hearing these lines well read, we shall find some words, distinguished from the rest by a manner of delivery bordering a little upon it a). And these words will in general be such as seem the most important in the sentence, or on other accounts to merit this distinction. But as at best it only 
enforces, graces, 
or 
enlivens, 
and not 
fixes 
the meaning of any passage, and even caprice and fashion b) have often a hand in determining its place and magnitude, it cannot properly be reckoned an 
effintial 
of delivery. However, it is of too much moment to be neglected by those who would wish to be good readers; and, for the sake of distinction, we may not 
a) 
The following lines will illustrate both these kinds of stresses: For, to convey their right meaning, the word any is evidently to be pronounced louder and fuller than those with the accents over them. 
Get wealth and place, if possible with grâce; 
If not, by any means get wealth and place. Pope. 
This couplet is accented in the manner we find it in the 
Effiay on Elocution 
by 
Mason. 
And if, according to the judgement of this author, the words thus distinguished are to have an emphatical stress, it must be of the inferior kind abovementioned, and which a little farther on we call 
emphajis of force; 
while the word any in a different type alone possesses the other sort f energy, and which is there contradistinguished by the term 
emphasis. offiof 
b) 
Among a number of people who have had proper opportunities of learning to read in the best manner it is now taught, it would be difficult to find two, who, in a given instance, would use the 
emphasis of force 
alike,, either as to place or quantity. Nay some scarce use any at all : and others will not scruple to carry it 
much 
beyond anything we have a precedent for in common discourse; and even now and then throw it upon words so. very trifling in themselves, that it is evident they do it with no other view, than for the sake of the 
variety 
it gives to the modulation. — This practice, like the introduction of discords into music, may without doubt be indulged now and then; but were it too frequent, the capital intent of these energies would manifestly either be destroyed or rendered dubious. 
