Though he wrote a large volume, containing 
a 
theory of light and colours totally opposite to newton’s, he has published many dissertations on optical phenomena on the Newtonian principles, expressly because his own principles 
non ideo facile aofam prodebat analyf infru end#. 
Not a shadow of argument is given for the leading principle in this theory, 
viz. 
that the velocity of the jet is the same with the velocity of the slream. None can be given, but saying that the pressure is equivalent to its production; and this is assuming the very thing he la bours to prove. The matter of fact is, that the velocity of the jet is greater than that of the stream, and may be greater almost in any proportion, which curious circumstance was discovered and ingenioussy explained long ago by Daniel Bernoulli in his 
hydrodyna mica. 
It is evident that the velocity must be greater, were a stream of fand to come against the plane, what goes through would indeed preserve its velocity unchanged : but when a real fluid strikes the plane, all that does not pass through is deflected on all ssdes; and by these deflections forces are excited, by which the filaments which surround the cylinder immediately fronting the hole are made to press this cylinder on all sides, and as st were squeeze ir between them : and thus the particles at the hole must of necessity be accelerated, and the velocity of the jet mnst be greater than that of the stream. äve are disposed to think that, in a fluid perfectly incompreffible, the velocity wili be doubled, or at least increased in the proportion of i to 
of I. 
Is the fluid is in the smallest degree compressible, even in the very smali degree that water is, the velocity at the sirst impulse may be much greater. D. Bernoulli sound that a column of water moving y seet per second, in a tube some hundred seet long, produced a velocity of 136 feet per second in the first moment. 
There being this radical defect in the theory of Mr Euler, it is needless to take notice of its total insuffi ciency sor explaining oblique impulses and the resistance of curvilineal prows. 
we are extremely sorry that our readers are deriving so little advantage srom all that we have said; and that having taken them by the hand, we are thus obliged to grope about, with only a few scattered rays of light to direct our steps. Let us see what assistance we can get srom Mr d’alembert, who has attempted a solution of this problem in a method entirely new and extremely ingenious. He saw clearly that all the followers of Newton had sorsaken thc path which he had marked out sor them in the second part of his investigation, and had merely amused themselves with the mathematical discuffions with which his introductory hypothesis gave them an opportunity of occupying themselves. He paid the deserved tribute of applause to Daniel Bernoulli sor having introduced the notion of pure pressure as the chief agent in this business; and he saw that he was in the right road, and that it was srom hydrostati cal principles alone that we had any chance of explaining the phenomena of hydraulics. Bernoulli had only considered the pressures which were excited in consequence of the curvilineal motions of the particles. Mr d’alembert even thought that these pressures were not the consequences, but the causes, of these curvilineal motions. No internal motion can happen in a fluid but in consequence of an unbalanced pressure; and every 
such motion will produce an inequality of pressure, which will determine the succeeding motions. He there fore endeavoured to reduce all to the discovery of those disturbing pressures, and thus to the laws of hydrosta tics. Fie had long before this hit on a very resigned and ingenious view of the action of bodies on each other, which had enabled him to solve many of the most difficult problems concerning the motions of bodies, such as the centre of oscillation, of spentaneous conversmn, the precession of the equinoxes, cc. with great facility and elegance. He saw that the same principle would apply to the action of fluid bodies. The principle is this. 
"In whatever manner any number of bodies are supposed to act on each other, and by these actions come to change their prefsnt motions, if we conceive that the motion which each body would have in the following infant ( if it became free), is resolved into two other motions; one of which is the motion which it really takes in the Jollowing infant; the other will be such, that is each body had no other motion but this second, the whole bodies would have remained in equilibria.” Vie 
here observe, that " the motion which each body would have in the following instant, if it became free, ” is a continuation of the motion which it has in the sirst instant. It may therefore perhaps be better expressed thus : 
lf the motions of bodies, anyhow acting on each other, be conf dered in two consecutive irf ants, and if we conceive the motion which it has in the frf infant as compounded of two others, one of which is the motion which it actually takes in the second infant, the other is such, that if each body had only those second motions, the wholesyftm would have remained in equilibria. 
The proposition itself is evident. For if these second motions be not such as that an equilibrium of thc whole system would result from them, the other component motions would not be those which the bodies really have after the change; for they would necessarily be altered by these unbalanced motions. see d’a lembert 
ejfiti de Dynamique. 
Assisted by this incontestable principle, Mr d’alem bert demonstrates, in a manner equally new and simple, those propositsons which Newton had so cautioussy deduced from his hypothetical fluid, showing that they were not limited to this hypothesis, 
viz. 
that the motions produced by similar bodies, similarly projected in them, would be similar; that whatever were the pres sures, the curves described by the particles would be the same; and that the resistance would be proportional to the squares of the velocities. He then comes to consider the fluid as having its motions constrained by the form of the canal or by solid obstacles interposed. 
we shall here give a summary account of his fundamental proposition. 
It is evident, that if the body ADCE (sig. 16.) did not form an obstruction to the motion of the water, the particles would describe parallel lines TF, OK, P.s., chut while yet at a distance from the body in F, K, s, they gradually change their directions, and describe the curves FM, K 
m, 
s 
n, 
fo much more ineürvated as they are nearer to the body. At a certain distance ZY this curvature will be insensible, and the fluid included in the space zyhcquvill move uniformly as if the solid body were not there. The motions on the other side of the axis AC will be the same; and we need only 
