Their genius is Cumulated to commerce, 
by the example 
of their neighbours of Glasgow, as well as the convenience of the river and frith of Clyde, along the course of which they are situated. 
rennes, a town of France, in Bretagne, and capital of that province. Before the revolution it had a bishop’s see, two abbeys, a parliament, and a mint. It is very populous; the houses are six or seven storscs high, and the suburbs of larger extent than the town itfeif. The cathedral church is large, and the parlia ment house a handsome structure. The great square belonging to it is surrounded with handsome houses. There is a tower, formerly a pagan temple, which now contains the town clock. It is seated on the river vii laine, which divides it into two parts, and was ancient ly fortified, but the walls are now in ruins, and the ditch nearly filled up. The siege of the city by ed ward III king of England, is very celebrated in hi story. The English and Breton army consisted of 40, 000 men; and nevertheless, after having remained before it six months, were obliged to retire without success. E. Long. o. 23. N. Lat. 48. 7. 
RENNET. see Runnet, 
RENT, in law, a sum of money, or other considera tion, issuing yearly out of lands or tenements. 
RENTE RING, in the manufactories, the same with fine drawing. It consists in sewing two pieces of cloth edge to edge, without doubling them, so that the seam scaree appears; and hence it is denominated 
fine drawing. 
lt is a French word meaning the same thing, and is derived from the Latin 
retrahere, 
or 
re, in, 
and 
trahere, 
because the seam is drawn in or covered. WEAR told, that in the East Indies, if a piece of sine muffin be torn and afterwards mended by the sine drawers, it will be impossible to discover where the rent was. Irf this country the dexterity of the sine drawers is not so great as that of those in the east; but it is still such as to enable them to defraud the revenue, by sewing a head or ssip of English cloth on a piece of Dutch, spanish, or other foreign cloth : or a slip of foreign cloth on a piece of English, so as to pass the whole as of a piece; and by that means avoid the duties, penalties, c. The trick was sirst discovered in France by M. savary. 
Rentering, in tapestry, is the working new warp into a piece of damaged tapestry, whether eaten by the rats or otherwise destroyed, and on this warp to restore the ancient pattern or design. The warp is to be of woollen, not linen. Among the titles of the French tapestry makers is included that of renterers. fine drawing is particularly used for a rent or hole, which happens in dressing or preparing a piece of cloth art fully sewed up or mended with silk. All fine drawings are reckoned defects or blemishes; and should be allowed 

for in the price of the piece. 
renverse, inverted, in heraldry, is when anything is set with the head downwards, or contrary to its natural way of standing. Thus, a chevron renverse, is a chevron with the point downwards. They use also the same term when a beast is laid on its back. 
RENUNCIATION, the act of renouncing, abdi 'cating, or relinquishing, any right, real or pretended. 
REPARTEE, a smart, ready reply, especially in matters of wit, humour, or raillery. see Raillery. 
REPEALING, in law, the revoking or annulling of a statnte or the like. 
No act of parliament shall be repealed the same session in which it was made. A deed or will may be repealed in part, and stand good sor the rest. It is held that a pardon of felony may be repealed on disproving the suggestion thereof. 
repellents, in medicine, remedies which drive back a morbid humour into the mass of blood, srom whence it was unduly secreted. 
REPENTANCE, in general, means sorrow for anything past. In theology st means such a sorrow sor sin as produces newness oslise, or such a conviction of the evil and danger of a sinsul course as is snfficient to produce shame and sorrow in the review of it, and effectual resolutions of amendment. In this sense the evangelical writers use ^.era^sx₤: « an si ^ίτα»ο<«. see Penitence and Theology. 
repercussion, in music, a frequent repetition of the same sound. 
REPERTORY, a place wherein things are orderly disposed, so as to be easily found when wanted. The indices of books are repertories, showing where the matters sought sor are treated of. Common place books are also kinds of repertories. 
REPETITION, the reiterating of an action. 
Repetition, in music, denotes a reiterating or playing over again the same part of a composition, whether it be a whole strain, part of a strain, or double ssrain, c. 
when the song ends with a repetition of the first strain, or part of it, the repetition is denoted by 
da 
capo, 
or D. C 
i. e. 
"srom the beginning.” 
Repetition, in rhetoric, a figure which gracesully and emphatically repeats either the same word, or thc same sense in different words. see Oratory, n 67 — 80. 
The nature and design of this figure is to make deep impressions on those we address. It expresses anger and indignation, full assurance of what vve affirm, and a ve hement concern sor what vve have espoused. 
REPH1DIM (anc. geog.), a station of the Israelites near mount Horeb, where they murmured sor want of water; when Moses was ordered to smite the rock Horeb, upon which it yielded water. Here Joshua dis comfited the Amalekites. This rock, out of which Moses brought water, is a stone of a prodigious height and thickness, rismg out of the ground; on two ssdes of which are several holes, by which the water ran. (Thevenot.) 
REPLEGIARE, in law, signifies to redeem a thing taken or detained by another, by putting in legal sureties. 
De homine REPLEGIANDO. see Homine. 
REPLEVIN, in law, a remedy granted on a distress, by which the si st posseffor has his goods restored to him again, on his giving security to the sheriff that he will pursue his action against the party distraining, and return the goods or cattle is the taking them shall be adjudged lawful. 
In a replevin the person distrained becomes plaintiff; and the person distraining is called the 
defendant 
or 
avowant, 
and his justification an 
avowry. 
At the common-law replevins are by writ, either out of the king’s bench or common pleas; but by statute, they are by plaint in the sheriff’s cyurt, and court baron, sora person’g more speedily obtaining the goods distrained. 
