Dr 
Derham accounted 
for 
the precipitation of the drops of ram from the vesicular being full of air, and meeting with an air colder than they contained, the air they contained was of consequence contracted into a smaller space; and consequently the watery shell rendered thicker, and thus specisically heavier, than the common atmosphere. But it has been shown, that the vesiculae, if such they are, of vapour, are not filled with air, but with fire, or heat; and consequent ly, till they part with this latent heat, the vapour can not be condensed §. Now, cold is not always sufficient to effect this, since in the most severe frosts the air is very often serene, and parts with little or none of its va pour for a very considerable time. Neither can we admit the winds to have any considerable agency in this matter, since we find that blowing upon vapour is so far from condensing it, that it unites it more closely with the air, and wind is found to be a great promoter of evaporation. 
According to Rohault, the great cause of rain is the heat of the air; which, after continuing for some time near the earth, is raffed on high by a wind, and there thawing the snowy villi or flocks of half frozen vesiculae, reduces them to drops; which, coalescing, de scend. Here, however, we ought to be informed by what means these vesiculae are suspended in their half frozen state;; the thawing of them can make but little difference in their specisic gravity, and it is cer tain that they ascended through the air not in a fro zen but in an aqueous state. 
Dr Clarke and others ascribe this descent of the rain rather to an alteration of the atmosphere than of the vesiculae;; suppose it to arise from a diminution of the elastic force of the air. This elasticity, which, they say, depends chiefly or wholly upon terrene exhalations, being weakened, the atmosphere finks under its burden, and the clouds fall. Now, the little vesicles being once upon the descent, will continue there in, notwithstanding the increase of resistance they every moment meet with. For, as they all tend to the centre of the earth, the farther they fall, the more coalitions they will make; and the more coalitions, the more matter will there be under the same surface;; sursace increasing only as the squares, but the solidity as the cubes; and the more matter under the same surface, the less resistance will there be to the same matter. Thus, if the cold, wind, c. act early enough to precipitate the ascending vesicles before they are arrived at any considerable height, the coalitions being but few, the drops will be proportionably small; and thus is formed a dew. If the vapours be more copious, and rise a little higher, we have a mist or fog. A little higher still, and they produce a small lain; if they neither meet with cold nor wind, they form a heavy thick dark sky. This hypothesis is equally un satisfactory with the others; for, granting that the de scent and condensation of the vapours are owing to a diminution of the atmosphere’s elasticity, by what is this diminution occasioned? To say that it is owing to ter rene exhalations, is only solving one difficulty by another; since we are totally unacquainted both with the nature and operation of these exhalations. Besides, let us suppose the cause to be what it will, if it acts equally and at once upon all the vapour in the air, then all that vapour must be precipitated at once; and thus, 
in 
st 
ead 
of 
gentle 
showers continuing for a considerable length of time, we should have the most violent water spouts, continuing only for a few minutes, or perhaps seconds, which, instead of refreshing the earth, would drown and lay waste everything before them. 
since philosophers have admitted the electric sfluid to such a large share in the operations of nature, almost all the natural phenomena have been accounted, for by the action of that fluid; and rain, among others, has been reckoned an effect of electricity. But this word, unless it is explained, makes us no wiser .than we were before; the phenomena of artificial electricity having been explained on principles which could scarce apply in any degree to the electricity of nature : and therefore all the solution we can obtain of the natural appearances of which we speak, comes to this, that rain is occasioned by a moderate electrification, hail and snow by one more violent, and thunder by the most violent of all; but in what manner this electrification is occa sioned, hath not yet been explained. Throughout the various parts of this work where electricity hath been occasionally mentioned, the principles of artificial electricity || 
, 
laid down in the treatise appropriated to that subject, have been applied to the solution of the phenomena of nature; those which are necessary to be attend ed to here are the following : 
1. 
The electric fluid and solar light are the same substance in two different modifications. 
2. Electricity is the motion of the stuid when running, or attempting to run, in a continued stream from one place to another : heat is when the fluid has no tendency but to vibrate outwards and inwards to and from a centre; or at least when its streams converge to a point or focus. 
3. The fluid acting as electricity, like water, or any other fluid, always tends to the place where there is least resistance. 
On these three principles msay the phenomena of at mospherical electricity, and the descent of rain by its means, be explained as follows : 
i The light or heat of the sun, acting in that pe cilliar manner which we call 
heat, 
unites itself with the moisture of the earth, and forms it into vapour, which thus becomes specisically lighter than air, and of consequence ascends in the atmosphere to a certain height. 
2. Besides the quantity of light which is thus united to the water, and forms it into vapour, a very con siderable quantity enters the earth, where it assumes the nature of electric fluid. 
3. As the earth is always full of that fluid, every quantity which enters must displace an equal quantity which is already there. 
4. 
This quantity which is displaced must escape ei there at a distance from the place where the other eil ters, or very near it. 
5. 
At whatever place a quantity of electric matter escapes, it must electriiy the air above that place where it has escaped; and as a considerable quantity of light must always be reflected from the earth into the atmosphere, where it does not combine with the aqueous vapour, we have thence another source of electricity to the air; as this quantity must undoubt edly assume the action of electric fluld, especially after the action of the fun has ceased. Hence the rea 
