usually Form, 
as 
has been already observed under this article, the basis of civil order. Religious opinions may lead the great body of the community to reverence some particular fet of institutions, some individual, or some family, which are represented to them as peculiarly connected with the gods whom they adore. Under this sanction some form f government is established;; are taught to perform social duties, and rendered capable of social enjoyments. Not only nu ma and Lycurgus, but almoss every legissator who has sought to civilise a rude people, and reduce them under the restraints of legal government, have endeavoured to impress their people with an idea that they acted with the approbation, and under the immediate direction of superior powers, we cannot but allow that the rude superstitions of early ages are productive of these advantages to society; but we have already ac knowledged, and it cannot be denied, that they are al so attended with many unhappy effects, when we view the absurdities intermixed with thc systems of religion which prevailed among most of the nations of antiquity, we cannot help lamenting that so noble a principle of human nature as our religious sentiments should be liable to such gross perversmn; and when we view the effects which they produce on the morals of mankind, and the forms of society, though we allow them to have been upon the whole rather beneficial than hurtful, yet we cannot but observe, that their unfavourable effects are by far more numerous than if they had been better directed, what unhappy effects, for instance, · have been produced by salse notions concerning the condition of human souls in a future state. Various na tions have imagined that the scenes and objects of the world of spirits are only a shadow; representation of the things 
of 
the present world. Not only the sorls of men, according to them, inhabit those regions; all the inferior animals and vegetables, and even inanimate bodies that are killed or destroyed here, are supposed to pass into that visionary world; and, existing there in unsubftantial forms, to execute the same functions, or feive the same purposee, as on earth. such are the ideas of futurity that were entertained by the inhabitants of Guinea. And by these ideas they were induced, when a king or great man died among them, to provide for his comfortable accommodation in the world • of spirits, by burying with him meat and drink for his subsistence, ssaves to attend and serve him, and wives with whom he might still enjoy the pltasures of love. His faithful subjects vied with each other in offering, 
one a servant, another a wife, a third a son or daughter, to be sent to the other world in company with the monarch, that they might there be employed in his service. In New spain, in the issand cf Java, in the kingdom of Benen, and among the inhabitants of is dostan, similar practises on the same occasion, owing no doubt to similar notions of futurity, have been prevalent. But such practises as tllese cannot be viewed with greater contempt on account of the opinions which have given rise to them, than horror on account of their unhappy effects 
on 
the condition of those among whom they prevail. A lively impression of the enjoyments to be obtained in a future state, together with some very false or incorrect notions concerning the qualities or actions which were to entitle the de 
parting soul to admission into the scene of those enjoy 
ments, is said to have produced equaliy tinhappy 
effects 
among the Japanese. They not only bribed their priests to solicit for them; but looking upon the enjoyments of the present life with disgust or contempt, they used to dash themselves from precipices, or cut their throats, in order to get to paradise as soon as possible. Various other superstitions subsisting among rude na tions might here be enumerated, as instances of the perversion of the religious principles of the human heart, which render them injurious to virtue and happiness. The austerities which have been practssed, chiefly among rude nations, as means of propitiating superior powers, are especially worthy of notice. — when the favourite idol of the Banians is carried in solemn procession, some devotees prostrate themselves. on the ground, that the chariot in which the idol is carried may run over them; others, with equal enthu siasm, dash themselves on spikes fastened on purpose to the car. Innumerable are the ways of torture which have been invented and practised on themselves by men ignorantly striving to recommend themselves to the 
favour 
of heaven. These we lament as instances in which religious sentiments have been fo ill directed by the influence of imagination, and unenlightened erring reason, as to produce unfavourable effects on the human character, and oppose the happiness of social life— — we bave argued, that even the most absurd systems of religion that have prevailed in the world, have been upon the whole rather beneficial than injurious 
te' 
the dignity and happiness of human nature; yet if it shall not appear, as we proceed farther in our comparative view of the effects of religion on society, that others have been attended with happier effects than these superstitions which belong to the rude ages of society, we may scarce venture to brand the infidel with the appellation of 
fool, 
for resusing to give his assent to religious doctrines, or to act under their influence. 
2d, The polythessm of the Greeks and Romans,, and cither heathen nations in a similar state of civsliza tion, we have already considered as being, upon the whole, rather favourable than unfavourable to virtue; but we must not partially conceal its defects. The vicious characters of the deities which they worshipped, the incorrect notions which they entertained concermng the moral government cf the universse and a future 
retribution, 
the absurdity of their rites and ceremonies,, and the criminal practises which were intermixed with them, must have altogether had a tendency to pervert both the reasoning and the moral principles of the human mind. The debaucheries of the monarch of the gods, and the fidelity with which his example in that respect was followed by the whole crowd of the inferior deities, did, we know, dispose the devout heathen, when he felt the same passions which had 'asserted thejr power over the gods, to gratify them without scruple. It is a truth, however, and we will not attempt to deny or conceal it, that the genius of the polytheism of the Greeks and Romans was friendly to the arts; to such of them especially as are raised to excellence by the vi goious exertion of a fine imagination; music, poetry, seuspture, architecture, and pa nting, all of these arts appear to have been considerably indebted for that per section to whicn. they attained, especially among the. Greeks, to the splendid and ianciful system of mythology. 
which was received among, that ingenious people. — 
