time as he has been declared guilty, if it shall be deem ed absolutely necessary to arrest a man, every kind of rigour employed, not necessary to secure his person, ought to be severely repressed by the law. 
X No person shall be molested for his opinions, even such as are religious, provided that the manifestation of those opinions does not disturb the public order esta blished by the law. 
XI The free communication of thought, and of opinion, is one of the most precious rights of man. Every citizen, therefore, may freely speak, write, and publish, his sentiments; subject, however, to answer for the abuse of that liberty, in cafes determined by the law. 
XII The guarantee of the Rights of Man and ci tizens, involves a necessity of 
public force : 
this force is then instituted for the advantage of all, and not for the particular utility of tliofe to whom it is confided. 
XIII For the maintenance of public force, and for the expenses of administration, a common contribution is indispensably necessary : this contribution should be equally divided amongst all the citizens, in proportion to their abilities. 
XIV Every citizen lias a right, by himself, or by his representatives, to decide concerning the necessity of the public contribution; to consent to it freely; to look after the employment of it; to determine the quantity, the distribution, the collection, and duration. 
XV The society has a right to demand from every public agent an account of his administration. 
XVI Every society, in which the guarantee of rights is not assured, nor the separation of powers deter mined, lias 
no conßitution. 
XVII Property being a right inviolable and sacred, no person can be deprived of it, except when the pub lic necessity, legally ascertained, shall evidently require it, and on condition of a just and previous·indemnisica tion. 
The constitution guarantees, as natural and civil rights, 
1. That all citizens are admissible to places and employments without any distinction, but that of ability and virtue. 
2. That all contributions shall be divided equally among all the citizens, in proportion to their means. 
3. That the same crimes shall be subject to the same punishments, without any distinction of persons. 
The constitution in like manner guarantees, as natu ral and civil rights, 
Liberty to all men of going, staying, or departing, without being arrested, or detained, but according to the forms prescribed by the conststution. 
Liberty to all men cf speaking, writing, printing, and " publishing their thoughts, without having their writings subjected to any examination or inspection be fore publication and of exercising the religious wor ship to which they are attached. 
Liberty to all citizens of assembling peaceably, and without arms, complying with the laws of police. 
Xsiberty of addressmg to all constitutional authorities petitions individually signed. 
The ccnstitution guarantees the inviolability of pro perty, or a just and previous indemnity for that of which public necessity, legally proved, shall require the sacrisice«. 
A 
public instruction shall be created and organised, common to all citizens, gratuitous with regard to those parts of tuition indispensable sor all men, and of which tile establishment shall be gradually distributed in a pro portion combined with the division of the kingdom. * 
"The kingdom is one and indivisible; ” its territory, sor administration, is distributed into 83 departments, each department into districts, each district into cantons. 
Those are French citizens, 
who are born in France, of a French sather; 
who having been born in France of a foreign fa 
there, have sixed their residence in the kingdom; 
who having been born in a foreign country, of a 
French sather, have returned to settle in France, and have taken the civic oath: 
In sine, who having been born in a foreign country, being descended in whatever degree srom a Frenchman or a Frenchwoman, who have lest their country srom religious motives, come to reside in France, and take the civic oath. 
The right of French citizenship is lost, 
ist, 
By naturalisation in a foreign country; 
2dly, By being condemned to penalties which involve 
the civic degradation, provided the person condemned be not reinstated; 
ßdly, By a sentenee of contumacy, providéd the sentence be not annulled;. 
4thly, By initiation into any foreign order or body which supposes either proofs of nobility " or distinctions of birth, or requires religious vows.” 
"The law considers marriage only as a civil contract.” 
The sovereignty is one, indivisible, " inalienable, and imprescriptible, ” and it belongs to the nation : no · section of the people or individual, can arrogate the exercise of it. 
The nation, from which alone flow all powers, cannot exercise them but by delegation. 
The French conststution is representative : the representatives arc the legissative body and the king. 
The National Assembly, forming the legissative body, is permanent, and consists of one chamber only. 
It shall be formed by new elections, every two years the 
legissative body cannot be dissolved by the king. 
The number of representatives to the legissative' body shall be 745, 011 account of the 83 departments' of which the kingdom is composed;; independent, of those that may be granted to the colonies. 
The representatives shall be distributed among the 83 departments, according to the three proportions or' land, of population, and the contribution direct: 
Of the 745 representatives 247 are attached to the land. Of these each department shall nominate three, · except the department of Palis, which shall nominate only one. 
Two hundred and forty-nine representatives are attached to the population. The total mass of the active population of the kingdom is divided into 249 parts, and each department nominates as many of the, deputies as it contains parts of the population. 
Two hundred and forty-nine representatives are at tachedtothe contribution direct. The sum total of the direct contribution bf the kingdom is likewise divided into 249 parts; and each department nominates as many deputies as it pays parts of the contribution. 
