together , gradually expanding themselves, having thick footstalks;; grow from one to two feet high, or more, in length and breadth, spreading all round : 'amidst them rise the flower stems, which are garnished at each joint by one leaf, and are of strong and expeditious .growth, attaining their full height in June, when they flower; and are succeeded by large triangular seeds, ripening in August. some plants of each sort merit cub ture in gardens for variety; they will effect a singula rity with their luxuriant foliage, spikes, and flowers : and as medical plants, they demand culture both for private and public use. 
They are generally propagated by seeds sowed su au tumn soon after they are ripe, or early in the spring, in any open bed of light deep earth; remarking, those intended for medical use should generally be sowed where they are to remain, that the roots, being not disturbed by removal, may grow large. scatter the seeds thinly, either by broad cast all over the surface, and raked well in; or in shallow drills a foot and half distance, covering them near an inch deep. The plants will rise in the spring, but not flower till the second or third year : when they, however, are come up two or three inches high, thin them to eight or ten inches, and clear out all weeds; though those dessgned always to stand should afterwards be hoed out to a foot and a half or two seet distance : observing, if any arc required sor the pleasure ground, c. for variety, they should be transplanted where they are to remain in autumn, when their leaves decay, or early in spring, before they shoot: the others remaining where sowed, must have the ground kept clean between them; and in autumn, when the leaves and stalks decay, cut them down, and ssightly dig the ground between the rows of plants repeating the same work every year.. The roots remaining, they increase in size annually : and in the fécond or third veal many of them will shoot up stalks, flower, and perfect seeds; and in three or four years tile roots will be arrived to a large size; though older roots are generally preferable for medical use.. 
In Mr bell’s Travels we have an account of some curious particulars relating to the culture of rhubarb. He tells us, that the best rhubarb grows in that part 
of 
Eastern Tartary called 
Mongalia, 
which now serves as a boundary between Russia and China. The marmots contribute greatly to the culture of the rhubarb, wherever you see io or 20 plants growing, you are sure of finding several burrows under the shades of their broad sp reading leaves. Perhaps they may sometimes eat the leaves and roots of this plant; however, it is probable the manure they leave about the roots contributes not a little to its increase; and their casting up the earth, makes it shoot out young buds and multiply. This plant does not run, and spread itself, like clocks and others of the same species; but grows in tufts, at uncertain distances, as if the seeds had been dropped with design. It appears that thc mon gals never accounted it worth cultivating; but that the world is obliged to the marmots for the quantities scattered, at random, in many parts of this country: : whatever part of tile ripe seed happens to be blown among the thick grass, can very seldom reach the ground, but must there wither and die; whereas, should it shall among the loose earth thrown up by the marmots, it immediately takes root, and 
produces 
a new plant. 
After digging and gathering the rhubarb, the mon gals cut the large roots into small pieces, in order to make them dry more readily. In the middle of every piece they scoop a hole, through which a cord is drawn, in order to suspend them in any convenient place. They hang them for the most part about their tents, and sometimes on the horns of their sheep. This is a most pernicious custom, as it destroys some of the best part or the root : sor all about the hole is rotten and useless; whereas, were people rightly informed how to dig and dry this plant, there would not be one pound of refuse in an hundred; which would save a great deal of trouble and expense, that much diminish the profits on this commodity.. At present, the dealers in this article think these improvements not worthy of their attention, as their gains are more considerable on this than on any other branch of trade. Perhaps the government may hereafter think it proper to make some regulations with regard to this matter. 
Two sorts of rhubarb are met with in the shops. ss he sirst is imported from Turkey and Russia, in roundish pieces freed from the bark, with a hole through the middle of each; they are externally of a yellowish colour, and on cutting appear variegated with lively reddish streaks. 1 he other, which is less esteemed, comes immediately from the East Indies, in longish pieces, harder, heavier, and more compact than the foregoing. The first sort, unless kept very dry, is apt to grow mouldy and worm eaten; the second is less subject to these inconveniences. some of the more mdustrious artists are said to fill up the worm holes with certain mixtures, and to colour the outside of the damaged pieces with powder of the finer sorts of rhubarb, and sometimes with cheaper materials : this is often so nicely done, as effectually to impose upon the buyer, unless he very carefully examines each piece. The marks of good rhubarb are, that it be firm and solid, but not flinty; that it be eastly pulverable, and appear, when powdered, of a fine bright yellow colour j that, upon being chewed, it impart to the spittle a saffron tinge, without proving siimy or mucilaginous m the mouth. Its taste is subacrid, bitteriih, and somewhat astringent; the smell lightly aromatic. 
Rhubarb is a mild cathartic, which operates without violence or irritation, and may be given with safety even to pregnant women and children. - .Besides its purgative quality, it is celebrated for an astringent one, by which it strengthens the tone of the stomach and mtestines, and proves useful in diarrhoeas and disorders proceeding from a laxity of the sibres. Rhubarb in substance operates more powerfully as a cathartic than any of the preparations of it. watery tinctures purge more than the spirituous ones; whilst the latter contain in greater perfection the aromatic, astringent, and corro borating virtues of the rhubarb. The dose, when intended as a purgative, is from a scruple to a dram or more. 
The Turkey rhubarb is, among ns,, universally preferred to the East-india sort, though this last is for lome purposes at least equal to the others lt ls mani sestly more astringent, but has somewhat Iess of an aromatic flavour. Tinctures drawn from both with rectified spirit have nearly the same taste; on distilling 
