speeches you made on thc 9th, 12th, and 14th of July to the deputations of the constituent assembly, show what were your intentions; and the massacres of the s hnille ries rise in evidence against you. — What have you to answer 
Louis. ' “I 
was master at that time to order the troops to march; but I never had an intention of shed · ding blood.” 
Prey. “
After these events, and in spite of thc promises which von mafic on the 15th in the constituent assem bly, and on the 1 7th in the townhouse of Paris, you have persisted in your projects against national liberty. You long eluded the execution of the decrees of the 
ι 
lth of August, respecting the abolition of personal servitude, the feudal government, and tithes : you long refused acknowledging the rights of man; you doubled the number of the lifeguards, and called the regiment of Flanders to Versailles : you permitted, iu orgies held before your eyes, the national cockade to be trampled under foot, the white cockade to be hoist ed, and the nation to be slandered. At last, you rendered necessary a fresh insurrection, occasioned the death of several citizens, and did not change your language till after your guards had been defeated, when you renewed your perfidious promises. 'she proofs of these facts arc in your Gbservations of the 18th of september, in the decrees of the 11th of August, in the minutes of the constituent assembly, in the events of Versailles of the 5th and 6th of October, and in the conversation you had on the same day with a deputation of the constituent assembly, when you told them you would enlighten yourself with their councils, and never recede from them. — what have you to answer ?” 
Louis. 
“I have made the observations which I thought just 011 the two first heads. As to the cockade, it is salse; it did not happen in my presence.” 
Prof. “
You took an oath at the federation of the 14th of July, which you did not keep. You soon tried to corrupt the public opinion, with the assistance of Talon who acted in Paris, and Mirabeau who was to have excited counter revolutionarv movements in the provinces. — what have you to answer?” 
Louis. 
"I do not know what happened at that time; but the whole is anterior to my acceptance of the constitution.” 
Prof. 
"You lavished millions of money to effect this corruption, and you would even use popularity as a means of enslaving the people. These 
facts 
are the result of a memorial of Talon, on which you have made your marginal comments in your own handwriting, and of a letter which Laporte wrote to you on the 19th of April; in which, recapitulating a conversation he had with Rivarol, he told you, that the millions which you had been prevailed upon to throw away had been productive of nothing. For a long time you had meditated on a plan of eseape. A memorial was delivered to you on the 28th of February, which pointed out the means sor you to effect it; you approve of it by marginal notes. — what have you to answer ?” 
Louis. “
I felt no greater pleasure than that of re lieving the needy : this proves no design.” 
Prof 
"On the 28th a great number of the nobles and military came into your apartments in the castle of the Thuilleries to favour that escape: : wanted to quit Paris on the 10th of April to go to st Clair, — what have you to answer?” 
Louis. 
"i his accusation is absurd.” 
Prof “
But the resistance of the citizens made you sensible that their distrust was great; you endeavoured to discard it by communicating to the constituent' assembly a letter, which you addressed to the agents of the nation near foreign powers, to announce to them that you had freely accepted the constitutional articles, which had been presented to you; and, notwithstanding, on the ist you took flight with a salse passport. You lest behind a protest against these selfsame constitutional articles; you ordered the ministers to sign none of the acts issued by the National Assembly; and you forbade thc minister of justice to deliver up the seals of state. The public money was lavished to insure the success of this treachery, and the public force was to protect it, under the orders of Bouille, who shortly before had been charged with the massacre of Nancy, and to whom you wrote on this head, " to take care of his popularity, because it would be of service to you.” These facts aie proved by the memorial of the 23d of febru ary, with marginal comments in your own handwriting;; your declaration of the 20th of June, wholly in your own handwriting;; your letter of the 4th of september 1790 to Bouille; and by a note of the latter, in which he gives you an account of the use he made of 993, 000 livres, given by you, and employed partly in trepanning the troops who were to escort you. — what have you to answer ?” 
Lows. 
“I have no knowledge whatever of the me morial of the 23d of February. As to what relates to my journey to Varennes, I appeal to my declaration to the commissaries of the constituent assembly at that period.” 
Prof. 
"After your detention at Varennes, the exercise of the executive power was sora moment suspended in your hands, and yon again formed a conspiracy. On the 17th of July the blôod of citizens was shed in the Champ de Mars. A letter, in your, own handwriting, written in 1790 to Lafayette, proves that a crirninal coalition fubsisted between you and Lafayette, to which Mirabeau acceded. The revision began under these cruel auspices; all kinds of corruptions were made use of. You have paid for libels, pamphlets, and newspapers, designed to corrupt the public opinion, to dis credit the aslignats, and to support the cause of the emigrants. The registers of septeuil show what immense sums have been made nse of in these liberticide manœuvres. — what have yon to answer?” 
Louis. 
“what happened on the 17th of July has nothing at all to do with me. I know nothing of it.” 
Pre“ 
“seemed to accept the constitution on the 14th of kseptember; your speeches announced an intention of supporting it, and you were busy in overturning it, even before it was completed A convention was entered into at Pilnitz on the 24th of July, between Leopold of Austria and frederic william of branden burgh, who pledged themselves to re erect in France the throne of 'absolute monarchy, and you were silenl upon this convention till the moment when it was known; by all Europe. — what have you to answer?” 
Lows. 
“I made it known as soon as it came to my knowledge; besides, everything that refers to this subject concerns the minister.” 
