judices on 
the altar of their country. He concluded an animated address with these words, “Let all who hold in equal detestation a republic and two chambers, and who wish to maintain the constitution as it is, rife!” The words were scarcely pronounced when the whole assembly started from their seats. Men of all parties solemnly embraced each other, and protested their adherence to the constitution. A deputation announced this happy event to the king; who immediately came and congratulated them in a short speech, which was leceived with infinite app’ause. The only good effect, however, produced by this temporary agreement was, that the sestival of the 14th of July, which was celebrated with the usual magnificence, passed over in tranquillity. 
On the 25th of July, the duke of Brunswick issued at Coblentz his celebrated manifesto. It declared the purpose of the intended invasion of France to be the restoration of the French king to full authority. It de clared the national guard of France responfible for the preservation of tranquillity; and threatened with the pu nishment of death, as rebels to their king, those who should appear in arms against the allied powers. All men holding offices, civil or military, were threatened in the same manner, as well as the inhabitants of all cities. The city of Paris in particular, and the national assembly, were declared responsible for every insult which might be offered to the royal family. It was declared, that if they were not immediately placed in safety, the allies were resolved to inflict " on those who should deserve it the most exemplary and ever memorable avenging punishments, by giving up the city of Paris to military execution, and exposing it to total destruction; and the rebels who should be guilty of illegal reslstance should suffer the punishments which they should have deserved.” This sanguinary and imprudent manifesto operated as a warrant for the destruction of the unfortunate Louis XVI It left no middle party in the na tion. All who wished to preserve freedom in any form, and all who loved the independence of their country, were instantly united. At the same time, the reproach es cast on the king by the Jacobins now gained univer sal credit. The kings of Prussia and of Hungary told the French nation, that their monarch was secretly hostile to the constitution; and the restoration of him and his family to despotic power was made the sole pre tence for a bloody and dangerous war. 
The republican party saw the advantage which they had now gained, and resolved upon the deposition of the king. The chief engine which they meant to employ in this service consisted of about 1500 men, who had come to Paris at the period of the confederation on the 14th of July, and therefore called 
faderes, 
and who were also sometimes denominated 
Marfiillms, 
from the place from which the greater number of them came. Next to these, dependence was placed in the populace of the suburbs of the capital. Thc designs of the republicans were not unknown to the court, and both parties were forming plans of operation. It is said that the royal party intended that the king and his family should suddenly leae the capital, and proceed to as great a distance as the constitution permitted. The republicans are said to have intended to seize the person of the king, and to confine him in the castle of vin cennes till a national convention should decide upon his fate. Both allegations are probably true. Every motive which can influence the mind of man must have induced Louis to wish to be at a distance from the factious and sanguinary capital. And the subsequent conduct of the republicans authorise us to believe them capable of the worst crime that was laid to their charge. 
Various charges had been brought forward in the assembly against Lafayette, and the 8th of August was appointed for their ducuffion. In the mean time, on the 3d of August, Petion the mayor, at the head of a deputation from the sections of Paris, appeared at the bar, and in a solemn speech demanded the deposition of the king. The discuslion of the accusation against Lafayette was considered as a trial of strength between the parties : he was acquitted, however, by a majority of nearly 200; and the republican party, despairing of carrying their point by a vote f the national assembly, •resolved to have recourse to insurrection and force. 
On the evening of the 9th of August, about 1500 gentlemen, officers of the army, and others, repaired to the palace, resolved to protect the royal family or to die in their defence : added to these were 70© swiss guards, with a body of cavalry amounting to about 
I 
ooo. Mandat, the commander of the national guards, a man who was firmly attached to the constitution, had procured 2400 of that body and 12 pieces of cannon, with such a force, it has been generally thought that, by vigorous and steady councils, the palace, which is a kind of castle, might have been successfully defended; and what is now called a revolution might have born the name of a rebellion. Meanwhile the assembly de clared its sittings permanent. Petion was at the palace late on the evening of the 9th. some apprehensions were entertained, or pretended to be entertained, forhia safety (for the whole of this business was, on the part of the republicans, the most infernal plot), and a deputation from the assembly brought him away. At midnight the toçlin or alarm bell was founded, and thc drums beat to arms through the city. At this instant a number of the most active leaders of the republican party assembled, and elected a new common council or 
commune. 
The persons thus irregularly chosen inssantly took possession of the common hall, and drove out the lawful members; who, with that weakness with which men are apt to shrink from stations of responsibility in pe rilous times, readily gave place to the usurpers. The new commune sent repeated messages to M. Mandat, requiring his attendance upon important business. He was occupied in arranging the troops in the best order a round the palace; but suspecting nothing, he went to the common Lall, and was there astonished to sind a different assembly from what he expected. He was a bruptly accused of a plot to massacre the people, and ordered to prison; but as he deseended the stairs, lie was shot with a pistol, and santerre was appointed in his stead to command the national guard. 
On this eventful night no person in the palace went to bed. About six o’clock in the morning of the 10th the king deseended into the gardens to review the troops. He was received with shouts of 
Vive le roi 
excepting from the artillery, who shouted 
Vive la nation. 
The king returned to the palace, and the multitude continued to collect. The national guard seemed undetermined about what they were to do, as they assembled in divisions 
near 
thc palace; and had a steady re 
