forest 
trees 
were unable to vvithstand thc fury of the tempest. The hail was composed of enormous, solid, and angular pieces of ice, some of them weighing from eight to ten ounces. The country people, beaten down in the fields on their way to church, amidst this concuf sion of the elements, concluded that the last day was arrived; and scarcely attempting to extricate themselves, lay despairing and half suffocated amidst the water and the mud, expecting the immediate dissolution of all things. The storm was irregular in its devastations. while several rich districts were laid entirely waste, some intermediate portions of country were comparatively little injured. One of 60 square leagues had not 
a 
single ear of corn or a fruit of any kind left. Of the 66 parishes in the district of Pontoise, 43 were entirely desolated, and of the remaining 23 some lost two thirds and others half their harvest. The isie of France, being the district in which Paris is situated, and the or leannois, appear to have suffered chiefly. The damage there, upon a moderate estimate, amounted to 80, 000, 000 of livres, or between three and four millions sterling. such a calamity must at any period have been severely felt; but occurring on the eve of a great political revolution, and amidst a general scarcity throughout Europe, it was peculiarly unfortunate, and gave more embarrassment to the government than per haps any other event whatever. Numbers of families found it necessary to contract their mode of living for a time, and to dismiss their servants, who were thus left destitute of bread. Added to the public discontent and political diffensions, it produced sucll an effect upon the people in general, that the nation seemed to have changed its character; and inrtead of that levity by which it had ever been distinguished, a settled gloom now seemed fixed on every countenance. 
The spring of the year 1789 was a period of much political anxiety in France. The superior orders wished to reduce the power of the crown, but were jealous of their own privileges, and determined to retain them; while the popular philosophers and others were endeavouring to render them odious, and to rouse the people to a love of freedom. still, however, the great body of the common people remained careless spectators of the struggle and unconseious of the approaching commotion. such was their indifference, that sew of them took the trouble even to attend and vote at the elections of the deputies to the ftates general. In many places, where a thousand voters were expected, not fifty came forward; but such of them as did appear showed that a seed was sown which might one day rise into important fruits. In the instructions which they gave to their deputies, the British constitution was in general the model of what they wished their government to be. They demanded equal taxation, the abolition of 
letters de cachet 
or arbitrary imprisonment, the responsibility of ministers, and the extinction of the feudal privileges of the nobles; but they wished that the whole three orders of the state should sit and vote in one house, well knowing that their nobility were not prepared to act the moderate part of a British house of lords. The nobles, on the contrary, although willing to renounce some of their pecuniary privileges, and to sacrifice the power of the crown, were most decisively resolved neither to surrender their feudal prerogatives nor the right of sitting in three separate affembliesj by means of which each 
of the orders could 
easily resist 
the encroachments 
of the other two. Mr Neckar has been improperly cen sured for not deciding this last important question pre vious to the meeting of the states gencral : but it must be observed, that the very purpose of calling that assembly vzas to overturn the unjust privileges of the higher orders through its medium, and without any di rect interposition on the part of the ministers. Had the king positively decided in favour of three chambers, the nobles and the clergy would have retained all those ancient abuses established in their own favour, of which it was his wish to deprive them, and the crown and its prerogatives would have been the only objects of sacri siee. It was therefore thought saser to leave the 
tiers etat 
to sight its own battle : nor was it yet imagined that the commons of France, depressed and poor, and dispersed by situation over a multitude of provinces, could ever unite in enterprises dangerous to the sovereign. 
The states had been summoned to meet at Versailles on the 27th of April, and most of the deputies arrived at that time; but the elections sor the city of Paris not. being concluded, the king deferred the commencement of their sessions till the 4th of May. During this period, the members, left in idleness, began to find out and form acquaintance with each other. Among others, a sew members from Brittany (Bretagne) form ed themselves into a club, into which they gradually ad mitted many other deputies that were found to be zea lous for the popular canse, and also many persons who were not deputies. This society, thus originally esta blished at Versailles, was calied the 
Comité Breton; 
and was one day destined, under the appellation of the 
fa cobin Club, 
to give laws to France, and to diffuse terror and alarm throughout Europe. On the other side, the aristocratic party established conferences at the house of Madame Polignac, for the purpose, it is said, of uniting the nobles and the clergy. 
An event occurred at this time which all parties ascri bed to some malicious motive. In the populous suburb of st Antoine, a M. Reveillon carried on a great paper manufactory. A false report was spread that he intended to lower the wages of his workmen, and that he had declared bread was too good for them, and that they might subsist very well on potato flour. A corn motion was raised, he was burnt in effigy, and his house was thereafter burnt and pillaged by the mob, who were not dispersed till the military had been called in, and much carnage ensued. The popular party asserted that the commotion had been artfully excited by the party of the queen and the Count D’artois, to afford a pretence for bringing great bodies of the military to the neighbourhood to overawe the states-general, or induce the king more decisively to resolve on assembling that body at Versailles, in preference to Paris, where they and the popular minister M. Neckar wished it to be held. 
o11 the 4th of May the states-general assembled at Versailles. They commenced business by going in a solemn procession, preceded by the clergy, and followed by the king, according to ancient custom, to church, to perform an act of devotion. The nobles were ar rayed in a splendid robe, and they and the higher cler gy glittered in gold and jewels. The commons ap peared in black, the dress belonging to the law. The 
