refugees , a term at sirst applied to the French Protestants, who, by the revocation of the edict of Nantz, were conslrained to fly from persccution, and take refuge in foreign countries. since that time, however, it has been extended to all such as leave their country in times of distress; and hence, since the revolt of the Britisil colonies in America, we have frequently heard of 
American refugees. 
REGALE, a magnificent entertainment or treat, given to ambassadors and other persons of distinction, to entertain or do them honour. 
It is usual in Italy, at the arriwil of a traveller of eminence, to send him a regale, that is, a present of sweetmeats, fruits,, c. by way of refreshment. 
REGALIA, in law, the rights and prerogatives of 
a 
king. see Prerogative. 
Regalia is also used for the apparatus of a coronation; as the crown, the sceptre with the cross, that with the dove, st edward’s staff, the globe, and the crb with the cross, four several swords, c— — re galia of scotland were deposited in the castle of edin burgli in the year 1707, in what is called the 
Jewel Off ce. 
This room was lately opened by some commise sioners appointed by the king, when the large chest in which it is supposed they were placed was found; but as it has not, that we have heard of, been opened, it is impossible to say whether they be there or not. It is very generally thought they were carried to the Tower of London in the reign of Queen Anne; and a crown is there shown which is called the scotch crown. ave do not believe, however, that that is the real crown of scotland; and think it probable that the scotch regalia are in the chest which was lately found. If they are not there, they must have been taken away by stealth, and either destroyed or melted down, for we do not believe that they are in the Tower of London. 
Lord 
of 
REGALITY, in scots law. see Law, b CLVIII 4. 
Court 
of 
REGARD. see 
forest courts. 
REGARDANT, ill heraldry, signisies looking behind;; it is used for a lion, or other beast, with his face turned towards his tail. 
REGARDER, an ancient officer of the king’s fo rest, sworn to make the regard of the forest every year; that is, to take a view of its limits, to inquire into all offences and defaults committed by the foresters within the forest, and to observe whether all the offi cers executed their respective duties. see 
Foresî laws. 
REGATA, or Regatta, a species of amusement peculiar to the republic of Venice. This spectacle has the power of exciting the greatest emotions of the heart, admiration, enthusiasm, a sense of glory, and the whole train of our best feelings. The grand regata is only exhibited on particular occasions, as the visits of foreign princes and kings at Venice. 
It is difficult to give a just idea of the ardour that the notice of a 
regata 
spreads among all classes of the inha bitants of Venice. Proud of the exclusive privilege of giving such a spectacle, through the wonderful local cir cumslances of their city, they are highly delighted with making preparations a long tiny before, in order to contribute all they can towards the perfection and enjoyment of the spectacle. A thousand interests are formed and augmented every day; parties in favour of the different 
competitors who 
are 
known 
j 
the protection 
of young 
noblemen given to the gondoliers in their servsce; the desire of honours and rewards in the aspirants; and, in thc midst of all this, that ingenious national industry, which awakes the Venetians from their habitual indolence, to derive advantage from the business and agita tion of the moment : all these circumstances united give to the numerous inhabitants of this lively city a degree of spirit and animation which render it during that time a delightful abode in the eyes of the philosopher and the stranger. Crowds of people flock from the adjacent parts, and traveliers joyfully repair to th.13 scene of gaiety and pleasure. 
Although it is allowable for any man to go and in scribe his name in the list of combatants until the fixed number is complete, it will not be amiss to remark one thing, which has relation to more ancient times. The state of a gondolier * is of much consideration among the people; which is very natural, that having been the primitive condition of the inhabitants of this country. But, besides this general consideration, there are among them some families truly distinguished and respected by their equals, whose antiquity is acknowledged, and who, on account of a. succesiion of virtuous men, able in their profession, and honoured for the prizes they have carried oft in these contests, form the body of noble gondoliers; often more worthy of that title than the higher order of nobility, who only derive their honours from the merit of their ancestors, or from their own riches. The consideration for those families is carried so far, that, in the disputes frequently arising among the gondoliers in their ordinary passage of the canals, we sometimes see a quarrel instantly made up, by the simple interposition of a third person, who has chanced to be of this reverend body. They are rigid with respect to mis alliances in their families, and they endeavour recipro cally to give aud take their wives among those of their own rank. But vve must remark here, with pleasure, that these dissinctions infer no inequality of condition, nor admit any oppression of inferiors, being founded solely on laudable and virtuous opinions. Distinctions derived srom fortune only, are those which always out rage nature, and often virtue. 
In general, the competitors at the great regatas are chosen from among these families of reputation. As soon as they are sixed upon for this exploit, they spend the intermediate time in preparing themselves for it, by a daily assiduous and fatiguing exercise. If they are in servsce, their masters during that time not only give them their liberty, but also augment their wages. This custom would seem to indicate, that they look upon them as persons consecrated to the honour of the nation, and under a sort of obligation to contribute to its glory. 
At last the great day arrives. Their relations assemble together : they encourage the heroes, by calling to their minds the records of their families; the women present the oar, beseeching them, in an epic tone, to remember that they are the sons of famous men, wliosc steps they will be expected to follow : this they do with as much solemnity as the spartan women presented the shield to their sons, bidding them either return with or upon it. Religion, as practised among the lower class of people, has its share in the preparations for this enterprise. They cause masses to be said; they make vows to some particular church; and they arm their boats for the contest with the images of those saint 
who are most in vogue. sorcerers are not 
forgotten 
