proper measures to prevent their being snrprised and overwhelmed by a superior force; but, before the horrors of war commenced, the great reformer Luther died in peace at Ayselben, the place of his nativity, in 1546. 
The emperor and the pope had mutually resolved on the destruction of all who should dare to oppose the council of Trent. The meeting of it was to serve as a signal for taking up arms; and accordingly its deliberations were scarcely begun in 1546, when the Protestants perceived undoubted signs of the approaching storm, and a formidable union betwixt the emperor and pope, which threatened to crush and overwhelm them at once. This year indeed there had been a new conference at Ratiibon upon the old subject of accom modating differences in religion; but from the manner in which the debates were carried on, it plainly ap peared that these differences could only be decided in the field of battle. The council of Trent, in the mean time, promulgated their decrees; while the reformed princes, in the diet of Ratishon, protested against their authority, and were on that account proscribed By the emperor, who raised an army to reduce them to obedience. see 
Father paul’s iiiftory of the Council of Trent, 
and our articles Paul (Father), and Trent. 
The elector of saxony and the landgrave 
of 
Hesse led their forces into Bavaria against the emperor, and cannonaded his camp at Ingoldstalt. It was supposed that this would bring on an engagement, which would probably have been advantageous to the cause of the reformed; but this was prevented, chiefly by the per sidy of Maurice duke of saxony, who invaded the dominions of his uncle. Divisions were also fomented among the confederate princes, by the dissimulation of the emperor; and France failed in paying the snbsidy which had been promised by its monarch : all which so discouraged the heads of the Protestant party, that their army soon dispersed, and the elector of saxony was obliged to direct his march homeward. But he was pursued by the emperor, who made several forced marches, with a view to destroy his enemy before he should have time to recover his vigour. The two armies met near Mühlberg, on the Elbe, on the 24th of April 1547; and, after a bloody action, the elector was entirely defeated, and himself taken prisoner— — who had so basely betrayed him, was now declared elector of saxony; and by his entreaties Philip landgrave of Hesse, the other chief of the prote stants, was persuaded to throw himself on the mercy of the emperor, and to implore his pardon. To this he conscnted, relying on the promise of Charles for obtaining forgiveness, and being restored to liberty; but, not withftandiug these expectations, he was unjustly detained prisoner, by a scandalous violation of the most solemn convention. It is sald that the emperor retracted his promise, and deluded this unhappy prince by the ambiguity of two German words. History in deed can scarce afford a parallel to the perfidious, mean spirited, and despotic behaviour of the emperor in the present cafe. After having received in pub lic the humble submission of the prince on his knees, and after having set him at liberty by a solemn treaty, he had him arrested anew without any reason, nay, without any pretence, and kept him close prisoner for several years, when Maurice remonstrated 
against this new confinement, the emperor answeredj. 
that he had never promised that the landgrave should not be imprisoned anew, but only that he should be exempted from perpetual imprisonment;; to support this affertson, he produced the treaty, in which his ministers had persidiousiy foisted 
ewiger gefangnis, 
which signisies a " perpetual prison” ” of ««zyer 
gofangnis, 
which signisies " any prison.” This, however, is contested by some historians. 
The affairs of the Protestants now seemed to be de sperate. In the diet of Augshurg, which was soon after called, the emperor required the Protestants to leave the decision of these religious disputes to the wisdom of the council which was to meet at Trent. The greatest part of the members conscnted to this proposal, being convinced by the powerful argument of an imperial army, which was at hand to dispel the darkness from the eyes of such as might otherwise have been blind to the force of charles’s reasoning. However, this general submission did not produce the effect which was expected from it. A plague which broke out, or was said to do so, in the city, caused the greatest part of the bishops to retire to Bologna; by which means the council was in effect diffoived, nor could all the entreaties and remonstrances of the emperor prevail upon the pope to re affemble it without delay. During this interval, therefore, the emperor judged it necessary to fall upon some method of ac commodating the religious differences, and maintaining peace until the council so long expected should be finally obtained, with this view he ordered Julius Pelugius bishop of Naumberg, Michael sidonius, a creature of the pope, and John Agricola, a native of Ayselben, to draw up a formulary which might serve as a rule of faith and worship, till the council should be assembled : but as this was only a temporary expedient, and had not the force of a permanent or perpetual institution, it thence obtained the name of the 
Interim. 
This project of Charles was formed partly with 
a 
dessgn to vent his resentment against the pope, and partly to answer other political purposes. It contain ed all the essential doctrines of the church of Rome, though considerably softened by the artful terms which were employed, and which were quite different from those employed before and after this period by the council of Trent. There was even an affected ambiguity in many of the expressions, which made them sufceptible of different senses, and applicable to the sentiments of both communions. The consequence of all this was, that the imperial creed was reprobated by both parties. However, it was promulgated with great solemnity by the emperor at Augshurg. The elector of Mentz, without even asking the opinion of the princes present, gave a sanction 
Λ.0 
this formula, as if he had been commissioned to represent the whole diet Many kept silence through fear, and that silence was interpreted as a tacit consent. some had the courage to oppose it, and these were reduced by force of arms; and the most deplorable scenes of bloodshed and violence were acted throughout the whole empire. Maurice, elector of saxony, who had hitherto kept neutral, now assembled the whole of his nobility and clergy, in order to deliberate on this critical affair. At the head of the latter was Melancthon, whose word 
was respected as a law 
among the Protestants. But 
