to proceed with the utmost circumspection : and after all, seldom it happens that speculations of that kind afford any satisfaction. Luckily, in the present case, our speculations are supported by facts and solid argument. First, a small object of one species opposed to 
a 
great object of another, produces not, in any degree, that deception which is so remarkable wlien both ob jects are of the same species. The greatest disparity between objects of different kinds, is so common as to be observed with perfect indifference; but such dispa rity between the objects of the same kind being uncommon, never fails to produce surprise : and may we not fairly conclude, that surprise, in the latter case, is what occasions the deception, when we sind no deception in the former? In the npxt place, if surprise be the sole canse of the deception, it follows necessarily that the deception will vanish as soon as the objects compared become familiar. This holds so unerringly, as to leave no reasonable doubt that surprise is the prime mover: our surprise is great, the sirst time a small lapdog is seen with a large mastiff; but when two such animals are constantly together, there is no surprise, and it makes no difference whether they be viewed separately or in company. We set no bounds to the riches a man who has recently made his fortune; the surprising disproportion between his present and his past situation being carried to an extreme : but with regard to a family that for many generations hath enjoyed great wealth, the same salse reckoning is not made. It is equally remarkable, that a trite simile has no effect : a lover compared to a moth scorching itself at the flame of a candle, originally 
a 
sprightly ssmile, has by frequent use lost all force; love cannot now be compared to sire, without some degree of disgust. It has been justly observed against Homer, that the lion is too often introduced into his similes; all the variety he is able to throw into them not being sufficient to keep alive the reader’s surprise. 
To explain the influence of comparison upon the mind, we have chosen the ssmplest case, viz. the first sight of two animals of the same kind, differing in size only; but to complete the theory, other circum stances must be taken in. And tile next suppositson we make, is where both animals, separately familiar to the spectator, are brought together for the sirst time. In that cafe, the effect of magnifying and dinririisliing is found remarkably greater than in that sirst mentioned; and the reason will appear upon analysing the open ration.; the sirst feeling we have is of surprise at the uncommon difference of two creatures of the same species;; are next sensible, that the one appears less, the other larger, than they did formerly; and that new circumstance increasingour surprise, makes us imagine 
a 
still greater opposition between the animals, than if we had formed no notion of them beforehand. 
Let us make one other supposition, that the spectator was acquainted beforehand with one of the animals only; the lapdog, for example. This new circumstance will vary the effect; sor, instead of widening the natural difference, by enlarging in appearance the one animal, and diminishing the other in proportion, the whole apparent alteration will rest upon the lapdog : the surprise to sind it less than it appeared formerly, directs to it our whole attention, and makes us conceive it to be a most diminutive creature : the mastiff 
in the mean time is quite overlooked. To illustrate this effect by a familiar example. Take a piece of pa per or of linen tolerably white, and compare it with a pure white of thc same kind : the judgement we formed of the sirst object is instantly varied; and the surprise occasioned by finding it less white than was thought, produceth a hasty conviction that it is much less white than it is in reality : withdrawing now the pure white, and putting in its place a deep black, the surprise occasioned by that new circumstance carries us to the other extreme, and makes us conceive the object sirst mentioned to be a pure white : and thus experience compels us to acknowledge, that our emotions have an influence even upon our eye sighf. 
j 
lus experiment leads to a general observation, that whatever is found more strange and beautiful than was expected, is judged to be more strange and beautiful than it is in reality. Hence a common artifice, to depreciate beforehand what we wish to make a sigure in the opinion of others. 
The companions employed by poets and orators are of the kind last mentioned; for it is always a known object that isto be magmfied or lessened The former is effected by likening it to some grand object, or by contrasting it with one of an opposite character. To effectuate the. latter, the method must be reversed < the object must be contrasted with something superior to it, or likened to something inferior. The whole effect is produced upon the principal object; which by that means is elevated above its rank, or depressed below it. 
In accounting for the effect that any unusual resemblance or dissimilitude hath upon the mind, no cause has been mentioned but surprise; and to prevent con fusion, it was proper to diseuss that cause sirst. But surprise is not the only cause of the effect described; another occurs, which operates perhaps not less powerfully, viz. a principle in human nature that lies still in obseurity, not having been unfolded by any writer,, though its effects are extensive : and as it is not distinguished by a proper name, the reader must be satissied with the following description. Every man who studies himself or others, must be sensible of a tendency or propensity in the mind to complete every work that is begun, and to carry things to their full perfection. There is little opportunity to display that propensity upon natural operations, which are seldom left imperfect; but in the operations of art it hath great seope : it impels us to persevere in our own work, and to wish for the completion of what another is doing : we feel a sensible pleasure when the work is brought to perfection; and our pain is not less sensible when we are disappointed. Hence our uneasiness when an interest ing story is broke off in the middle, when a piece of music ends without a close, or when a building or garden is left unsinished. The same propensity operates in making collections; such as the whole works, good and bad, of any author. A certain person attempted to collect prints of all the capital paintings, and succeeded except as to a few. La Bruyere remarks, that an anxious search was made for these; not for their value, but to complete the set. 
The sinal cause of the propensity is an additional proof of its existence. Human works are of no signi sicancy till they be completed; and reason is not always 
a 
sufficient counterbalance to indolence : some prin 
