to 
the 29th natural order, 
Camfianacea. 
The capsule is bilocular, the corolla cylindrical, and villous without; the sligma bifid. 
REUTLINGEN, a handsome, free, and imperial town of Germany, in the circle of suabia, and duchy of wirtemberg; seated in a plain on the river Eschez, near the Neckar, adorned with handsome public build ings, and has a well frequented college. E. Long. 9. 10. N. Lat. 48. 31. 
REVE, Reeve, or 
Greve, 
the bailiff of a franchise, or manor, tlms called, especially in the west of eng land. Hence shire reeve, sheriff, port greve, c. 
REVEILLE, a beat of drum about break of day, to give notice that it is time for the soldiers to arise, and that the sentries are to forbear challenging. 
RE’VEL, a port town of Livonia, situated at the south entrance of the gulpli of Finland, partly in a plain and partly on a mountain; 133 miles southwest of pe tershurg, and 85 soutli east of Abo. It is a place of great trade, and holds two ^sairs yearly, which are visited by merchants from all countries, but particularly by those of England and Holland. It is a slrong and a rich place, with a capital harbour. It is surrounded with high walls and deep ditches, and defended by a castle and stout bastions. It was confirmed to the swedes at the peace of Oliva, conquered by Peter the Great in 1710, and ceded to Russia in 1721. The conquest of it was again attempted by the swedes in 1790. The duke of sudermania, with the swedish fleet, attempted to carry the harbour; but after an obstinate engagement with the Russian fleet, he was obliged to give it up; but it was but for a very short while. He retired about 10 leagues from the harbour, to repair the damage his fleet had sustained, and to prepare for a second attack before any relief could be afforded to the Russian fleet. As soon as he had refitted, he sailed for the harbour, at a league distant from which the Russian fleet was discovered, ready to dispute with the swedes the entrance. Upon a council being held by the Duke, it was resolved to attack the Russians; and the signals being given, the fleet bore down for the attack, which was maintained sor near six hours wish the utmost fury : at length the swedes broke the Russian line, which threw them into much confusion; when the swedes, taking the advantage of the general confusion into which the Russians were thrown, followed them with their whole force into the harbour, where the conflict and carnage were dreadful on both sides, though the swedes certainly had the worst of it; at the same time that their skill and bravery is indisputable. 
This valuable place was again confirmed to Russia by the peace. The government of Revel or est honia is one of the divisions of the Russian empire, containing five districts. I. Revel, on the Baltic sea. 
2. baltic port, about 40 versts westward srom Revel. 
3. Habsal, or Hapsal, a maritime town. 4. weissen stein, on the rivulet saida, about 80 versts from Revel. 5. wesenberg, about 100 versts from Revel, at about an equal distance srom that town and Narva. 
REVELATION, the act of revealing, or making a thing public that was before unknown; it is also ustd for the discoveries made by God to his prophets, and by them to the world; and more particularly for the books of the Old and New Testament. see Bible 
; 
chrlstianltv, 
Miracle, Religion, 
and 
Theology. 

The principal tests of the truth of any revelation, are the tendency of its practical doctrines; its consisten cy with itself, and with the known attributes of God; and some satisfactory evidence that it cannot have been derived from a human souree. 
Before any man can receive a written book as a re velation from God, he must be convinced that God ex ists, and that he is possessed of almighty power, infinite wisdom, and perfect justice Now should a book teaching absurd or immoral doctrines (as many chapters of the Koran do, and as all the traditionary systems of Paganism did), pretend to be revealed by a God of wisdom and justice, we may safely reject its pretensions without farther examination than what is necessary to satisfy us that we have not misunderftood its doctrine. should a book claiming this high origin, enjoin in one part of it, and forbid in another, the same thing to be done under the same circumstances, we may reject it with contempt and indignation; because a being of infinite wisdom can never act capricioussy or absurdlv. still, however, as it is impossible for us to know how far the powers of men may reach in the investigation or discovery of useful truth, some farther evidence is necessary to prove a doctrine of divine origin, than its mere consistency with itself', and with the principles of morality; and this evidence can be nothing but the power of working miracles exhibited by him by whom it was originally revealed. Tn every revelation confirmed by this evidence, many doctrines are to be looked for which human reason cannot fully comprehend; and these are to be believed on the testimony of God, and suffered to produce their practical consequences. At this kind of belief the shallow infidel may smile con temptuousiy; but it has place in arts and sciences as 
well as in religion, whoever avails himself of the demonstrations of Newton, Bernoulli, and others, refpectinœ the resistance of fluids, and applies their conclusions to the art of shipbuilding, is as implicit a believer, if he understand not the principles of fluxions, as any Christian; and yet no man will say that his faith is not pro ductive of important practical consequences. He believes, however, in man, while the Christian believes in God; and therefore he cannot pretend that his faith rests on a surer foundation. 
Mr Locke, in laying down the distinct provinces of reason and faith, observes, 1. That the same truths may be discovered by revelation which are discoverable to us by reason. 2. That no revelation can b.c. admitted against the clear evidence of reason. 3. That there are many things of which we have but smper sect notions, or none at all; and ethers, of whose past, present, or future existence, by the natural use of our faculties we cannot have the least knowledge: and these, being beyond the discovery of our faculties, and above reason, when revealed, become the proper object of our faith. He then adds, that our reason is not injured or disturbed, but assisted and improved, by new discoveries of truth coming from the fountain of knowledge, whatever Ged has revealed is certainly true; but whether it be a divine re velation. or not, rea son must judge, which can never permit the mind to reject a greater evidence to embrace what is less evi 
