an axis 
e f 
of riff tempered steel wire, so that the sur face on which the fluid is to act may be inclined to the stream in the precise angle we dessre. Let this axis have hooks at lts extremities, which are hitched into the loops of four equal threads, suspeuded fi-om the hooks 
a, b, 
C 
CL; 
and let He be a silth thread, fuspend ed from the middle of the line joining the points of suspensson 
a, b. 
Let HIK be a graduated arch, whose centre is H, and whose plane is in the direction of the stream. It is evident that the impulse on the body 
G 
will be measured (by a process well known to every mathematician) by the deviation of the thread He from the vertical line HI; and this will be done without any intricacy of calculation, or any attention to the centres of gravity, of oscillation, or of percussion. These must be accurately ascertained with respect to that form in which the pendulum has always been employed for measuring the impulse or velocity of a stream. These advantages arise from the circumstance, that the axis 
cs 
remains always parallel to the horizon, we may be allowed to observe, by the by, that this would have been a great improvement of the beautiful experiments of Mr Robins and Dr Hutton on the velocities of cannon shot, and would have saved much intricate calculation, and been attended with many important ad vantages. 
The great difficulty is, as we have observed, to measure the velocity of the stream. Even this may be done in this way with some precisson. Let two floating bo dies be dragged along the surface, as in the experiments of the academy, at some distance from each other late rally, fo. that the water between them may not be sen sibly disturbed. Let a horizontal bar be attached to them, transverse to the direction of their motion, at a proper height above the surface, and let a spherical pen duium be suspended from this, or let it be suspended from four points, as here described. Now let the deviation of this pendulum be noted in a variety of velo cities. This will give us the law of relation between the velocity and the deviation of the pendulum. Now, in making experiments on the resistance of bodies, let the velocity of the stream, in the very silaraent in which the resistance is measured, be determined by the devia t.ion of this pendulum. 
It were greatly to be wished that some more palpable argument could be found for the existence of a quantity of stagnant fluid at the anterior and posterior patts of the body. The one already given, derived from the consideration that no motion changes either its velocity or direction by finite quantities in an instant, is unex ceptionable. But it gives us little information. The smallest conceivable extent of the curve FM in sig. 16. will answer this condition, provided only that it touch es the axis in some peint F, and the body in some point M, fo as not to make a finite angle with either. But surely there are circumstances which rigoroussy determme the extent of this stagnant ssuid. And it appears without doubt, that if there were no cohesion or sric tion, this space will have 
a 
determined ratio to the size of the body (the figures of the bodies being supposed similar).. suppose a plane surfaee AB, as in sig. io. there can be no doubt but that the sigure A 
a 
D 
b 
B will in every case be similar. But if we suppose an adhesion or tenacity which is constant, this may make 
a change 
both 
in its extent and its form : sor its constancy 
of form depends on the disturbing forces being alwaye as the squares of the velocity; and this ratio of the disturbing forces is preserved, while the inertia of the fluid is the only agent and patient in the process. But when we add to this the constant (that is, invariable) disturbing force of tenacity, a change of form and dimensions must happen. In like manner, the friction, or something analogous to friction, which produces an effect proportional to the velocity, must alter this necessary ratio of the whole disturbing forces. We may conclude, that the effect of both these circumstances will be to diminish the quantity of this stagnant ssuid, by licking lt away externally; and to this we must ascribe the fact, that the part FAMIS never perfectly stagnant, but is generally disturbed with a whirling motion. we may also conclude, that this stagnaht ssuid. will be more ineürvated between F and M than it woulcl have been, independent of tenacity and friction; and that the arch LR. will, on the contrary, be less incurvated. — And, lastly, we may conclude, that there will be something opposite to pressure, or something which we may call 
abjirailion, 
exerted on the posterior part of the body which moves in a tenacious fluid, or is exposed to the stream of such a fluid; sor the stagnant fluid LCR adheres to the fursace LC; and the passing fluid tends to draw it away both by its tenacity and by its friction. This mnst augment the apparent impulse of the stream on such a body; and it must greatly augment the resistance, that is, the motion lost by this body in its progress through the tenacious fluid : for the body must drag along with it this stagnant fluid, and drag it in opposition. to the tenacity and friction 
of 
the surrounding fluid. The effect of this is most remarkably seen in the resistances to the motion of pendulums: : the chevalier Boat, in his examination o newton’s experiments, clearly shows that this consti tutes the greatest part of the resistance. 
This most ingenious writer has paid great attention to this part of the process of nature, and has laid the foundation of a theory of resistance entirely different from all the preceding. We cannot abridge it; and it is too imperfect in its present condition to be offered as a body ef doctrine : but we hope that the ingenious au thor wisl prosecute the subject. 
WE cannot conclude this dissertation (which we acknowledge to be very unsatisfactory and imperfect) better, than by giving an account of some experiments of the chevalier Buat, which seem of immense consequence, and tend to give us very new views of the sub ject. Mr Buat observed the motion of water issuing from a glass cylinder through a narrow ring formed by a bottom of smaller diameter; that is, the cylinder was open at both ends, and there was placed at its lower end a circle of smaller diameter, by way of bottom, which lest a ring all around. He threw some powdered sealing wax into the water, and observed with great attention the motion of its small particles. He saw those which happened to be in the very axis of the cylinder descend along the axis with a motion pretty uniform, till they came very near the bottom from this they continued to descend very ssowly, till they were almost in contact with the bottom; they then devia 
ted from the centre, 
and approached the orifice in. 
