twhere the characters do not strike'unless they are ex aggerated. He did not pursue the method of the fle mish painters of sinishing his pieces. He sometimes gave his light such thick touches, that it seemed more like modelling than painting. A head of his has been shown, the nose of which was fo thick of paint, as that which he copied from nature. He was told one day, that by his peculiar method of employing colours, his pieces appeared rugged and uneven — he replied, he was a painter, and not a dyer. He took a pleasure in drese sing his figures in an extraordinary manner : with this view he had collected a great number of eastern caps, ancient armour, and drapery long since out of sashion. when be was advised to consult antiquity to attain a better taste in drawing, as his was usually heavy and uneven, he took his counsellor to the closet where these old vellments were deposited, saying, by way of deri sion, those were his antiques. 
Rembrandt, like most men of genius, had many caprices. Being one day at work, painting a whole fa mily in a single picture, word being brought him that his monkey was dead, he was so affected at the loss of this animal, that, without paying any attention to thc persons who were sitting for their pictures, he painted the monkey upon the same canvas. This whim could not fail of displeasing those the piece was desigued for; hut he would not efface it, choosing rather to lose the Jale of his picture. 
This freak will appear still more extraordinary in Rembrandt, when it is considered that hc was extremely avaricious; which vice daily grew upon him. He practised various stratagems to sell his prints at a high price. The public were very desirous of purcliasing them, and not without reason. In his prints the same taste prevails as in his pictures; they are rough and irregular, but picturesque. In order to heighten the value of bis prints, and increase their price, he made his son fell them as if he had purloined them from his father; others he exposed at public sales, and went thither himself in disgusse to bid for them; sometimes Jte gave out that he was going to leave Holland, and settle in another country. Tllese stratagems were suc cessful, and he got his own price for his prints. At other times he would print his plates half sinished, and expose them to sale; he afterwards finished them, and they became sresh plates, when they wanted retouch ing, he made some alterations in them, which promoted the sale of his prints a third time, though they differed but little from the first impressions. 
His pupils, who were not ignorant of his avarice, one day painted some pieces of money upon cards; and Rembrandt no sooner saw them, than he was going to take them up. He was not angry at the pleasantry, but his avarice still prevailed. He died in 1674. 
REMEMBRANCE, is when the idea of something formerly known recurs again to the mind without the operation of a like object on the external sensory. see Memory and Reminiscence. 
remembrancers, anciently called 
clerks of the remembrance, 
certain officers in the exchequer, whereof three are distinguished by the names of the 
king’s remembrancer, 
the 
lord treafurer’s remembrancer, 
and the 
remembrancer of thefrf fruits. 
The king’s remembrancer enters in his office all recognizances taken before the barons for any of the king’s debts, for appearances or observing of orders;; also takes all bonds for the king’s debts, 
c. 
and makes out processes thereon. He likewise issue, s processes against the collectors of the customs, excise, and others, for their accounts; and informations upon penal statutes are entered and sued in his office, where all proceedings in matters upon English bills in the ex çhequer chamber remain. His duty further is to make out the bills of compositions upon penal laws, to take the statement of debts; and into his office are delivered all kinds of indentures and other evidences which concern the assuring any lands to the crown. He every year 
in crassmo animarum, 
reads in open court the statute for election of sheriffs; and likewise openly reads in court the oaths of all the officers, when they are admitted. 
The lord treasurer’s remembrancer is charged to make out process against all sheriffs, escheators, receivers, and bailiffs, for their accounts. He also makes out writs of 
fieri facias, 
and extent for debts due to the king, either in the pipe or with the auditors; and process for all such revenue as is due to the king on account of his tenures. He takes the account of sheriffs; and also keeps a record, by which it appears whether the sheriffs or other accountants pay their proffers due at Easter and Michaelmas; and at the same time he makes a record, whereby the sheriffs or other accountants keep their prefixed days : there are likewise brought into his office all the accounts of customers, comptrollers, and accountants, in order to make entry thereof on record; also all estreats and amercements are certified here, c. 
The remembrancer of the sirsofruits takes all com positions and bonds for the payment of sirst fruits and tenths; and makes out process against such as do not pay the same. 
reminiscence, that power of the human mind, whereby it recollects itself, or calls again into its remembrance such ideas or notions as it had really forgot : in which it differs from memory, which is a treasuring up of things in the mind, and keeping them there, without forgetting them. 
remission, in physics, the abatement of the power or efficacy of any quality; in opposition to the 
increase 
of the same, which is called 
intenjion. 
Remission, in law, c. denotes the pardon of a crime, or the giving up the punishment due thereto. 
remisslon, in medicine, is when a distemper abates for a time, but does not go quite off. 
REMI FT ANCE, in commerce, the traffic or return of money from one place to another, by bills of exchange, orders, or the like. 
remonstrance, an expostulation or humble supplication, addressed to a king, or other superior, beseeching him to reflect on the inconveniences or ill con sequences of some order, edict, or the like. This word is also used for an expostulatory counsel, or advice; or a gentle and handsome reproof, made either in general, or particular, to apprise of or correct some sault, c. 
REMORA, or sucking fish, a species of eche neis. Many incredible things are related of this animal by the ancients; as that it had the power of stop ping the largest and swiftest vessel in its course : and even to this day it is asserted by the sishermen in the Mediterranean, that st^has a power of retarding the motion of their boats by attaching itself to them; for 
