Lower Circle of the Rhine, 
consists of the palatinate of the Rhine, and the three ecclesiastical electorates, viz. those of Cologne, Mentz, and Triers. 
Upper Circle of the Rhine, 
consisted of the landgravi ates of Alsace and Hesse, comprehending the aveteraw; but now only Hesse can be accounted a part of germa ny, Alsace being long ago .united to France. 
’ RHINEBERG, a town of Germany, in the circle of the Lower Rhine, and diocese of Cologne. It was in the possession of the French, but restored to the archbishop of Cologne by the treaty of Utrecht. It is seated on the Rhine, in E. Long. 6. 39. N. Lat. 
RHINECK, a town of Germany, in the archbi shopric of Cologne, seated on the Rhine, E. Long. 7. ς3. N. Lat. 50. 27. — There is another town of the same name in swisserland, capital of Rhinthal, seated on the Rhine, near the lake of Constance, with a good castle. E. Long. 9. 53. N. Lat. 47. 38, 
RHINFELD, a small but strong town of Germany, in the circle of suabia, and the best of the four forest towns belonging to the house of Austria. It has been often taken and retaken in the German wars; and is seated on the Rhine, over which there is a handsome bridge. E. Long. 7. 53· N. Lat. 47. 40. 
RHINEGAU, a beautiful district of the electorate of Mentz, is situated on the Rhine, about three miles from the city of Mentz, and is fo populous that lt looks like one entire town intermixed with gardens and vineyards. The Rhine here grows astonishingly wide, and forms a kmd of sea, near a msle bioad, in wsuch are several well wooded little lsiands. I lie Rhmegau forms an amphitheatre, the beauties of which are beyond all deseriptlon. At walluf, the very high hills come nearly down to the riverside; from thence they recede agam mto the country, formmg a kmd of half circle, the other end of which is'15 miles off at rude sheim’ θη the banks of the Rhine. she banks of the river, the hills which form the circles, and the slopes of the great mountams, are thick sown with vil lages and hamlets. The white appearance of the buildings, and the sine blue slated roofs of the houses playing amidst the various green of the landscape, have an admirable effect. In the space of every mile, as you sail down the river, you meet with a village which in any other place would pass for a town, blany of the νιί lages contain from 300 to 400 families; and there are 36 of them in a space of 15 miles long and stx miles broad, which ls the width of this beautiful amphitheatre. The declivities of all the hills and mountains are planted thick with vineyards and fruit trees, and the thick wooded tops of the hills cast a gloomy horror over the otherwise cheerful landscape. Every now and then a row of rugged hills run directly down to the shore, and dommeer majcstically over the lesser hills un der them. On one of these great mountains, just about the middle of the Rhinegau, you meet with 
Johannis berg, 
a village which produces some of the best rhe nism Before this village is a pretty little riling, and near the banks of the river there is a very sine old castle, which gives unspeakable majesty to the whole landscape. Indeed, in every village, you meet with some or other large building, which contributes very much to the decoration 
of the whole. This country is indebted for its 
riches to this semicirci/ar hill, which protects it from the cold winds of the east and north, at the same time that it leaves room enough for the sun to exercise his benign influences. The groves and higher Hopes of the hills make excellent pastures, and produce large quantities of dung, which, in a country of this sort, is of inestimable value. 
The bank of the Rhine, opposite to the Rhinegau, is exceedingly barren, and heightens the beauty of the prospect on the other side by the contrast it exhibits; on this side, you hardly meet above three or four villages, and these are sar distant from each other. The great interval between them is occupied by heaths and mea dows, only here and there a thick bush affords some shade, and a few corn fields among the viliages enliven the gloomy landscape. The back ground of this coun try is the most picturesque part of it. It is formed by a narrow gullet of mountains, which diminish in perspective between Rudesheim and Bingen. Perpendicular mountains and rocks hang over the Rhine in this place, and seem to make it the dominion of eternal night. At a distance, the Rhine seems to come out of this landscape through a hole underground; and it appears to run tedioussy, in order to enjoy its course through a pleasant country the longer. Amidst the darkness which covers this back ground, the celebrated Monse tower seems to swim upon the river. In a word, there is not anything in this whole tract that does not contribute something to the beauty and magnificence 
of 
the whole; or, if I may be permitted the expression, to make the paradise more welcome. As you sail along the Rhine, between Mentz and Bingen, the banks f the river form an oval amphitheatre, which makes one of the richest and most picturesquc landscapes to be seen in Europe. The inhabitants of these regions arer some of them extremely rich, and some extremely poor. The happy middle state is not for countries the chief product of which is wine; sor, besides that the culti vation of the vineyard is insinitely more troublesoma and expensive than agriculture, it is subjected to revolutions, which in an instant reduce the holder of land to the condition of a day labourer. It is a great mis fortune for this country, that, though restrained by law,, the nobility are, through connivance of the Elector, allowed to purchase as much land as they please. The peasant generally begins by running in debt for his vineyard; so that if it does not turn out well, he is reduced to day labour, and the rich man extends his possessions to the great detriment of the country. There are several peasants here, who having incomes of 30, 50, or ιοο, οοο guilders a year, have laid aside the pea sant, and assumed the wine merchant; but, splendid as their situation is, it does not compensatb, in the eyes of the humane man, for the sight of so many poor people with which the villages swarm. In order to render a country of this kind prosperous, the state should ap propriate a fund to the purpose of maintaining the pea sant in bad years, and giving him the assistance which his necessities, and his want of ready money, may from time to time make convenient. 
The inhabitants of the Rhinegau are a handsome and uncommonly strong race of men. You see at the very sirst aspect that their wine gives them merry hearts and sound bodies. They have a great deal of natural wit, 
and a vivacity and jocoseness, which distinguishes them 
