people incapable of instruction, and ripe 
for 
the greatest 
miseries in which we may be involved. 
revulsion, in medicine, turning a flux of 
hu 
mours from one part to another by bleeding, cupping, friction, sinapisms, blisters, fomentations, bathings, issues, fetons, strong purging of the bowels, c. 
REYN (Jan de), an eminent history and portrait painter, born at Dunkirk in 1610. He had the good fortune to be a disciple of Vandyke, was the sirst performer, in his sohool, and was so attached to his mailer that he followed him to London, where it is thought he continued as long as he lived. In fhese kingdoms he is mostly known by the name of 
Lang Jan. 
He died in 1678 : and it is imagined that the scarcity of his works is occasioned by so many of them being imputed to Vandyke; a circumstance which, .if true, is beyond any tiling that could be said in his •praise. 
reynolds (sir Joshua), the celebrated painter, was, on July the 16th 1723, bom at Plympton, a small town in Devonshire. His father was minister of the parish, and also master of the grammar school; and being a man of learning and philanthropy, he was be soved and respected by all to whom he was known. — such a man, it will naturally be supposed, was assiduous in the cultivation of the minds of his children, among whom his son Joshua shonc conspicuous, by displaying at a very early period a superiority of genius, and the rudiments of a correct taste. Unlike other boys, who generally content themselves with giving a literal explanation of their author, regardless of his beauties or his faults, young Reynolds attended to both these, displaying a happy knowledge of what he read and entering with ardour into the spirit of his author. He discovered likewise talents for composition, and a natural propensity to drawing, in which his friends and intimates thought him qualified to excel. Emulation was a distinguishing feature in his mind, which his father perceived with the delight natural to a parent; and designing him for the church, in which he hoped that his talents might raise him to eminence, he sent him to one of the universities. 
soon after this period he grew passionately fond of painting; and, by the perusal of richardson’s theory of that art, was determined to make it his profession through life. At his own earnest request, therefore, he was removed to London; and about the year 1742 be came a pupil to Mr Hudson, who, though not himself an eminent painter was preceptor to severals who afterwards excelled in the art. One of the sirst advices which he gave to Mr Reynolds was to copy carefully guercino’s drawings. This was done with such skill, 
that many of the copies are said to be now preserved in the cabinets of the curious as the originals of that very great master. 
About the year 174.9, Mr ireynolds went to Italy under the auspices, and in the company, of the late jlord (then Commodore) Keppel, who was appointed to the command of the .British squadron in the medi terranean. in this garden of the world, this magic seat of the arts, he failed not to visit the schools of the great masters, to study the productions of different ages, and to contemplate with unwearied attention the various beauties which are characteristic 
ei 
each. His labour here, as has been observed of another painter, was " the labour of love, not the task of the hireling and how much he profited by it is .known to all Europe. 
Having remained about two years in Italy, and 
sta 
died the language as well as the arts of the country with great success, he returned to England, improved by travel and refined bÿ education. On the road to London from the port where he landed, he accidentally found in the inn where he lodged johnson’s life of savage;; was so taken with the charms of composi tion, and the masterly delineation of character display -- ed in that performance, that, having begun tp read it while leaning with his arm on the chimney-piece, he continued in that attitude insensible of pain till he was hardly able to raise his hand to his head. The admiration of the work naturaliy led him to seek the acquaintance of its author, who continued one of his sincerest admirers and warmest friends, till 1784, when they were separated by the stroke of death. 
The first thing that distinguished him aster his return to his native country, was a full length portrait of Commodore Keppel; which in the polite circles was spoken of in terms of the highest encomium, and testified to what a degree of eminence he had arrived in his profession. This was followed by a portrait of Lord Edgecombe, and a few others, which at once introduced him to the first business in portrait painting » and that branch of the art he cultivated with such success as will for ever establish his fame with all descrip tions of resigned society. Having painted some of the sirst rate beauties of the age, the polite world flocked to see the graces and the charms of his pencil; and he soon became the most fashionable painter, not only su England, but in all Europe. He has indeed preserved the resemblance of so many illustrious characters, that we feel the less regret for his having left behind him so scw historical paintings; though what he has done in that way shows a) him to have been qualified to excel in both departments. The only landscape, perhaps, which 
a) As the lovers of painting may wish to have a catalogue of this great master’s historical pieces, we subjoin the following from the European Magazine, which we have good reason to believe accurate, as the editors of that miscellany grudge neither trouble nor expense to procure authentic information. sir joshua’s principal hi storical pieces, then, are the following : Hope nttrsing Love; Venus chastising Cupid for having learned to cast accounts; Count Ugolino in the dungeon; the calling of samuel; Ariadne; a Captain of banditti; Beggar Boy; a Lady in the character of st Agnes; Thais; Dionysius the Areopagite; an infant Jupiter; Master Crew in the character of Henry VIII; the death of Dido; a Child asleep; Cupid sseeping; Covent Garden Cupid; Cupid in the Clouds; Cupids painting; Boy laughing.; Master Herbert in the character of Bacchus; Hebe; Miss Meyer in the character ef Hebe; Madonna, a head; the black guard Mercury; a little boy sa spuel) praying j and old Man reading; Love loosing the zonç ef Beauty; the Children in the Wood j Cleo 
