queen 
or 
princess dowager, or any descendant of king George If. residing in this kingdom; — to be guardian and regent till the successor attains such age, assisted by Æ council of regency; the powers of them all being ex pressly defined and set down.in the several acts. 
Regent also signifies a professor of arts and sciences in a college, having pupils under his care; but it is generally restrained to the lower classes, as to rhetoric, logic, c. those of philosophy being called In 
the English universities lt is applied to Masters of Arts under live years standing, and to Doctors under two, as non regent is to those above that standing. 
REGGIO, an ancient and considerable town of Italy, in the kingdom of Naples, and in the Farther Calabria, with an archbishop’s see, and a woollen manufactory. It is · seated in a delightful country, which produces plenty of oranges, and all their kindred fruits. Thc olives are exquisite, and high flavoured· The town, however, can boast of neither beautiful buildings nor strong fortifications. Of its edisices the Gothic cathedralis the only striking one, but it affords nothing curious in architecture. The citadel' is far from formidable, according to the present system of tactics : nor could tile city walls make a long reiislance against any enemy but Barbary corsairs; and even these they have not always been able to repel, for in 1543 it was laid in ashes by Barbarossa. Mustapha sacked it 15 years after, and the desolation was renewed in 1593 by another set of Turks. Its exposed situation, on the very threshold of Italy, and fronting sicily, has from the earliest period rendered it liable to attacks and devastation. The chal cidians seized upon it, or, according to the usual Greek phrase, founded it, and called the colony 
Rhegion, 
from a word that means a break or crack, alluding to its post tion on thc point where sicily broke off from the continent. Anaxilas oppressed its liberties. Dionysius the Elder took it, and put many of the principal citizens to death, in revenge for their having refused his alliance,. The Campanian legion, sent to protect the Rhegians, turned its sword against them, massacred many inhabitants, and tyrannised over the remainder, till the ro roan senate thought proper to punish these traitors with exemplary severity, though at the same time it entered into league with the levolted garrison of Mellina. This Union with a sct of villains, guilty of the same crime, proved, that no love of justice, but political reasons alone, drew down its vengeance on the Campanians. — It is about 12 miles sæ. of Messina, and 190 s. by E. of Naples. E. Long. 16. ο. N. Lat. 38. 4. 
Reggio, an ancient, handsome, and strong town of Italy, in the duchy of Modena, with a strong citadel, and a bishop’s see. It has been ruined several times by the Goths, and other nations. In the cathedral are paintings by the greatest masters; and in the square is the statue of Brennus, chief of the Gauls. The inhabitants are about 22, 000, who carry on a great trade in silk. It was taken by prince Eugene in 1706, and by the king cf sardinia in 1742. It is seated in a fertile country to the south of the Apennines, and to the north of a spacious plain, 15 miles northwest of Modena, and 80 southeast of Milan. E. Long. 11. 5. N. Lat. 44. 43. — The duchy of this name is bounded on the west by that of Modena, and produces a great deal of silk, and belongs to the duke of Modena, except the marquisate 
cf 
st Martin, which belongs 
to a 
prince of that name. 
REGIAM majestatem. see Law, n5 CIV 3. REGICIDE, king killer, a word chiefly used 
with us in speaking of the persons concerned in the trial, condemnation, and execution, of king Charles I. 
regifugsum was a feast celebrated at Rome on the 24th of February, in commemoration of the expul sion of 
Tarquinius isaperlmr, 
and tile abolition of regal power. It was alio performed on the 26th of May, when the king of the sacrifices, or 
Rex sacrorum, 
offered bean flour and bacon, in the place where the affem blfes were held. The sacriice being over, the people halted away with all speed, to denote the precipitate flight of King Tarquin. 
REGIMEN, the regulation of diet, and, in a more general sense, of all the non naturals, with a view to preserve or restore health. see Abstinence, Aliment, Food, Diet, Drink, and Medicine. 
The vicissitude of exercise and rest forms also a necessary part of regimen. see Exercise. 
It is beneficial to be at rest now and then, ' but more so frequently to use exercise; because inaction renders the body weak and listless, and labour strengthens it. But a medium is to be observed in all things, find too much fatigue is to be avoided : for frequent and violent exercise overpowers the nat ural strength, and wastes thc body; but moderate exercise ought always to be used before meals. Now, of all kinds of exercise, riding on horieback is the most convenient : or if the person be too weak to bear it, riding in a coach, or at least in a litter : next follow fencing, playing at ball, running, walking. But it is one of the inconveniences of old age, that there, is seldom sufficient strength for using bo dily exercise, though it be extremely requisite sor health:. wherefore frictions with the flesh brush are necessary at this time of life; which should be performed by the person himself, if possible;; not, by his servants. 
sleep is the sweet soother of cares, and restorer of strestbth; as it repairs and replaces the wastes that are made by the labours aud exercises of the day. But excessive sieep has its inconveniences; for it blunts the senses, and renders them less fit for the duties of life. The proper time for sieep is the night, when darkness and silence invite and bring it on : day sieep is less refreshing; which rule if it be proper sor the multitude to observe, much more is the observance of it necessary for persons addicted to literary studies, whose minds and bodies are more susceptible of injuries. 
Regimen, in grammar, that part of syntax, or construction, which regulates the dependency of words, and the alterations which one occasions in another. 
Regimen for seamen. 
see seamen. 
REGIMENT, is a body of men, either horse, foot, or artillery, commanded by a colonel, lieutenant-colonel, and major. Each regiment of foot is divided into companies; but the number of companies differs : though in Britain our regiments are generally 10 companies, one of which is always grenadiers, exclusive of the two independent companies. Regiments of horse are coin mollly six troops, but there are some of nine. Dragoon regiments are generally in war time 8 troops, and in time of peace but 6. Each regiment has a chaplain, quarter mastcr, adjutant, and .surgeon. some German regiments consist of 2000 foot; and the regiment of Picardy in France consisted of 6000, being 120 companies, of 50 men in each company. 
7 
