a 
conference at Marpurg, Luther and Zuinglius, together with several other of the more eminent doctors who adhered to the respective parties of these contending chiefs : but this measure was not attended with the sa lutary effects which were expected from it. The divines disputed for four days in presence of the landgrave. lu there attacked Oeeolampadius, and Zuinglius was attack ed by Melancthon. Zuinglius was accused of heresy, not only on account of his explanation of the nature and design of the lord’s supper, but also in consequence of the saslse notions he was supposed to have adopted concerning the divinity of Christ, the efficacy of the divine word, original sin, and some other parts of the Christian doctrine. This illustrious reformer, however, cleared himself from the greatest part of these charges with the mor triumphant evidence, and in such a manner as appeared satisfactory even to Luther himself : hut their diffension concerning the manner of christ’s presence in the eucharist still remained; nor could either of the contending parties be persuaded to abandon, or even to modify, their opinions on that matter. The only advantage, therefore, which resulted from the meeting was, that the jarring doctors formed a kind of truce, 
by 
agreeing to a mutual toleration of their sentiments, and leaving to the disposal of Providence the cure of their divisions. 
In the mean time news were received that the emperor designed to come into Germany, with a view to terminate all religious differences at the approaching diet of Augshurg. Having soreseen some of the consequences 
of 
those disputes, and, besides, taken the advice of men of wisdom, sagacity, and experience, he became at certain times more cool in his proceedings, and more impartial in his opinions both of the contending parties and the merits of the cause. He, therefore, in an interview with the pope at Bologna, insisted, in the most serious and urgent manner, on the necessity of a general council. His remonstrances and expo stulations, however, could not move the pontiff; who maintained with zeal the papal prerogatives, reproached the emperor with an ill judged clemency, and alleged that it was the duty of that prince to support the church, and to execute speedy vengeance upon that obstinate heretical faction who dared to call in question the authority of Rome and its pontiff. To this discourse the emperor paid no regard; looking upon it as a most iniquitous thing, and a measure directly opposite to the laws of the empire, to condemn unheard a set of men who had always approved themselves good citizens, and deserved well of their country in several respects. hi therto indeed it was not easy for the emperor to form a clear idea of the matters in debate, since there was no regular syssern as yet composed, by which it might be known with certainty what were the true causes of Luther's opposition to the pope. The elector of saxony, therefore, ordered Luther, and other eminent divines, to commit to writing the chief articles of their religious system, and the principal points in which they differed from the church of Rome. Luther, in compliance with 
this order, delivered to the elector at Torgaw 17 articles which had been agreed upon in a conference at sultzbach in 1529; from whence these received the name of 
the articles of Torgaw. 
But though these were deemed by Luther a sufficient declaration of the senti 
>ients 
of 
the reformers, yet it was 
judged proper 
to en 
large them, in order to give perspicuity 
to 
their 
arguments, 
and strength to their cause. 
In 
this work Melancthon was employed; in which he showed a proper deference to the coimsels of Luther, and expressed his sentiments and doctrine with the greatest elegance and perspicuity; and thus came forth to view the famous 
Confession of Augsburg. 
On the 15th of June 1530, Charles arrived at Augsburg, and the diet was opened live days after. The Protestants received a formal permission to present an account of their tenets to the diet on the 25th of the same month; in consequence of which, at the time ap pointed, Christian Bayer, chancellor of saxony, read, in the German language, before the emperor and the princes assembled, the confession of Augshurg abovementioned. It contained 28 chapters, of which 
2t 
were employed in representing the religious opinions of the Protestants, and the other seven in pointing out the errors and superstitions of the church of Rome. The princes heard it with the deepest attention and recollection of mind : it confirmed some in the principles they had embraced; surprised others; and many, who be fore this time had little or no idea of the religions sentiments of Luther, were now not only convinced of their innocence, but delighted with their purity and simplicity. The copies of this Confession, which after being read were delivered to the emperor, were signed by John elector of saxony, George marquis of bran denburg, Ernest duke of Lunenburg, Philip landgrave of Hesse, Wolfgang prince of Anhalt, and by the im perial cities of Nuremberg and Reutlingen. 
The creatures of the church of Rome who were present at this diet employed John Faber, afterwards bishop of Vienna, together with Eckius, and another doctor named 
Cocklœus, 
to draw up a refutation of the protes tant confession: : refutation having been publicly read, the emperor required the Protestant members to acquiesce in it, and put an end to the religious disputes by an unlimited submission to the opinions and doctrines contained in this answer. But this demand was far from being complied with. The Protestants declared on the contrary, that they were by no means satissied with the reply of their adversaries; and earnestly desired a copy of it, that they might more fully demonstrate its extreme insufficiency and weakness. But this reasonable request was refused by the emperor; who interposed his supreme authority to prevent any farther proceedings in this matter, and solemnly prohibited the publication of any new writings or declarations that might contribute to lengthen out these religious debates. This, however, did not reduce the Protestants to silence. The divines of that communion, who had been present at the diet, endeavoured to recollect the arguments and objections employed by Faber, and had again recourse to the pen of Melancthon, who refuted them in an ample and sa tisfactory manner in a piece which was presented to thc emperor on the 2 2d of september, but which Charles refnsed to receive. This answer was afterwards enlarged by Melancthon, when he had obtained a copy of faber’s reply; and was published in the year 1531, with thc other pieces that related to the doctrine and diseipline of the Lutheran church, under the title of 
A Defence oof the Confejfion of Augsburg. 
Matters now began to draw towards a crisis. There 
were only three ways of bringing to a 
conclusion these 
