the Hebrew 
jod 
being convertible into the Greek υ or the Roman 
y; 
but the words 
Cane, Chan, Kan, 
or 
Khan, 
which are often diversisied into 
Ken, Kyn, Cohen, Cahan, 
•signifying 
Head, Chief, Prince, King, 
care diffused through a great part of Asia and Europe. In the Chinese language 
sffin, 
which signisies a 
King, 
is fo si milar to the word 
Chiun 
or 
Khiun 
under consideration, that no etymologist will hesitate' to pronounce them of the same original and the same import. I he word 
Kan 
or 
Khan 
is universally known to be an honorary ■title in Tartar ·; and 
Kaian 
or 
Kain, 
which is manisest iy cognate of the word 
Chiun 
or 
Kiun, 
is, in the 
Pihevi 
or old Persian language, the epithet applied to the dynasty of princes which succeeded Cyrus the Great. Among the scythians or ancient Tartars, 
Ghiun 
signisies the 
sun 
and likewise the 
day; 
and 
Kung, Kinung, Kun, 
runs through all the dialects of the Gothic .tongue, everywhere denoting a 
chief 
or 
sovereign. 
In .the syrian dialect, 
Kon 
signifies a prince; and hence the Almighty is styled (Gen. XIV 19.) 
Konah, 
which is transsated 
pojfjfor, 
but might have, - with perhaps more propriety, been rendered 
sovereign 
of heaven and earth. In Hebrew, the word 
Kahan 
or 
Kahen, 
which is the very same with 
Khan 
or 
Kan, 
signifies either a 
priejl 
or a 
prince; 
and in Egypt 
Kon 
was the name of the sirst Hercules or the 
sun. 
Hence the same word in composition denotes greatness, as 
can obus 
the great .serpent; 
can athoth, 
the .great 
Thoth 
or Mercury; 
can ofiris, 
the great 
Ofris. 
From tills deduction · we would conclude, that the word, which is found in fo many tongues, and always .denotes 
Chief, Prince, sovereign, 
is the very word 
Chiun 
which the Egyptians and Hebrews applied to 
sothis, 
as .being, in their conceptions, the chief or sovereign of asl the stars. This will appear still more probable, when 
we 
have ascertained the import of the word 
Remphan, 
or, as the LXX have it, 
Raiphan. 
Phan, 
the latter part of this word, is unquestionably the same with 
Pan, 
the most ancient of the Egyptian .gods (see Pan). It is likewise a cognate of the Hebrew 
Phanah, 
conspexit, spectavit, vidit; and the radical word seems to be ph ah, which signisies some times the countenance, and sometimes 
light. 
Hence 
Phaethon, 
which is compounded of 
plea 
light, 
eth 
or 
eh 
fire, and 
on 
strength, came to be one of the names of the sun. 
Rai, 
which we commonly write 
Rajah, 
has long Jignified, among the Indians, a subordinate prince; and we know, that between India and Egypt there was a very early intercourse. 
Raiphan, 
therefore, may be either the 
royal light 
or the 
bright prince, 
subordinate to Osiris; and in either sense, it was a very proper epithet of 
sothis 
in the Egyptian calendar. The word 
Rem 
or 
Rom, 
again (for it is sometimes written Remphan, and sometimes Rompha), is no other than the Hebrew an 
Rum 
“high, exalted.” Hence Remphan is the 
high 
or 
exalted light, 
which sothis certainly was. 
For this etymological dssquiiition we are indebted to Dr Doig, the learned author of 
Letters on the savage state, 
who has written a dissertation on 
Chiun 
and 
Remphan, 
of such value that we hope it will not be much longer with held from the public. The ascertaining the identity of those names, and the god to which they belonged, is the least of its mcit; for it will be found to throw much light upon many passages in the Old Testament. what confirms his interpretation is, that the 
idol consecrated by the Egyptians to 
sothis 
or the dog star, was a female sigure with a star on her head; and hence the prophet upbraids his - countrymen with ha ving born the 
star 
of their deity. 
Action of REMOVING, in scots law. see Lawn clxvii. 18. 
REMURIA, sestivals established at Rome by Romulus to appease the manes of his brother Remus. They were afterwards called 
Lemuria, 
and celebrated yearly. 
remus, the brother of Romulus, was exposed together with his brother by the cruelty of his gmndsa there. In the contest which happened between the two brothers about building a city, Romulus obtained the preference, and Remus, for ridiculing the riling walls, was put to death by bis brother’s orders, or by Romulus himself (see Romulus). The Romans were afflicted with a plague after this murder; upon which the oracle was consuited, and the manes of Remus appeased by the institution of the Remuria. 
RENAL, something belonging to the reins or Kid -- keys. 
RENCOUNTER, in the military art, the encoun ter of two little bodies or parties of forces. In which sense 
rencounter 
is used in opposition to a pitched battle. 
Rencounter, in single combats, is used by way of contradistinction to duel. — when two persons fall out and sight on the spot without having premeditated the combat, it is called a 
rencounter. 
rendezvous, or Rendèvous, a place appoint ed to meet in at a certain day and hour. 
RENE AI.MI A, in botany; a genus of the mono gynia order, belonging to the monandria class of plants. The corolla is trisid; the nectarium oblong; the calyx monophylious; the anthera seffile, opposite to the nec tarium; the berry is sseffiy. There is only one species, which is a native of surinam. 
RENEGADE, or Renegado, a person who has apostatized or renounced the Christian faith, to embrace some other religion, particularly Maliometanifm. 
RENFREW, the county town of Renfrewffiire, standing n the small river Cathcart, which flows into the Clyde at the distance of five miles from Glasgow, is a small but ancient royal borough, the seat of the sheriff’s court and of a presbytery. The town is neat ly built, and the inhabitants enjoy a tolerable share of commerce. — Renfrew was originally joined to Lanerk, but wa made an independent sheriffdom by Robert II who had a palace here. W. Long. 4. 26. N.lat.55. 51. 
renfrewshire, a county of scotland, styled by way of eminence the 
barony, 
because it was the ancient inheritance of the stuarts, is a small county, extending about 20 miles from north to south, and 13 from east to west, parted from Dumbartonshire by the river Clyde on the west, bordering on the east with la nerkshire, and on the north with Cunningham. The face of the country is varied with hill and vale, wood and stream; crowded with populous villages, and a dorned with the seats of gentlemen. The soil is in ge neral fertile, producing rye, barley, oats, peas, beans, flax, and some wheat : it likewise yields plenty of coal, and turf sor fuel: and affords abundance of pasturage for sheep and cattle. The inhabitants are Lowlanders and Presbyterians;; and industrious, addicted to traffic, and particularly expert in the linen manufacture. 
