sioners therein named should be empowered to accept so much of any future loan as they should have cash be longing to the public to pay for. This, lie said, would relieve that distress the country would otherwise be under, when, on account of a war, it might, be necessary to raise a new Ioan : whenever that shorsid be the case, his opinion was, that the minister should not only raise taxes sufficiently productive to pay the interest of the loan, but also sufficient to make good to the linking, fund whatsoever had been taken from it. 
If, therefore, for instance, at any suture period a loan of six millions was proposed, and there was at that time one million in the hands of the commissioners, in such case they should take a million of the loan, and the 
bonus 
or 
douceur 
thereupon should be received by them for the public. Thus government would only have five millions to borrow instead of six; and from such a mode of proceeding, he said, it was evident great benefit would arise to the public. 
This clause was received by Mr Pitt with the strcngest marks of approbation, as was likewise another, moved, by Mr Pulteney, enabling the commissioners named in the bill to continue purcliasing stock for the public when it is above par, unless otherwise directed by parliament, with these additional clauses the bill was read a third time on the 15th of May, and carried up to the Lords, where it also passed without meeting with any material opposition, and afterwards received the royal assent. 
The operation of this bill surpassed perhaps the mi nister’s most sanguine expectation. The fund was ably managed, and judiciousiy applied; and in 1793 the commissioners had extinguished some millions the public debt. The war, however, into which the nation was that year involved, and of which there is yet no cer tain prospect of a near end, has made it necessary to bor row additional sums, so large, that .many years of peace mnst elapse before the operation of the fund can contribute sensibly. to the relief of the people. The clear produce of the taxes raised. on the people of this country was, in the year; 1792, very near L 
17, 000, 0^0; 
and it must henceforth, from the accumulation of the debt, and the enormous expense of the present war, be necessarily rendered greater. 
Revenue, in hunting, a sseshy lump formed chiefly by a cluster of whitish worms on the head of the deer, supposed to occasson the casting of their horns by gnaw ing them at the root. 
REVERBERATION, in physics, the act of a body repelling or reflecting another after its impinging thereon. 
Reverberation, 
in chemistry, denotes a kind of circulation of the flame by means of a reverberatory furnace. 
REVERBERATORY, or 
Reverberating Furnace. 
see 
Chemis 
τκν index at Furnace, 
and 
Furnace; 
REVEREND, a title of respect given to eccler siastics. — The religious abroad are called 
reverend fathers, 
and abbesses, prioresses, c. 
reverend mothers. 
In England, bishops are 
right reverend, 
and archbishops 
most reverend. 
In France, before the Revolution, their bishops, archbishopa, and abbots, were .all alike 
mof reverend. 
i11 scotland the clergy individually are 
reverend, 
a synod is 
very reverend, 
.and the general assembly 
is 
venerable. 
REVERIE,, the same with delirium, raving, or 
distraction. It is used also for any ridiculous, extra 
vagant imagination, action, or proposition, a chimaera, or vision. But the most ordinary use of the word among English writers, is sora deep disorderly musing or meditation. 
reversal 
of 
Judgement, inlaw. A judgement may be salsisied, reversed, or voided, in the first place; 
without a writ of error, 
sor matters foreign fo or 
dehors 
the record, that is, not apparent upon the face of it; so that they cannot be assigned for error in the superior court, which can only judge from what appears in the record itself; and therefore, if the whole record be not certified, or not truly certified, by the inferior court, the party injured thereby (in both civil and criminal cases) may allege a diminution of the record, and cause it to be rectified. Thus, if any judgement whatever be given by persons who had no good commission to proceed against the person condemned, it is void; and may be falsisied by showing the special matter, without writ of error. As, where a commission issues to A and B, and twelve others, or any two of them, of which A or B shall be one, to take and try indictments; and any of the other twelve proceed without the interposition or presence of either A or B : in this case all proceedings trials, convictions, and judgments, are void for want of a proper authority in the commissioners, and may be falsisied upon bare inspection, without the trouble of 
a 
writ of error; it being a high misdemeanour in the judges fo proceeding, and little (if anything) short of murder in them all, in case the person so attainted be executed and suffer death. so likewise if a man purchases 
land of another; and afterwards the vender is either by outlawry or his own confession, convicted and attainted of treason or felony previous to the sale or alienation; whereby such land becomes liable to forfeit ure or escheat : now, upon any trial, the purchaser is at liberty, without bringing any writ of error, to falsify not only the time of the felony or treason supposed, but the very point of the felony or treason itself; and is not concluded by the confession or the outlawry of the vender, though the vender himself is concluded, and not suffered now to deny the fact, which he has by confession or slight acknowledged. But if such attainder of the vender was by verdict, on the oath of his peers, the alienee cannot be received to falsify or contradict the 
fact 
of the crime committed; though he is at liberty to prove a mistake in 
time, cox 
that the offence was committed after the alienation, and not before.. 
secondly, a judgement may be reversed, 
by writ of error, 
which lies from all inferior criminal jurisdictions to the court of king’s bench, and from the king’s bench to the häufe of peers;, and may be brought for notorious mistakes in the judgement or other parts of the record : as where a man is found guilty 
of 
perjury, and receives the judgement of felony, or sor other less palpable errors; such as any irregularity, omission, or want of form in the process of outlawry, or proclamations;; want of a proper addition to the defendant’s name, according to the statute of additions; for not properly naming the sheriss or other officer of the court, or not duly describing where his county court was held: for laying an offence, committed in the time of the late king, to be done against the peace of the present; and for many other similar. causes, which (though allowed out of tenderness to life and liberty) are not much to the credit or advanvimesi of the national justice. — - 
These writs 
of 
error, so rcverse judgments in case of. 
4 
