It was soon discovered that the leading.republicans had divided into two opposite factions. The one of these was called 
Girondßs 
, because V'ergniaud, gen soene, Guadet, and some others of its leaders, were members from the department of La Gironde. The celebrated Condorcet belonged to this party; and they were sometimes denominated 
Bofsfihnes, 
from M. Brissot de warville their principal leader. They supported the ministry now in office, at the head of which was Roland; and the majority of the convention was obviously attachets to them. In opposition to these was the smaller party of the 
M untrnn; 
fo called from its members usually sitting in the convention on the upper seats of the hall. They were men possessed of less personal respectability, and fewer literary accomplishments, but of daring and sanguinary characters, whom the revolution had brought into public notice. At the head of this party were Danton and Robespierre;; subor dinate to these were Couthon, Bazire, Thuriot, mer hn de Thionville, st Andre, Camille Demoulins, Chabot, Collot D’herbois, sergent, Legendre, Fabre D’eglantine, Panis, and Marat. 
s hesc two parties showed the diversity of their characters in the manner in which they treated the massacres of the 2d and 3d of september. The Brissotines, with the majority of the convention, wished to bring the murderers to trial; but the question was always eluded by the other party, with the assistance of the Jacobin csub and of the populace. 
On the 9th of October it was decreed, that all emigrants, when taken, should susser death; and on the 15th of November, in confeqnence of an insurrection in the duchy of Deux Ponts, and an application on the part of the insurgents to thc convention sor aid, the following decree was passed : " The national convention declare, in the name of the French nation, that they will grant fraternity and assistance to ali those people who wish to procure liberty; and they clsarge the executive power to send orders to the generals to give asslstance to such people as have suffered, or are now susfering, in the cause of liberty.” Of this decree foreign nations, with great reason, complained much, as will shortly appear. 
To return to the military affairs of the new republic. On the 12th of October General Dumourier came to Paris, and was speedily sent to commence a winter campaign in the Netherlands. He suddenly attacked the Austrians at the village of Bossu, and drove them from their ground. On the 5th of November he came in sight of the enemy upon the heights of 
je mappe. 
.Three rows of fortifications arose above each other defended by 100 pieces of cannon. Their right was covered by the village and a river, and their left by thick woods. The French were by their ovzn account 30, 000, whilst others with great probability of truth compute them at double that number, and the number of the Austrians was at least 20, 000. At seven in the morning of the following day a heavy cannonade com menced on both sides, and at noon a close attack was determined on by the French, whose right wing was commanded by Generals Bournonville and Dampierre, and the centre by Generals Egalité (son to the duke of Orleans who had assumed that name), stetenboffe, Desporets, and Drouet. The music played thepopu iar march of the Marseillois, and the soldiers rushed on with enthusiasm, shouting " Vive la nation.” The 
engagement 
was warm and bloody; the French were twice repulsed; but their impetuosity was at last irresistible, and about two o’clock the enemy fled from their last entrenchments. The loss on both sides was very great, that of the Austrians amounting to 400c. This victory was decisive of the fate of the Netherlands. Mons and Brussels surrendered to Dumourier; 'smurnay, Malines, Ghent, and Antwerp, were taken possession of by General Labourdonnaye; Louvain and Namur were taken by General Valence; and the whole Austrian Netherlands, Luxembourg pnly excepted, fell into the hands of the French : Liege was taken on the 28th of November after a successful engagement, in which thc Austrians lost 5 or 600 men and an immense train of artillery. 
France was now in a situation not unusual in.the history of those nations that either are free, or are at tempting to become so; successful in all quarters abroad, but distracted by factions at home. Ί he two parties in the convention were engaged in a struggle, which daily became more implacable. The party called the 
Mountain 
did not hêfitate about the nature of the means they were to employ to bring about the ruin of their antagonists. 1 hey are even suspected of having, through the medium of Sache the war minister, retarded the supply of the armies, to render the ruling party odious by want of success. They were for sometime, however, unfortunate in this respect; and the daily news of victories supported with the public the credit of the Girondists. A new subject was therefore fallen upon, which was the question, how the dethroned king was to be disposcd of? The moderate patty wished to save him; and this was a sufficient reason for their antago nill s to resolve upon his ruin. A committee was ap poiuted to give in a report upon his conduct. A variety of accusations were brought against him; and the convention insamously resolved co act the part of accusers and of judges. 
It was on the 1 1 th of December when the ill-fated monarch was ordered to the bar of the convention : the act of accusation was read, and the king was summon ed by the president, Barrere, to answer to each separate chargç. 
Prof. “
Louis, the French nation accnses you of having committed a multitude of crimes to establish your tyranny, in destroying her freedom. You, on the 20th of June 1789, attempted the sovereignty of the people, by suspending the assemblies of their represen tatives, and expelling them with violence from the places of their sittings. This is proved in the process verbal entered at the tennis court of Versailles by the members of the conststuent assembly. On the 23d of June you wanted to dictate laws to the nation; you surrounded their representatives with troops; you presented to them two royal declarations, subversive of all liberty, and ordered them to separate. Your own declarations, and the minutes of the assembly, prove these attempts, what have you to answer ?” 
Louis. 
"No laws were then existing to prevent me from it.” 
Prof 
"You ordered an army to march against the citizens of Paris. Your satellites have shed the blood of several of them, and you would not remove this army till the taking of the Bastile and a general insurrection. announced to you that the people were victorious. The 
