upon this occasion. For gondoliers who have lost the race often declare, that witchcraft had been practised against them, or certainly they muff have won the day. such a supposition prevents a poor fellow from thinking ill of himself; an opinion that might be favourable to him another time. 
The course is about four miles. The boats start srom a certain place, run through the great winding canal, which divides the town into two parts, turn round a picket, and, coming back the same way, go and seize the prize, which is sixed at the acutest angle of the great canal, on the convex side, so that the point of sight may be the more extended, and the prize seized in the sight of the spectators on both sides. 
According to the number of competitors, different races are performed in different sorts of boats; some with · one oar and others with two. The prizes proposed are four, indicated by four flags of different colours, with the different value of the prizes marked upon them. — These ssags, public and glorious monuments, are the prizes to which the competitors particularly aspire. But the government always adds to each a genteel sum of money; besides that the conquerors, immediately after the victory, are surroundtd by all the 
beau monde, 
who congratulate and make them pres'ilts; after which they go, bearing their honourable trophy in their hand, down the whole length of the canal, and receive the applause of innumerable spectators. 
This grand canal, ever striking by the Angularity and beauty of rile buildings which border it, is, upon these occasions, covered with an infinity of spectators, in all sorts of barges, boats, and gondolas. The ele ment on which they move is scarcely seen; but the noise of oars, the agitation of arms and bodies in perpetual motion, indicate the spectacle to be upon the water. At certain distances, on each side of the shore, are erected little amphitheatres and scaffoldings, where are placed bands of music; the harmonious sound of which predominates now and then over the buzzing noise of the people. .some days before a 
regata, 
one may see on the great canal many boats for pleasme and entertainment. The young noble, the citizen, the rich artisan, mounts a long boat of six or eight oars; his gondoliers decorated with rich and singular dresses, and the vessel itself adorned with various slnffs. Among thc nobles there are always a number who are at a considerable expense in these decorations; and at the 
regata 
itself exhibit on the water personages of mythologie story, with the heroes of antiquity in their train, or amuse themselves with representing the costumi of different nations; in short, people contribute with a mad sort of magnificence, from all quarters, to this masque rade, the favourite diversion of the Venetians. But these great machines, not being the less in motion on account of their ornaments, are not merely destined to grace the show : they are employed at the regata, at every moment, to range the people, to protect the course, and to keep the avenue open and clear to the goal. The nobility, kneeling upon cushions at the prow of their vessels, are attentive to these matters, and announce their orders to the most restive, by darting at them [little gilded or silvered balls, by means of certain bows, with which they are surnished on this occasion. 
And this is the only appearance of coercion in the Venetian police on these days of the greatest tumult : nor is there to be seen, in any part of the city, a body of guards or patrol, nor even a gun or a halbert. The mildness of the nation, its gaiety, its education in the habit of believing that the government is ever awake, that it knows and sees everything; its respectful attachment to the body of patricians; the foie aspect of certain officers of the police in their robes, disperscd in different places, at once operate and explain that tran quillity, that security, which we see in the midst of the greatest confusion, and that surprising docility in so lively and fiery a people. Regattas have been attempt ed on the river Thames, but they were but humble imi tations of the Venetian amusement. 
REGEL, or Rigel, a sixed star of the sirst magnitude, in orion’s left foot. 
REGENERATION, ill theology, the act of being born again by a spiritual birth, or the change of heart and life experienced by a person who forsakes a course of vice, and sincerely embraces a life of virtue and piety. 
regensburg, or Ratisbon. see Ratisbon. 
REGENT, one who governs a kingdom during the minority or absence of the king. 
In France, the queen mother had the regency of the kingdom during the minority of the king, under the title of 
queen regent. 
In England, the methods of anpointir/ this guardian or regent have been so various, and the duration of his power so uncertain, that from hence alont it may be collected that his office is unknown to the common-law; and. therefore (as sir Edward Coke says, 4 Inst. $8.) the fnrest way is to have him made by authority of the great council in parliament. The earl of Pembroke by his own authority assumed in very trou blesome times the regency of Henry III who was then only nine years old; but was declared of full age by the pope at 17, confirmed the great charter at ib, and took upon him the adminiffration of the government at 20. A guardian and councils of regency were named sor Edward III by the parliament, which deposcd his father; the young king being then 1 5, and not assuming the government till three years after, when Richard II succeeded' at the age of 11, the duke of Lancaster took upon him the management of the kingdom till the parliament met, rvhich appointed a nominal council to affisthim. Henry V on his deathbed named a regent and a gnar dian for his infant son Henry VI then nine months old i but the parliament altered his disposition, and appointed a protector and council, with a special limited authority. Both these princes remained in a state of pupilage till the age of 23. Edward V at the age of 13, was recommended by his sather to the care of the duke of f Gloucester; who was declared protector by the privy-council. The statutes 25 Hen. VIII C 12. and 28' Hen. VIII C 7. provided, that the successor, if a male and under 18, or if a female and under 16, should he till such age in the governance of his or her natural mother, (if approved by the king), and such other counsellors as his majesty should by will or otherwise appoint : and he accordingly appointed his 16 executors to have the government of his son Edward VI and the kingdom, which executors elected the eats of Hartford protector. Tlte statutes 24 Geo. II C 24. in cafe the crown should descend to any of the children of frede ric late prince of wales under the age of 18, appointed the princess dowager; — and that of 5 Geo. III C 
27. in case of a like descent to any öf his present ms jesty’s children, empowers the king to name either the 
