line 
of 
battle, to lead the convoys and squadrons of ships of war in action, and in general to fuit the different ex igencies of the naval service. 
The fourth rates may be employed on the same oc casions as the third rates, and may be also destined a amongst the foreign colonies, or on expeditions of great distance; since these vessels are usually excellent sor keeping and sustaining the sea. 
Vessels of the fifth rate are too weak to suffer the shock of a line of battle; but they may be destined to lead the convoys of merchant ships, to protect the com merce in the colonies, to cruise in different stations, to accompany squadrons, or be sent express with necessary intelligence and.orders. The same may be observed of the sixth rates. 
The frigates, which mount from 28 to 38 guns upon one deck, with the quarterdeck, are extremely proper for cruizing against privateers, or for short expeditions, being Tight, long, and usually excellent sailors. 
RATEEN, or Ratten, in commerce, a thick woollen stuff, quilled, woven on a loom with four treddles, like serges and other stusfs that have the whale or quilling. There are some rateens dressed and prepa red like clothes.; others left limply in the hair, and others where the ham or knap is frized. Rateens ate chiefly manufactured in France, Holland, and Italy, and are mostly used in linings. The frize is a sort of coarse 1 ateen, and the drugget is a rateen half linen half woel len. 
RATIFICATION, an act approving of and confirming something done by another in our name. 
RATIO, in arithmetic and geometry, is that relation of homogeneous things which determines the, quantity of one from the quantity of another, without the intervention of a third. 
Two numbers, lines, or quantities, A and B, being proposed, their relation one to another may be considered under one of these two heads : 1. How much A ex ceeds B, or B exceeds A? And this is found by taking A from B, or B from A, and is called 
arithmetic rea(, n, 
or 
ratio. 
2. Or how many times, and parts of a time, A contains B, or B contains A? And this is called 
geometric reason 
or 
ratio 
j (or, as Euclid defines it, it is the 
mutua habitude, 
or 
respect, 
of two magnitudes of the same kind, according to quantity; that is, as to how often the one contains, or is contained in, the other); and is found by dividing A by B, or B by A. And here note, that that quantity which is referred to another quantity is called the 
antecedent of the ratio; 
and that to which the other is referred is called the 
con 
fie 
quent of the ratio,;, 
as, in the ratio of ja to B, A is ’the antecedent, and B the ctnsequent. Therefore any „quantity, as antecedent, divided by any quantity as a consequent, gives the ratio of that antecedent to the consequent. 
Thus the ratio of A to B is but the ratio of B Jo 
to A is —; and, in numbers, the ratio of 12 to 4 ls A 
. .41 
— =3, or triple; but the ratio of 4 to 12 is -- - — -» or subtriple. 
And here note, that thc quantifies thui Gcmnared 
must 
be 
of thc same kind; that is, such as 
by 
mnltipli cation may be made to exceed one the other, or as these quantities are said to have a ratio between them, which, being multiplied, may be made to exceed one another. Thus a line, how short soever, may be multiplied, that is, produced fo long as to exceed any given right line; and consequently these may be compared together, and the ratio expressed : but as a line can never, by any multiplication whatever, be made to have Breadth, that is, to be made equal to a superficies, how small soever; these can therefore never be compared together, and consequently have no ratio or respect one to another, according to quantity; that is, as to how often the one contains, or is contained in, the other. see Quantity, RATIOCINATION, the act of reafonmg. see Reasoning. 
RATION, or Ratian, in the army, a portion of ammunition, bread, drink, and forage, distributed to each soldier in the army, for his daily subsistence, c. The horse have rations of hay and oats when they cannot go out to forage. The rations of bread are regulated by weight. The ordinary ration of a foot soldier is a pound and a half of bread per day. The offi cers have several rations according to their quality and the number of attendants they are obliged to keep. — when the ration is augmented on occasions of rejoicing, it is called a 
double ration. 
The ship’s crews have also their ratiofts or allowances of biscuit, pulse, and water, proportioned according to their stock. 
RATIONALE, a solution or account of the principles of some opinion, action, hypbthesis, phenomenon, or the like. 
RATIBOR, a town of Germany, in silesia, and capital of a duchy of the same name, with a castle. It has been twice taken by the swedes, and is seated on the river Oder, in a country fertile in corn and fruits, 15 miles northeast of Troppaw, and 142 east of Prague. E. Long. 22. 24. N. Lat. 50. 14. 
ratlsbon, an ancient, large, rich, handsome, and strong city of Germany, in Bavaria, free and imperial, with a bishop’s see, whose bishop is a prince of the empire, lt is called by the Germans Regenshurg, from the river Regens, which runs under a sine stone bridge, and throws itself into the Danube below the city; and the rivers Luber and Nab mix with it above the city. The French call it Ratisbon, in imitation of the Latins; it hath formerly been subject to the kings of Bavatia, who made it the place of their residence; but it was declared free by the emperor Frederick 1. which does not however hinder the dukes of Bavaria from •dividing the toll with the citizens, according to an agreement between them. Thgse princes have also the criminal jurisdiction, for which the magistrates of the city pay them homage, lt is the first city of the bench of suabia, and contains at present within its walls five different free states of the empire; namely, the bishop, the abbot of st Emmeran, the abbesses of the Low and High Munster, and the city. The inhabitants of Ratishon have the privilege not to be cited before other tribunals, unless for actions above 400 florins. The senate is composed 
of 
17 members, and there is a council of 10, which is charged with the government of the state. The citizens have a right to elect a chief, who judges of the affairs of police. The catholics have the exercise of their religion in the cathedral church, and others, and 
