in the neighbourhood of Maastricht. 
On 
the 15th 
of 
september the French attacked the whole Austrian posts in ak extent of sive leagues from Liege to Maastricht. On that and the following day the losses were nearly equal. On the 17th the French with 50 pieces of cannon attacked General Kray in his entrenched camp before Maestrscht. M. de Kray was already re tiring when General Clairfait arrived with a strong 
reinforcement, 
and after a severe combat the French were once more compelled to retire. On the 18th the French renewed the attack with tenfold fury upon every part of the Austrian line, and the whole was compelled to fly to the neighbourhood of aix la cha pelle. General Clairsait now chose a strong position on the banks 
of 
the Roer, where he even declared it to be his wish that he might be attacked. But by this time the spirit of his army was humbled, desertions became numerous, and the want of discipline was extreme. On the ist of October the French crossed the Maese and the Roer, and attacked the whole Austrian posts from Ruremond down to Juliers. After a bloody engagement, the brave and active, though unfortunate, General Clairfait was compelled hastily to cross the Rhine, with the loss of 10 or 1 2, 000 men. The French general did not attempt to cross that river, but one detachment of his army took possession of Coblentz, while others laid close siege to Venlo and Maastricht, which soon surrendered. 
The division of the French army, in the mean time, under General Pichegru came down upon Holland, and attacked the allied army under the duke of York between bois leduc and Grave. They forced the advanced post of Boxtel. lieutenant-general Abercromby was sent to attempt to recover this post on the 15th of september, but he found the French in such force that he was obliged to retreat. Indeed the French were discovered to 
be 
no less than 80, 000 strong in that neighbourhood. The duke of York was unable to contend against a for ce so superior, and retired across the Maese with the loss of somewhat less than 1500 men. Pichegru immediately laid siege to bois le duc. On the 30th of september, Crevecœur was taken, and bois leduc surrendered in 10 days thereafter. In it 408 French emigrants were taken grisoners; and these, as well as 700 that had been taken at Nieuportf 500 at sluys, and 
ι 
ico at Valenciennes, were all put to death, agreeably tt the rigorous law formerly made by the convention. The French now followed the duke of York across the Maese. Lspon this the greater part of the allied army under his royal highness crossed the Rhine and took post at Arnheim. The remaining part of the army sol lewed soon after, and Nimeguen was occupied by the French on the 7th of November. The duke of Brunswick was at this time requested to take the command of the allied army, to protect Holland, if possible. He came to Arnheim for that purpose; but after examining the state of things there, he declined the undertaking. The allied troops had now so often fled before their victorious and almost innumerable enemies, they had so often been in want of every necessary, and had been received so ill by the inhabitants of the countries through which they passed, among whom the French cause was extremely popular, that they had lost that regularity of conduct and discipline which alone can 
afford a secure prospect ef Iuccesa in military affaira. 
The French, on the 
contrary, well received, nbmshdlng in everything, and proud of fighting in a popular cause, now acted with much order, and submitted to the strictest diseipline. ln addition to all these advantages, the French leaders had the dexterity to pejsuade the world that new and unknown arts were employed to give aid to their cause. At this period the 
télégraphe 
was sirst used sor conveying intelligence from the frontiers to the capital, and from the capital to the frontiers. (see Télégraphe). Balloons were also used by the French during this campaign to procure knowledge of the position of the enemy. a11 engineer ascended with the balloon, which was suffered to rise to a great height, but prevented from flying away by a long cord. He made plans of the enemies encampment; and during an attack he sent down notice of every hostile move ment. In the affairs of men, and more especially in military transactions, opinion is of more importance than reality. The French soldiers confided in their own officers as men possessed of a kind of omniseience, while the allied troops, no doubt, beheld with anxiety a new contrivance employed against them, whose import ance would be readily magnified by credulity and ignorance. with all these advantages, however, after the capture of Nimeguen, they once more made a halt in their carrier, and abstained from the attack of Holland, which now seemed almost prostrate before them. 
while these events occurred in the north, the French arms were scarcely less successful on the side ef spain. Bellegarde was taken; in the western Pyrenees, fon tarabia surrendered, and also st sebastian; the whole kingdom of spain seemed panic struck. That feeble government, with an almost impregnable frontier, and the most powerful fortresses, could make little resistance; and the difficult nature of their country was their only protection. The history of this war is only a history of victories on the part of the French. In the Eastern Pyrenees, on the 17th of November, the French 
general 
Dugommier was killed in an engagement, in which his army was successful. On the 20th of that month the French again attacked the spaniards, and routed them by means of the bayonet, without firing a single musket shot. Tents, baggage, and cannon, for an ar my of 50, 000 men, fell into the hand of the conquerors, along with a great part of the province of Navarre. Towards the end of the year, an army of 40, 000 spa niards, entrenched behind 80 redoubts, the labour of six monthe, suffered themselves to be completely routed; their general count de La Union was found dead on the field of battle, and the whole spanish artillery was taken. In three days thereafter, the sort Fernando de Figuieres, containing a garrison of 9107 men, surrendered, although it mounted 171 pieces of cannon, and possessed abundance of provisions. The French continued their conquests; Rosas was taken, and the whole province of Catalonia was left at the mercy of the invaders. 
The succefses of this wonderful campaign were not yet terminated; and the last part of them is perhaps the most important, although no great effort was necessary to its execution. The winter now set in with uncom mon severity. For some years past the seasons of Europe had been uncommonly mild; there had been lit tle frost in winter, and no intense heat in summer. But during the late season. thc weather had long been re 
