<jf level 
exists, whatever ptolemy’s cngineers might have pretended to him; because, to suppose it fact, is to sup pose the violation of one very material law of nature.” 
The next thing considered by our author is the passage of the Israelitcs through the Red sea. At the place where he supposes the passage to have been, the sea is not quite four leagues broad, so that it might ea sily have been crossed in one night without any miracle. There is about 14 fathom water in the channel, and 9 at the sides, with good anchorage everywhere; the far thest side is a low sandy coast, and a very easy landing place. " The draught of the bottom of the gulf (fays he) given by Dr Pococke, is very erroneous in every part of it. It was proposed to Mr Niebuhr, when in Egypt, to inquire upon the spot, whether there were not some ridges of rocks where the water was shallow, so that an army at particular times might pass over? secondly, whether the Etesian winds, which blow strongly all summer from the northwest, could not blow so violently against the sea, as to keep it back on a heap, so that the Israelites might have passed with eut a miracle? And a copy of these queries was left for me to join my inquiries likewise. But I must con fess, however learned the gentlemen were who proposed these doubts, I did not think they merited any attention to solve them. If the Etesian winds, blowing from the northwest in summer, could heap up the sea as a wall on the right or to the south, of 50 seet high, still the difficulty would remain of building the wall on the left hand or to the north. Besides, water standing in that position for a day, must have lost the nature of a fluid, whence came that cohesion of particles that hindered that wall to escape at the sides? This is as great a miracle as that of Moses. If the Etesian winds had done this once, they must have repeated it many a time before and since, from the same causes. Yet dio dorus siculus says, the Troglodytes, the indigenous inhabitants of that very spot, had a tradition from father to fon, from their very earliest and remotest ages, that once this division of the sea did happen there; and that, after leaving the bottom some time dry, the sea again came back and covered it with great fury. I he words of this author are of the most remarkable kind, we cannot think this heathen is writing in favour of reve lation. He knew not Moses, nor says a word about Pharaoh and his host; but records the miracle of the division of the sea in words nearly as strong as those of Moses, from the mouths of unbiassed undesigning pagans.” 
R ed shank, 
in ornithology. see scolopax. 
red start, 
a species of Motacilla. 
Rp.d wing. 
seeturdus. 
redans, in field fortification. see the article Redens. 
REDDENDUM, in law, is used substantively for the clause in a lease wherein the rent is reserved to the lessbr. Tyre proper place for it is next after the limita tion of estate. 
REDDITIO, was the thmd part of the sacrisice of the heathens, and consisted of the solemn act of putting in again the entrails of the victims, after they had been religloufly inspected. see sacrifice. 
REDDLE, a soft, heavy, red marl, of great use 
in 
colouring; and being washed and freed from fand, 
is often sold by our druggists under the name of 
lole armenic. 
REDEMPTION, in law, a faculty or right of reentering upon lands, c. that have been sold and as signed, upon reimbursing the purchafe money with le gal costs. 
Redemption, in theology, denotes the recovery of mankind from sin and death, by the obedience and sacrisice of Christ, who on this account is called the 
Redeemer of the world. 
see Theology. 
redens, Redans, or 
Redant, 
in fortification, a kind of work indented in form of the teeth of a saw, with saliant and reentering angles; to the end that one part may flank or defend another. It is likewise called 
faw work 
and 
indented work. 
The lines or faces in this flank one another. 
Redens are used in fortifying walls, where it is not necessary to be at the expense of building bastions; as when they stand on the ssde of a river running through a garrison town, a marsh, the sea, chut the fault of such fortification is, that the besiegers from one battery may ruin both the sides of the tenaille or front of a place, and make an astault without fear of being enfiladed, since the defences are mined. The parapet of the corridor is likewise often redented or carried oa by the way of redens. The redens was used before bastions were invented, and some people think them preferable. 
REDI (Francis), an Italian physician and polite scliolar, was born at Arezzo in Tuscany in 1626. Hie ingenuity and learning recommended him to the office of sirst physician to Ferdinand II duke of Tuscany; and he contributed not a little toward the compiling of the Dictionary of La Crusca. He wrote upon vipers, upon the generation of insects, and composed a good deal of poetry. All his writings are in Italian; and his language is so sine and pure, that the authors of the Dictionary of La Crusca have often cited them as stan dards of perfection. He died in 1697. 
REDOUBT, in fortification, a small square fort, without any defence but in front; used in trenches, lines of circumvallation, contravallation, and approach; as also for the lodgings of corps de guard, and to defend passages. 
REDUCTION, in the schools, a manner of bring ing a term or proposition, which was before opposite to some other, to be equivalent to it. 
Reduction, in arithmetic, that rule whereby numbers of different denominations are brought into one de nomination. see Arithmetic. 
Reduction of Equations, 
in algebra, is the clearing them from all superssuous quantities, bringing them to their lowest terms, and separating the known from the unknown, till at length only the unknown quantity is found on one side, and known ones on the other. The reduction of an equation is the last part of the resolu tion of the problem. see Algebra. 
Reduction of a figure, design, or draught, is the making a copy thereof, either larger or smaller than the original; still preserving the form and proportion. The great use of the proportional compasses is the reduction of figures, c. whence they are called 
compasses of reduction. 
see the article Compass. 
There are various methods of reducing figures, c. 
