breach , to prevent the enemy from entering the city that way. At the same time, they detached a squadron of their best ships, under the command of Amyntas, who made over to the continent of Asia; and there meeting with some privateers who were commissioned by Demetrius, took both the ships and the men, among whom were Timocles the chief of the pirates, and several other officers of distinctson belonging to the fleet of Demetrius. On their return, they fell in with several vessels laden with corn for the enemy’s camp, which they likewise took,, and brought into the port. These were soon followed by a numerous fleet of small vessels loaded with corn and provisions sent them by Ptolemy, together with 1500 men, commanded by Antigonus a Macedonian of great experience in military affairs. — Demetrius, in the mean time, having repaired his ma chines, brought them up anew to the walls; which he i ncessantly battered till he opened a great breach and threw down several towers. But when he came to the assault, the Rhodians, under the command of Aminias, defended themselves with such resolution and intrepi dity., that he was in three successive attacks repulsed with great slaughter, aud at lass forced to retire. The Rhodians likewise, on this occasion, lost several officers; and amongst others, the brave Aminias their com mander. 
while the Rhodians were thus signalising them selves in the defence of their country, a second embassy arrived at the camp of Demetrius from Athens and the other cities of Greece, soliciting Demetrius to compose matters, and strike up a peace with the Rhodians. At the request of the ambassadors, who were in all above 50, a cessation of arms was agreed upon but the terms offered by Demetrius being anew rejected by the Rhodians, the ambassadors returned home without being able to bring the contending parties to an agree ment. Hostilities were therefore renewed; and deme trius, whose imagination was fertile in expedients for succeeding in his projects, formed a detachment of 1500 of his best troops, under the conduct of Alcimus and Mancius, two officers of great resolution and ex perience, ordering them to enter the breach at midnight, and, forcing the entrenchment behind it, to possess themselves of the posts about the theatre, where it would be no difficult matter to maintain themselves against any efforts of the townsmen. In order to fa cilitate the execution of so important and dangerous 
an 
undertaking, and amuse the enemy with false at tacks, he at the same time, upon a signal given, order ed the rest of the army to set up a shout, and attack the city on all sides both by sea and land. By this means he hoped that, the besieged being alarmed in ali parts, his detachment might find an opportunity of forcing the entrenchments which covered the breach, and afterwards of seizing the advantageous post about the theatre. This feint had all the success the prince could expect; for the troops having setup a shout from all quarters, as if they were advancing to a general assault, the detachment commanded by Alcimus and Mancius entered the breach, and fell upon those who defended the ditch, and the wall that covered it, with such vigour, that, having slain the most part of them and put the rest in confusion, they advanced to the theatre, and seized on the post adjoining to it. This ocassioned a general uproar in the city, as if it had been 
already taken : but the commanding officers dispatched orders to the soldiers on the ramparts not to quit their posts, nor stir from their respective stations. Having thus secured the walls, they put themselves at the head of a chosen body of their own troops, and of those who were lately come from Egypt, and with these charged the enemy’s detachment. But the darkness of the night prevented them from dislodging the enemy and regaining the advantageous posts they had seized. Day, however, no sooner appeared, than they renewed their attack with wonderful bravery. The Demetrians without the walls, with loud shosits endeavoured to animate those who had entered the place, and inspire them with resolution to maintain their ground till they were relieved with fresh troops. The Rhodians being sensible that their fortunes, liberties, and all that was dear to them in the world, lay at stake, fought like men in the utmost despair, the enemy defending their posts for several hours without giving ground in the least. At length the Rhodians, encouraging each other to exert themselves in defence of their country, and animated by the example of their leaders, màcîe a last effort, and, breaking into the very heart of the enemy’s battalion, there killed both their commanders. After their death the rest were easily put in disorder, and all to a man either killed or taken prisoners. The Rhodians likewise on this occasion lost many of their best commanders; and among the rest Damotetis, their chief magi strate, a man of extraordinary valour, who had signali zed himself during the whole time of the liege. 
Demetrius, not at all discouraged by this check, wae making the necessary preparations for a new assault, when he received letters from his sather Antigonus, en joining him to conclude a peace with the Rhodians upon the best terms he could get, lest he should lose his whole army in the siege of a iingle town. From this time Demetrius wanted only some plausible pre tence for breaking up the siege. The Rhodians likewise were now more inclined to come to an agreement than formerly; Ptolemy having acquainted them that he intended to send a great quantity of corn, and 30: 0 men to their assiftanre, but that he would first have them try whether they could make up matters with de metrius upon reasonable terms. At the same time ambassadors arrived from the Ætolian republic, solicitiiig the contending parties to put an end to a war which might involve all the east in endless calamities. 
An accident which happened to Demetrius in this conjuncture, did not a little contribute towards the wished for pacification. This prince was preparing to advance his helepolis against the city, when a Rhodian engineer found means to render it quite useless. He undermined the tract of ground over which the helepolis was to pasa the next day in order to approach the walls. Demetrius, not suspecting any stratagem of this nature, caused the engine to be moved forward, which coming to the place that was undermined, sunk so deep into the ground that it was impossible to draw it out again. This misfortune, if we believe Vegetius and Vitruvius, determined Demetrius to hearken to the Ætolian am bassadors, and at last to strike up a peace upon the sob lowing conditions: That the republic of Rhodes shoiild be maintained in the full enjoyment of their ancient rights, privileges, and liberties, without any foreign garrison; that they should renew thieir ancient alliance 
