years , if the body was not honoured with funeral rites. Among the scandinavians, a natural death was attended with infamy, while a violent death, particularly in battle, gave a title to sit in the halls of Odin, and to quaff beer from the skulls of enemies. Among the Tlascalans, it was only the great that were permitted. to animate birds and the nobler quadrupeds; the lower ranks were transformed into weasels, into paltry beetles, and such mean animals. Among the Mexicans, those who were drowned, who died of a dropsy, tumours, or wounds, or such like diseases, went along with the children that had been sacrisiced to the god of water, and in a cool and delightful place were allowed to indulge in delicious repasts and varieties of pleasures : those who died of other diseases, were sent to the north or centre of the earth, and were under the dominion of the gods of darkness" " he soldiers who died in battle, or in captivity among their enemies, and the women who died in labour, went to the house of the fun, who vvas considered as the prince of glory. In his mansions they led a life of endless delight. Every day the soldiers, on the first appearance of his rays, hailed his birth with rejoicings and with dancings, and the music of instruments and voices. At his meridian they met with the women, and in like festivity accompanied him to his setting. After four years of this glorious life, they went to animate clouds, and birds of beautiful feathers and of sweet song.; but always at liberty to rise again, if they pleased, to heaven, or descend. to the •earth, to warble their songs, and to suck flowers.” 
These sentiments of a suture state, conceived in a savage and a rude period, could not long prevail among an enlightened and civilised people, when the times of rapine and violence therefore began to cease; when societies regulated by certain laws began to be established; when martial prowess was less requisite, and the qualities of the heart had begun to give an importance to the character, the suture state was also modelled on 
a 
different plan. In the Æneid of Virgil, an author of a highly cultivated mind, and of polished manners, 
it 
becomes a place of the most impartial and unerring Justice; every one now receives a sentence suited to the actions of his past life, and a god is made to preside in judgement; 
who hears and judges each committed crime, 
Inquires into the manner, place, and time. 
The confciou's wretch must all his acts reveal, 
Loth to confess, unable to conceal, 
From the first moment of his vital breath, 
To the last hour of unrepenting death. 
The spirits of the dead no longer mingle toge there as in the less enlightened period of Homer ·; the vicious are dismissed to a place of torments, the virtuous sent to regions of bliss : indifferent characters are confined to 
a 
limbus *.; and those who are too virtuous for hell, but too much polluted with the stains of vice to enter heaven without preparation, are for some time detained ijr a purgatory. 
For there are various penances enjoin’d, 
And some are hung to bleach upon the wind? 
some plung’d in waters, others purg’d in fires, 
Till all the dregs are drain’d, and rust expires; 
Till nothing’s left of their habitual 
stasus, 
But the pure aether of the soul remains. 
w 
when thus purified, they become fitted to receive the rewards of their past virtues, and now enter into those regions of happiness and joy. 
with aether vested, and a purple 
sky, 
The blissful seats of happy souls below, 
stars of their own, and their own suns they know ♦ where patriots live, who, sor their country’s good, Infighting fields were prodigal of blood. 
•priests of unblemish’d lives here make abode, 
A nd poets worthy their inspiring god; 
A, nd searching wits, of more mechanic parts, who grac’d their age with new invented arts : 
Those who to worth their bounty did exteffid; 
And those who knew that bounty to commend. 
These good men are engaged in various amusements, according to the taste and genius of each. Orpheus is still playing on his harp, and the warriors are still de lighted with their chariots, their horses, and their arms. 
The place of torment is at some distaace. 
A gaping gulf, which to the centre lies, 
And twice as deep as earth is distant from the skies; From hence are heard the groans of ghosts, the pains Of founding lashes? and of dragging chains. 
Here, those who brother’s better claim disown, 
Expel their parents, and usurp the throne j Defraud their clients, and, to lucre fold, 
sit brooding on unprofitable gold. 
wi10 dare not give, and even resufe to lend, 
To their poor kindred, or a wanting friend. 
Vast is the throng of these; nor less the train Of lu stsul youths for soul adultscy siain. 
Hosts of deserters, who their honour sold, 
And basely broke their faith for bribes of gold ·: 
All these within the dungeon’s depth remain, Despairing pardon, and expecting pain. 
The souls of babes., of unhappy lovers, and some others, seem to be placed in a paradise of fools residing in a quarter distinct from Elylian Tartarus and Purgatory. 
It is curious to observe, how much these ideas of a suture state differ from the vague and simple conjec tures of rude nations; and yet from their simple and rude conjectures, we can easily trace the successive changes iu the writings of Homer, Plato, and Virgil; and may easily show, that those laws which different nations have prescribed for their dead, have always born the stiong est analogy to their state of improvement, their system opinions, and their moral attainments. some na tions, as those of India, have fancied a number of hea vens and hells, corresponding to some of their principal shadea in virtue and vice; and have filled each of these places respectively with all the scenes of happiness and misery, which friendship and hatred, admiration, contemptor rancour, could suggest, But having already observed the progress of the human mind in forming the grand and leading ideas of a future state, we mean not to descend to the modifications which may haye occurred tq particular nations, sects, or individuals. 
The belief of Chriilians respecting futurity demands our attention, as being founded on a different principle, namely, on express revelations from heaven. From many express declarations in scripture, all Christians seem to be agreed) that there iß 
a 
Leaven appointed for 
