which have been built for the convenience of sea bath in g 
RE IIMO, the ancient 
Rhitymnia 
of stephen the geographer, and called by Ptolemy 
Rhiiymna, 
is a sine city, lying at one end of a rich and fertile plain, on the north coast of the issan d of Candia. It is but a small place, containing scarce 6000 inhabitants; but it is a bishop’s see, and the harbour is defended by a citadel, where a bashaw resides. It was taken by the Turks in 1647, and has been in their hands ever since. It is about 45 miles from Candia. E. Long. 24. 45. N.lat. 35. 22. 
The citadel, which stands on a rock jutting out into the sea, would be sufficient for the defence of the city, were it not situated at the foot of an high hill, from which it might be cannonaded with great advantage. The harbour is now almost silled with fand, and is no longer accessible to shipping; nor do the Turks in any measure oppose the ravages of time, but behold with a careless eye the most valuable works in a state of ruin. The trench had formerly a vice-consul at Retimo, to which ships nsed to repair sor cargoes of oil; but they haye been long unable to get into the harbour : to repair which, however, and to revive the commerce of Retimo, would be a most usesul attempt. The plains around the city abound in a variety of productions. Great quantities of oil, cotton, saffron, and wax, are produced here; and they would be produced in still greater quantities if the inhabitants could export their commodities. The gardens of Retiino bear the best fruits in the isiand; excellent pomegranates, almonds, pistacho nuts, and oranges. The apricot tree, bearing the michmich, the juice of which is so delicious, and its flavour so exquisite, is found here. It is a kind of early peach, but smaller and more juicy than those of France, 
RETINA, in anatomy, the expansion of the optic nerves over the bottom of the eye, where the sense of vision is sirst received. see Anatomy, n 142. and Optics 
(Index) 
at 
Eye 
and 
Vision. 
RETINUE, the attendants or followers of a prince or person of quality, chiefly in a journey. 
RETIRADE, ill fortification, a kind of retrenchment made in the body of a bastion, or other work, which is to be disputed, inch by inch, after the defences are dismantled. It usually consists of two faces, which make a reentering angle, when a breach is made in a bastion, the enemy may also make a retirade or new fortification behind it. 
RE IIREMENT, means a private way of life or a secret habitation. “Few (says an elegant writer) are able to bear solitude; and though retirement is the osc tensible object of the greater part, yet, when they are enabled by success to retire, they feel themselves unhappy. Peculiar powers and elegance of mind are necessary to enable us to draw all our resources from ourselves. In a remote and solitary village the mind must be internally active in a great degree, or it will be miserable for want of employment. But in great and populous cities, even while it is passive, it will be constantly amused. It is impossible to walk the streets without finding the attention powerfully solicited on every side.. No exertion is necessary. Objects pour themselves into the senses, and it would be difficult to prevent their admittance. But, in, retirement, there wust be a spirit of philosophy and 
a store 
of learning, or else the fancied scenes of bliss will vanisli like the 
co 
lours of the rainbow. Poor Cowley might be said to be melancholy mad. He languished sor solitude, and, wished to hide himself in the wilds of America. But, alas! he was not able to support the solitude of a coun try village within a few miles of the metropolis! 
“with a virtuous and cheerful family, with a fevz' faithful and good-humoured friends, with a well select ed collection of elegant books, and with a competency, one may enjoy comforts even in the deserted village, ' which the city, with all its diversions, cannot supply.” 
RETORT, in chemistry, an oblong or globular vesa sel with its neck bent, proper for distillation. see Chemistry, n 576. 
In the fifth volume of the Transactions of the London society for the Encouragement of Arts, p. 96. we find a paper containing a method for preventing stone retorts from breaking; or stopping them when cracked, during any chemical operation, without losing any of the contained subject. " I have always found it necessary (says the writer) to use a previous coating for filling up the interstices of the earth or stone, which is made by dissolving two ounces of borax in a pint of boiling water, and adding to the solution as much slaked lime as will make it into 
a 
thin paste;; with 
a 
common painter’s brush, may be spread over several retorts, which when dry arc then ready for the proper preserving coating. The intention of this first coating is, that the substances thus spread over, readily vitrifying in the sire, prevent any of the distilling matters from pervading the retort, but does in nowise prevent it from cracking. 
"whenever I want to afe any of the above coated retorts; after I have charged them with the substance to be distilled, I prepare a thin paste, made with common linseed oil and slaked lime well mixed, and perfect ly plastic, that it may be easily spread : with this let the retorts be covered all over except that part of the neck which is to be inserted into the receiver; this is readily donc with a painter’s brush : the coating will be sufficiently dry in a day or two, and they will then be sit for use. with this coating I have for several years worked my stone retorts, without any danger of their breaking, and have frequently used the same retort four or live times; observing particularly to coat ■ it over with the last mentioned composition every time ’ it is charged with fresh materials: Before I made use of this expedient, it was au even chance, in conducting operations in stone and earthen retorts,, whether theyj did not crack every time; by which means great loss has been sustained. ls at any time during the opera tion the retorts should crack, spread fame of the oil composition thick on the part, and sprinkle some pow der of slacked lime on it, and it immediately stops the sissure, and prevents any of the distilling matter from pervading; even that subtle penetrating substance the solid phosphorus will not penetrate through it. It may be applied without any danger, even when the retort is red hot; and when it is made a little stiffer, is more proper for luting vessels than any other I ever have tried; because if properly mixed it will never crack, nor will it indurate fo as to endanger the breaking the necks of the vessels when taken off.” 
retracts, among horsemen, pricks in a horse’s seet, arising from the fault of the farrier in driving nails 
