will be proportional to the squares of the veiocities di rectly, and to the chords of curvature haviag the direction of the forces inversely. 
From these premises, therefore, we deduce, irr the strictest manner, the demonstratson of the leading theorem of the resistance and impulse of fluids; namely, 
cîprop. I. The resistances, and (by the third law of motion), the impulsions of fluids on similar bodies, are proportional to the surfaces of the solid bodies, to the densities of the fluids, and to the fquates of the ve locities, jointly. 
We must now observe, that when we suppofethe par tides of the fluid to be in mutual contact, we may ei there suppose them elassic or unelastic. The motion communicated to the collection of elastic particles must be double of what the same body, moving in the same manner, would communicate to the particles of an unelastic fluid. The impulse and resistance of elastic fluids must therefore be double of those of unelastic fluids. — But we must caution our readers not to judge of the elasticity of fluids by their sensible compreffibility. A diamond is incomparably more elastic than the sinest football, though not compressible in any sensible degree. — Jt remains to be decided, by well chosen experiments, whether water be not as elastsc as air. If we suppose, with Bofcovich, the particles of perfect fluids to be at a distance from each other, we shall sind it difficult to conceive a fluid void of elasticity. we hope that the theory of their impulse and resistance wili suggest experiments which will decide this question, by pointing out what ought to be the absolute impulse or resistance in either case. And thus the fundamental proposition of the impulse and resistance of fluids, taken in its pro per meaning, is sufceptible of a rigid demonstration, re lative to the only distinct notion that we can form of the internal constitution of a fluid. We say, 
taken in its proper meaning; 
namely, that the impulse or resistance of fluids is a pressure, opposed and measured by another pressure, such as a pound weight, the force of a spring, the pressure of the atmosphere, and the like. And we apprehend that it would he very difficult to sind any legitimate demonstration of this leading proposttion different from this, which we have now borrowed from sir isaac Newton, Prop. 23,. B. II 
Princip. We 
ac kncwledge that it is prolix and even circuitous : but in all the attempts made by his commentators and their copyists to simpiify it, we see great defects of logical argument, or assumption of principles, which are not only gratuitous, but inadmissible. we shall have occa sion, as we proceed, to point out some of these defects; and doubt not but the iliustrious author of this demonstration had exercised his uncommon patience and sagacity in similar attempts, and was diffatissied with them all. 
Before we proceed further, it vyill be proper to m>ke a general remark, which will save a great deal of discussion. since it is a matter of universal experience, that every action of a body on others is accompanied by an equal and contrary reaction;; since all that we can demonstrate concerning the resistance of bodies during their motions through fluids proceeds on this sup positioil, (the resistance of ( the body being 
ajfumed 
as equal and opposite to the sum of motions communicated to the particles of the fluid, estimated in the direction of the bodies motion), we are entitled to proceed in the contrary ordfer, and to consider the impulsions which each of the particles of fluid exerts on the body at rest, as equal and opposite to the motion which the body would communicate to that particle if the fluid were at rest, and the body were moving equally swift in the opposite direction. And therefore the whole impulsion of the fluid must be conceived as the measure of the whole motion which the body would thus communicate to the fluid. It must therefore be also considered as themeasurcof the resistance which the body, moving with the same velocity, would sustain from the fluid, when, therefore, we shall demonstrate anything concerning the impulsion of a fluid, estimated in the direction of its motion, we must consider it as demonstrated concerning the refinance of a quiescent fluid to the motion of that body, having the same velocity in the opposite direction. The determination of these impulsions being much easier than the determination of the motions communicated by the body to the particles of the fluid, this method will be followed in most of the subsequent discuffions. 
The general proposition already delivered is by no means sufficient for explaining the various important phenomena observed in the mutual actions of solids and fluids. In particular, it gives us no assistance in ascer taining the modifications of this resistance or impulse, which depend on the shape of the body and the incli nation of its impelled or resisted surface to the direction of the motion. sir Isaac Newton found another hypothesis necessary; namely, that the fluid should be so extremely rare that the distance of the particles may be incomparably greater than their diameters. This addi tional condition is necessary for considering their actions as so many separate collisions or impulsians on the solid body. Each particle must be supposed to have abundant room to rebound, or otherwise escape, after having made its stroke, without sensibly affecting the situations and motions of the particles which have not yet made their stroke : and the motion must be so swift as not to give time for the sensible exertion of their mutual forces of attractions and repulsions. 
Keeping these conditions in mind, we may proceed to determine the impulsions made by a fluid on surfaces of every kind : And the mosh convenient method to pursue in this determination, is to compare them ail either with the impulse which the 
same Jurface 
would re ceive from the fluid impinging on it perpendicularly, or with the impulse which the 
same fream of fluid 
would make when coming perpendicularly on a surface of such extent as to occupy the whole stream. 
It will greatly abbreviate language, if we make use of a few terms in an appropriated sense. 
By 
aflream, 
we shall mean a quantity of fluid moving in one direction, that is, each particle moving in paral lel lines; and the 
breadth 
of the stream is a line perpen dicular to all these parallels. 
A 
filament 
means a portion of this stream of very small breadth, and it consists of an indefinite number of particles following one another in the same direction, and successively impinging on, or gliding alono, the sursace of the solid body. 
The 
base 
of any furface'exposed to a. stream of fluid, is that portion of a plane perpendicular to the stream, which is covered or protected from the action of the stream by the sursace exposed to its impulse. Thus the base of a sphere exposed to a 
stream of 
fluid is its great 
