sct out at two o’clock a prisoner in the 
scustody 
of the 
mob. Two gentlemen were selected from his body guard, and, with all the parade of an execution, be headed in the court of his palace. Their heads were stuck upon spears, and led the procession;; the royal captives who followed in the train, and beheld this spectacle, were conducted so slowly, that a short journey of twelve miles was protracted to six hours. The king, the queen, and their children, were lodged in the old palace of the Louvre, while Monsieur went to reside at the Luxemburg. The city was illumina ted, and the evening spent in triumph by the pari sians. 
The removal of the king to Paris was regarded as a triumph by the popular party. The higher order of nobles considered it as completely ruinous to their hopes; and even many men of talents, such as Mounier and Lally Tollendal, whom we cannot avoid regarding as friends to the popular cause in its out set, now regarded every prospect of attaining a happy constitution al freedom as at an end, as the national representatives must be for ever exposed to the insults, and overawed by the influ<gice, of a turbulent capital. Many members of the assembly took refuge in foreign countries, and used every effort to excite the other nations of Europe to hostility against France. As the duke of Orleans had been regarded as a chief agent in promoting the late disturbances, the marquis de lafayette waited upon him, and insisted upon his leaving the kingdom for a time. The duke was overawed, and, on pretence of public business, went to England, where he remained sor several months. 
On the ι 9 th of October, the National Assembly held its first session in Paris. The King was closely guarded in his own palace; and no apparent opposition now stood in the way to prevent the popular party from giving to their country such a constitution as they might judge expedient. Much, however, was yet to be done, and many difficulties remained, resulting from the habits of men educated under a very different order of things. Two days after the Assembly came to Paris, a baker was publicly.executed by the mob, upon a false accusation of having concealed a quantity of bread. — while the Assembly was at a distance, events of this nature had been little attended to, and the leading party avoided attempting to check these ebullitions of popular violence, from which they had derived fo much advantage; but that party was now all powersuh and so flagrant an offence committed against the law was regarded as an insult upon the sovereignty of the National Assembly. Two leaders of the mob were therefore tried and publicly executed, and a severe law was pase sed, of the nature of the British riot act, authoriling the magistrates to act by military force against any multitude of persons that should resufe to disperse. Thus the peace of the capital was secured for several months; but in the country at large no small degree of anxiety and trouble still fubsisted. The same suspieious temper which had prevailed at Paris agitated the provinces with the dread of plots and monopolies of grain. Add to this, that the noblesse in the country were by no means satisfied with the liberality with which their representatives had on the 4th of August voted away their privileges and their property. This produced 
violent jealousies between the peasants and their lords, 
and gradually conveyed to every corner of the kingdom the political ferment which had commenced at Paris. 
The National Assembly being now, however, in to lerable security, proceeded in the arduous attempt of forming 
a 
free constitution for the great empire of France. The Abbé sieyes presented a plan for dividing the kingdom into 83 
departments, 
of about 324 square leagues, and of each department into several 
districts, 
and each district was subdivided into 
cantons 
of four square leagues in extent. Thus the whole of the ancient divisions of the kingdom into governments, generalities, and bailiewicks, was in an instant obliterated. An attempt vvas also made to simplisy in an equal degree the relative situation of individuals in civil life, by a decree which put an end to all distinction of orders and immunities, so far as any privilege whatever was concerned. At the same time, a bold and most im portant measure was adopted, which has since proved the organ of those terrible efforts which France has been enabled to make against the rest of Europe. This was the consiscation of the whole of the lands belonging to the church, for the purpose of supplying the exigencies of the state. In this transaction, all regard to justice was thrown aside. The lands of the church were as certainly the property of the then posseisors of them as any entailed estate among us is the property of him who occupies it. The state may have had a right to appropriate to itself the church lands upon the death of the incumbents; but it might with equal justice, and perhaps greater propriety, have seized the enormous re venues of the Duke of Orleans, as have confiscated a single acre belonging to the most useless abbot without his own consent. This nefarious measure was pro -- posed by the bishop of Autun, M. T allegrand peri gord, a man of no religion, who had been promoted to the bench in a most irregular manner to serve this very purpose. The mode in which this property was to be expended was by issuing affiguments 
(assignats) 
upon it; which assignments were to be received by the state for the payment of taxes, or for the purchase of church lands when set up to sale. A provision was at the same time made for the national clergy, who were for the future to be paid by the state. On the day follow ing that on which this important measure was adopted, a decree was passed, suspending the parliaments of the kingdom from the exercise of their functions. 
Decrees, in which the interests of so vast a multitude of individuals were involved, could not be carried into effect without much murmuring and opposition. Thc parliaments, in particular, began to exert themselves with vigour, and, by protests and other publications, attempted to invalidate the decrees of the Assembly as illegal; but these privileged bodies, who had often been accustomed to contend with some success against the despotic administration of their country, and 
011 
that account had been for ages the objects of public ap plause, now found themselves utterly forsaken, and unable to resist the mandate of a popular Assembly. After a sew fruitless struggles, they were all of them under the necessity of submitting to their fate. 
Nothing remarkable now .occurred for some time. — The Assembly proceeded to organise the kingdom by the establishment of municipalities, and by reforming the jurisprudence of thc country. It is to b.c. observed, however, that when the parliament of Paris was abo 
