the 
prcffiirê may be almost annihilated by the 
tendency 
to rebound of thc inner filaments. 
Part (and perhaps a considerable part) of this appa rent non preffion is undoubtedly produced by the tenacity of the water, which licks oss with it the water lying in the hole. But, at any rate, this is an important fact, and gives great value to these experiments. Tt gives a key to many curious phenomc na in the resistance of fluids; and the tlieory of Mr Buat deserves a very serious consideration. It is all contained in the two following 'propqsitions. 
1. " 
If, by any cause whatever, a column of fluid, whether making part of an indefnit: fluid, or contained in olid canals, comes to move with a given velocity, the pressure • it exerted laterally before its motion, either on the adjoining fluid or on the sides of the canal, is diminished by the 
weight of a column having the height necessary for communicating the velocity of the motion. 
2. " The pressure on the centre of a plane surface perpendicular to theflream, and wholly immersed in it, is 
4- cf 
the weight of a column having the height necessary for communicating the velocity. For 
33 
is 
1 ο/’ 
21 
4·” 
He attempted to ascertain the medium pressure on the whole fursace, by opening 625 boles dispersed all over it. with the same velocity of current, he found the height in the tube to be 29 lines, or 7^ more than the height necessary for producing the velocity. But he justly concluded this to be too great a measure, because the holes were of an inch from the edge : had there been holes at the very edge, they would have sustained a non pleffion, which would have diminished the height in the tube very considerably » He exposed to the same stream a conical funnel, which raised the water to 34 lines. But this could not be considered as a measure of the pressure on a plane solid surface : sot the central water was undoubtedly scooped out, as it were, and the filaments much more deflected than they would have been by a plane surface. Perhaps something of this happened even in every small hole in the for mer experiments. And this suggests some doubt as to the accuracy of the measurement of the pressure and of the velocity of a current by Mr pitot’s tube. It surely renders some corrections absolutely necessary. It is a fast, that when exposed to a vein of fluid coming through a short passage, the water in the tube ssands on a level with that in the reservoir. Now we know that the velocity of this stream 
does not 
exceed what would be produced by a fall equal to Quo of the head of water in the reservoir. Mr Buat made many valuable observations and improvements on this most useful instrument, which will be taken notice of in the articles Rivers and 
watf.r wsrks. 
Mr Buat, by a scrupulous attention to all the circum stances, concludes, that the medium of pressure 011 the 
25.5 
whole sursace is equal to of the weight of a co 
21 
.5 
lumn, having the snrface for its base, and the produc tive fall for its height. But we think that there is an uncertainty in this conclusion; because the height of the water in the vertical tube was undoubtedly augmented by an hydrostatical pressure arising from the accumulation of water above the. body which was exposed to the stream. 
since the pressures are as the squares of the velocities, 
or as the heights 
h 
which produce the velocities, 
we may express this pressure by the smybol — 
— h, 
or 
Ϊ, ι86/?, or 
m h, 
the value of 
m 
being 1, 186. This exceeds considerably the result of the experiments of the French academy. In these it does not appear that 
m 
sensibly exceeds unity. Note, that in these experi ments the body was moved through still water; here it is exposed to a stream. These are generally supposed to be equivalent, on the authority of the third law of 
motion, 
which makes every action depend on thc 1 elative motions. we shall by and by see some causes of difference. 
The writers on this subject seem to think their task completed when they have considered the action of the stuid on the anterior part of the body, or that part of it which is before the broadest se.'tion, and have paid little or no attention to the hinder part. Yet those who are most interested in the subject, the naval architects, seem convinced that it is of no less importance to attend to the form of the hinder part of a ship. And the universal practice of all nations has been to make the hinder part more acute than the sore part. This has undoubtedly been deduced from experience; for it is in direct opposition to any notions which a person would naturally form on this subject. Mr Buat therefore thought it very necessary to examine the action of the water on the hinder part of a body by the same method. And, previous to this examination, in order to acquire some scientisic notions of the subject, he made the following very curious and instru'.tive experiment. 
Two little conical pipes AB (fig. 22.) were inserted into the upright side of a prismatic vessel. They were an inch long, and their diameters at the inner and outer ends were five and four lines. A was 
<; q 
lines under the surface, and B was 73. A glass fyplion was made of the shape represented in the sigure, and its internal diameter was 1 £ lines. It was placed with its mouth in the axis, and even with the bale of the conical pipe. The pipes being shut, the vessel was filled with water, and it was made to stand 
on 
a level in the two legs of the syphon, the upper part being full of air. when this syphon was applied to the pipe A, and the water running freely, it rose 3 2 lines in the short leg', and sunk as much in the other, when it was applied to the pipe B, the water rose 41 lines in the one leg of the syphon, and sunk as much in the other. 
He reasons in this manner srom the experiment. The ring comprehended between the end of the syphon and the sides of the conical tube being the narrowest part of the orisice, the water istued with the velocity cor responding to the height of the water in the vessel above the orifice, diminished for the contraction. If therefore the cylindcr of water immediately before thc mouth of the syphon issued with the same velocity, the tube would be emptied through a height equal to this head of water, 
charge). 
If, on the contrary, this cylinder of water, immediately before the mouth of the syphon, were stagnant, the water in it would exert its full pressure on the mouth of the syphon, and the water in the syphon would be level with the water in the vessel. Between these extremes we must find the real state of the case, and we must measure the force of non pressure by the 
L 
ife of the water in the syphon. 
we see that in both experiments it bears an accurate 
