against the walls stones of 150 pounds weight. The towers, being thus furiously battered night and day, began to totter, and several breaches were opened in the walls : but the Rhodians, unexpectedly sallying out, drove the enemy from their post, overturned their machines, and made a most dreadful havoc; insomuch that some of them retired on board their vessels, and were with much ado prevailed upon to come ashore again. 
Demetrius now ordered a scalade by sea and land at the same time; and so employed the besieged, that they were at a loss what place they should chiefly de send. The attack was carried on with the utmost fury on 
all sides, and the besieged defended themselves with the greatest intrepidity. such of the enemy as advan ced first were thrown down from the ladders, and mi serably bruised. several of the chief officers, having mounted the walls to encourage the soldiers by their example, were there either killed or taken prison ers. After the combat had lasted many hours, with great slaughter on both sides, Demetrius, notwith standing all his valour, thought it necessary to retire, in order to repair his engines, and give his men some days rest, 
Demetrius being sensible that he could not reduce the city till he was master of the port, after having refreshed his men, he returned with new vigour against the fortifications which defended the entry into the harbour, when he came within the cast of a dart, he caused a vast quantity of burning torches and firebrands to be thrown into the Rhodian ships, which were riding there; and at the same time galled, with dreadful showers of darts, arrows, and stones, such as offered to extinguish the flames. However, in spite of their utmost efforts, the Rhodians put a stop to the fire; and, having with great expedition manned three of their strongest ships, drove with such violence against the vessels on which the enemy’s machines were planted, that they were shattered in pieces, and the engines dismounted and thrown into the sea. Excestus the Rhodian admiral, being encouraged by this success, attacked the enemy’s fleet with his three ships, and sunk a great many vessels; but was himself at last taken prisoner : the other two vessels made their escape, and 
regained the port. 
As unfortunate as this last attack had proved to de metrius, he determined to undertake another; and, in order to succeed in his attempt, he ordered a machine of a new invention to be built, which was thrice the height and breadth of those he had lately lost. when the work was finished, he caused the engine to be placed near the port, which he was resolved, at all adventures, to force. But as it was upon the point of entering the harbour, a dreadful storm arising, drove it against the shore, with the vessels on which it had been reared. The besieged, who were attentive to improve all favourable conjunctures, while the tempest was still raging, made a sally against those who defended the eminence mentioned above; and, though repulsed several times, carried it at last, obliging the Demetrians, to the number of 400, to throw down their arms and submit. After this victory gained by the Rhodians, there arrived to their aid 150 gnos sians, and 500 men sent by Ptolemy from Egypt, most of them being natives of Rhodes 
, 
who had served 

among the king’s troops. 
Demetrius being extremely mortified to 
see all his batteries against the harbour rendered ineffectual, re solved to employ them by land, in hopes of carrying the city by assault, or at least reducing it to the necessity of capitulating, with this view, having got together a 
vast quantity of timber and other materials, he framed the famous engine called 
helepolis, 
which was by many degrees larger than any that, had ever been invented before. Tts basis was square, each side being in length near 50 cubits, and made up of square pieces of timber, bound together with plates of iron. In the middle part he placed thick planks, about a cubit distance from each other; and on these the men were to stand who forced the engine forward. The whole was moved upon eight strong and large wheels, whose felloes were strengthened with strong iron plates. In order to facilitate and vary the move ments of the helepolis, casters were placed under it, whereby it was turned in an instant to what side the workmen and engineers pleased. From each of the four angles a large pillar of wood was carried to about the height of 100 cubits, and inclining to each other; the whole machine consisting of nine stories, whose dimensions gradually lessened in the ascent. The first story was supported by 43 beams, and the last by no more than nine. Three sides of the machine were plated over with iron, to prevent its being damaged by the fire that might be thrown from the city. In the front of each story were windows of the same size and shape as the engines that were to be discharged from thence. To each window were shutters, to draw up for the defence of those who managed the machines, and to deaden the force of the stones thrown by the enemy, the shutters being covered with skins stuffed with wool. Every story was furnished with two large staircases, that whatever was necessary might be brought up by one, while others were going down by the other, and so everything may be dispatched without tumult or confusion. This huge machine was moved forwards by 3000 of the strongest men of the whole army; but the art with which it was built greatly facilitated the motion. Demetrius caused likewise to be made several testudoes or pent houses, to cover his men while they advanced to sill up the trenches and ditches; and invented a new sort of galleries, through which those who were employed at the siege might pass and re pass at their pleasure, without the least danger. He employed all his seamen in levelling the ground over which the machines were to be brought up, to the space of four furlongs. The number of workmen who were employed on this occasion amounted to 30, 000. 
In the mean time, the Rhodians, observing these formidable preparations, were busy in raising a new wall within that which the enemy intended to batter with the helepolis. In order to accomplish this work, they pulled down the wall which surrounded the theatre, some neighbouring houses, and even some temples, after having solemnly promised to build more magnifi cent structures in honour of the gods, if the city were preserved. At the same time, they sent out nine of their best ships to seize such of the enemy’s vessels as they could meet with, and thereby distress 
them for 
