jurions to 
society. If religion of any kind has ever lessened the virtue or disturbed the peace of men, it must have been that religion which springs from a belief in a multitude of superior powers actuated by pase ficns, and of whom some were conceived as benevolent and others as malicious beings. That such sentiments should have produced vices unknown in societies where pure theism is professed, will be readily admitted. Even the few 
atheißs 
who live in Christian or Mahometan countries are restrained by the laws, by a desire to promote the honour of the sect, and by many other con siderations, from indulging in practises which the example of the false gods of antiquity sanctioned in their votaries. But in determining the present question, we must not compare the virtues of the pagan world with those of individual atheists in modern Europe, but with those of 
nations 
professing atheism; and such nations are nowhere to be found. We can however easily conceive, that in a society unawed by any notions of God or a future state, no such laws would be enacted as those which restrain the sensual appetites; of which the criminal indulgence was one of the greatest stigmas on the pagan worship of antiquity. In such societies, therefore, those vices would be practised constantly to which paganism gave only an occasional sanction;; many others, in spite of the utmost vigilance of human laws, would be perpetrated in secret, which the most profligate pagans viewed with horror. Conscience, though acting with all her energy, would not be able to command any regard to the laws of morality : No virtue would be known; social order would be nowhere observed; the midnight assassin would everywhere be found; and in the general scramble mankind would be exterminated from the face of the earth. 
The worst species of paganism, even that which pre vails among savages who worship evil spirits, affords greater security than this. It is indeed shocking to think that demons should be worshipped, while deities, who are regarded as being all benevolence, are treated with contempt: And it has been asked, If the influence of such religious sentiments on the moral practice of the idolaters must not naturally be, to cause them to treat their friends and benefactors with ingratitude, and to humble themselves with mean submission before a powerful enemy? 
They do not appear to have produced such effects 
on 
the morality of the savages by whom they were entertained. The benevolent deities were neglected, only because their benevolence was necessary. À voluntary iavour merits a grateful return : a designed injury provokes resentment. But when you become, by accident, the instrument of any man’s good fortune, the world will scarce conssder him as owing you any obligation : the stone which bruises your foot excites only a momentary emotion of resentment. Those gods who could not avoid doing good to men might not receive a pro fwsion of thanks for their services; and yet a favosir conferred by an human benefactor commands the warmest 

gratitude. But those rude tribes appear to have had fo much wisdom âs to confer a less absolute malice on their malevolent deities, than the benevolence which they attributed to their more amiable order of superior beings : though the latter could not possibly do them anything but good, and that constantly; yet the former were not under an equally indispensable neceisity of persevering in 'depressing them under calamities. On their malevolent deities they conferred a freedom of agency which they denied tö the benevolent. No won der, then, that they were more assiduous in paying their court to the one than to the other. They might with as much propriety have thought of being grateful to the boar or stag whose ssesh supported them, as to deities who were always benevolent, because they could not possibly be otherwise. Though negligent of such. deitiete, this can scarce be thought to have had any tendency to render them ungrateful to benefactors like themselves. And yet, it must not be dissembled, that the American Indians, among whom such religion sentiments have been found to prevail, are said to be very little senssble to the emotions of gratitude. Art Indian receives a present without thinking of making any grateful acknowledgments to the bestower. He pleases his fancy or gratifies his appetite with what you have given, without seeming to consider himself as under the smallest obligation to you for the gift. 
It may be doubted, however, whether this spirit of ingratitude originates srom, or is only collateral with, that indifference which refuses adoration and worship to the benevolent divinities. If the former be actually the case, we must acknowledge that those religious notion's which we now consider, though preferable to general atheism, are in this respect unfriendly to virtue. But if the Indians may be thought to owe the ingratitude for which they are distinguished to the opinion which they entertain of the existence of a benevolent order of deities, whose benevolence is necessary and involuntary, their ideas of the nature of their malevolent demons do not appear to have produced equal effects on their moral sentiments. However submissive to those dreaded beings, they are far from showing the same tame and cowardly submission to their human enemies : towards them they seem rather to adopt the sentiments of their demons. Inveterate rancour and brutal fury, inhuman cruelty and inconceivable cunning, are displayed in the hostilities of tribes at war; and we know not, after all, if even these sentiments do not owe somewhat of their force to the influence of religion. 
Yet let us remember that these same Indians have not been always represented in so unamiable a light; or, at least, other qualities have been ascribed to them which seem to be inconsistent with those barbarous dis posstions. They have been described as peculiarly susceptible of conjugal and parental love; and he who is so cannot be destitute of virtue. 
2. But leaving the religion of savages, of which very little is known with certainty, let us proceed to examine what is the natural influence of that mixed system 
of 
theology which represents to the imagination of men a number of superior and inferior divinities, actuated by the same passions and feelings with themselves, and often making use of their superior power and knowledge for no other purpose but to enable them to violate the laws of moral order with impunity. This is the cele brated polytheism of the Greeks and Romans, and most other nations of antiquity (see Polytheisim). Could its influence be favourable to virtue? 
At a sirst view every person will readily declare, that such a system must have been friendly to profligacy. If you commit the government of the universe, and the inspection of human society, to a sct of beings who are 
