ents ; 
which was certainly some 
enormous 
species 
of 
ray, though we cannot pretend to determine the par ticular kind. Oppian styles it, 
the broadest among fish : 
he adds an account of its fondness of human flesh, and the method it takes of destroying men, by over laying and keeping them down by its vast weight till they are drowned. Phile 
(De propriet, anim. 
p. 85.) gives much the same relation. 
W 
e are inclined to give them credit, since a modern writer, of undoubted authority, *, the very same account of a fish found in the south seas, the terror of those employed in the pearl.fishery. It is a species of ray, called there 
man ta, 
or the 
quilt, 
from its surrounding and wrapping up the unhappy diverse till they are suffocated; there fore the negroes never go down without a sharp knife to defend themselves against the assaults of this terrible enemy. 
3. The aspera, or rough ray, is found in Loch broom in scotland. The length from the nose to the tip of the tail is two feet nine. The tail is alraost of the same length with the body. The nose is very short. Before each eye is a large hooked spine; and behind each another, beset with lesser. The upper part of the body is of a cinereous brown mixed with white, and spotted with black; and entirely covered with small spines. On the tail are three rows of great spines : all the rest of the tail is irregularly beset with lesser. The sins and under fide of the body are equally rough with the upper. The teeth are flat and rhomboidal. 
4. The fullonica, or fuller, derives its Latin name from the instrument fullers make use of in smoothing cloth, the back being rough and spiney. The nose is short and sharp. At the corner of each eye are a few spines. The membrane of nictitation is fringed. Teeth small and sharp. On the upper part of the pectoral sins are three rows of spines pointing towards the back, crooked like those on a fuller’s instrument. On the tail are three rows of strong spines: the middle row reaches up part of the back. The tail is siender, and rather longer than the body. The colour of the upper part of the body is cinereous, marked usually with numerous black spots : the lower part is white. This, as well as most other species of rays, vary a little in colour, ac cordmg to age. This grows to a size equal to the skate. It is common at scarborough, where it is called the 
white hans, 
or 
gullet. 
5. The shagreen ray increases to the size of the skate; is fond of lances or sand eels, which it takes generally as a bait. The form is narrower than that of the common kinds; the nose long and very sharp; pupil of the eye sapphirine; on the nose are two short rows of spines; on the corner of the eyes another of a semicircular form; on the tail are two rows, continued a little up the back, small, siender, and very sharp : along the sides of the tail is a row of minute spines. intermixed with innumerable little fpiculæ. The upper part of the body is of a cinereous brown, covered closely with shagreen like tubercles, resembling the skin of the dogfish: the under side of the body is white; from the nose to the beginning of the pectoral sins is a tuberculated space. The teeth slender, and sharp as needles. 
6. The torpedo, cramp fish, or electric ray, is frequently taken in Torbay : has been once caught off Pembroke, and sometimes near waterford in Ireland. It is generally taken, like other flat fish, with the trawl; but there is an instance of its taking the bait. It 
commonly 
lies in 
water 
of about 40 fathoms depth; and m company with the congenerous rays. The. torpedo, brings forth its yo ung at the autumnal equinox, as affirmed by Aristotle. A gentleman of La Rochelle, on dissecting certain females of this species, the 10th of september, found in the matrices several of the fœtuses quite formed, and nine eggs in no state of forwardness : fuperfœtation seems therefore to be a property of this sish the food 
of 
the torpedo is sish; a surmullet and a plaise have been found in the stomach of two of them. The fur mullet is a fish of that swiftness, that it was impossible for the torpedo to take it by pursuit. It is probable, therefore, that by their electric stroke they stupify their prey; yet the crab and sea leech will venture to annoy them. They will live 24 hours out of the sea; and but very little longer if placed in fresh water. They inha bit sandy places; and will bury themselves supersicially in it, by flinging the fand over, by a quick flapping of all the extremities. It is in this situation that the tor pedo gives his most forcible shock, which throws down the astonished passenger who inadvertently treads upon him. In our seas it grows to a great size, and above 80 pounds weight. The tail is thick and round; the caudal fin broad and abrupt. The head and body, which are indistinct, are nearly round; attenuating to extreme tliinness on the edges; below the body, the ventral fins form on each fide a quarter of a circle. The two dorsal fins are placed on a trunk of the tail. The eyes are small, placed near each other : behind each is a round spiracle, with six small cutaneous rags on their in ner circumference. Mouth small; teeth minute, spicu lar. Five openings to the gills, as in others of this 
genus. 
The skin everywhere smooth; cinereous brown above, white beneath. see further the article elec tricitv, n 258 — 261. 
7. 
The clavata, or thornback, is easily distinguished from the others by the rows of strong sharp spines dis posed along the back and tail. In a large one seen by Mr Pennant, were three rows on the back, and five on the tail, all inclining towards its end. On the nose, and on the inner fide of the forehead, near the eyes, were a few spines, and others were scattered without any order on the upper part of the pectoral fins. The mouth was small, and filled with granulated teeth : The upper part of the body was of a pale ash colour, mark ed with short streaks of black, and the skin rough, with small tubercles like shagreen. The belly white, crossed with a strong semilunar cartilage beneath the skin : in general, the lower part was smooth, having only a few spines on each fide. The young sish have very few spines on them; and their backs are often spotted with white, and each spot is encircled with black. This specie s frequents our sandy shores; are very voracious, and feed on all sorts of flat sish; are particularly fond of herrings and sand eels; and sometimes eat crustaceous animals, such as crabs. These sometimes weigh 14 or 15 pounds, but with us seldom exceed that freight. They begin to generate in June, and bring forth their young in ju ly and August, which (as well as those of the skate) before they are old enough to breed, are called 
maids. 
The thornback begins to be in season in November, and con tinues so later than the skate, but the young of both are good at all times of the year. 
8. The pastinaca, or sting ray, does not grow to the bulk of the others : The body is quite smooth, of shape 
almost round, and 
is of a much greater thickness and 
