tertst to submit to him : or to impress the whole with a belief that, weak and pitiful as he himsels may appear, when viewed singly in opposition to them all, yet by the assismnce of some awful invisible beings, his friends and protectors, he is so powerful, that any attempts to re sist his authority must prove presumptuous folly. Here, then, the aid of religion becomes requisite. Religious sentiments are the most happily calculated to serve this purpose. scarce ever was there a society formed, a mode of government establiihed, or a code of laws framed and enacted, without having the religious sentiments of mankind, their notions of the existence of su perior invshble bemgs, and their hopes and fears from those beings, as its fundamental principle. Now, we believe, it is almost universally agreed, that even the rndest form of society is more favourable to the happiness of mankind, and the dignity of the human charac ter, than a solitary and savage state.. And if this, with what we have asserted concerning religion as the basis of civil government, be both granted, it will follow, that even the most imperfect religious notions, the most foolish and absurd rites, and the wildest ideas that have been entertained concerning the moral government of the universe by superior beings, and a future state of retribution, have been more advantageous than atheism to the happiness and virtue of human life, we have already granted, nor can it be denied, indeed, that many of the religious opinions which prevailed among the ancient heathens, did contribute, in some degree, to the depravation f their morals : and' all that we argue sor is, that on a comparative view of the evil and the good which resulted from them, the latter must appear more than adequate to counterbalance the effects of the former. 
But if such be the natural tendency of those principles by which the human heart is made susceptible of religious sentiments, that even enthusiasm and absurd superstition are productive of beneficial teffects more than sufficient to counterbalance whatever is malignant in their influence on society surely a pure rational religion, the doctrines of which are founded in undeniable truth, and all the observances which it enjoins, calculated to promote by their direct and immediate effects some usesul purposes, must be in a very high degree conducive to the dignity and the happiness of human »atme. Indeed one collateral proof ol the truth of any religion, which must have very considerable weight with all who are not of opinion that the system of the universe has been produced and hitherto maintained in order and existence by blind chance, will be its having a stronger and more direct tendency than others to promote the interests of moral virtue and the happiness of mankind in the present life. Even the testimony of thousands, even miracles, prophecies, and the sanction of remote antiquity, will scarce have sufficient weight to persuade us, that a religion is of divine origin, is its general tendency appear to be rather unfavourable than advantageous to moral virtue. 
III We shall therefore, in the next place, endeavour to determine, srom a comparative view of the effects produced on the character and circumstances of society by the most eminent of these various systems of religion which have been in different ages or in diffe rent countries established in the world, how sar any one of them has in this respect the advantage over the 
yest 
} and, 
if the utility of a system of religion were to 
be received as a test of its truth, what particular system might, with the best reason, be received as true, while the rest were rejected. 
i ft,. The principle upon which we here 
set out is, 
that all, or almost all, systems of religion with which 
we 
are acquainted, whether true or falle, contribute more or lesa to the welfare 
of 
society But as, one field is more fruitful, and one garden less overgrown with weeds than another; so, in the same manner, one system of religious opinions and ceremomes may be more hap pily calculated than others to promote the tiuest inte rests of mankind. In opposition to thnse philosophers who are so vehement in their declamations against the inequality of ranks, we have ever been of opinion, that refinement and civilization contribute to the hap piness of human life. The character of the solitary savage is, we are told, more dignified and respectable than that of the philosopher and the hero, in pro •portion as he is more independent. He is indeed more independent; but his independence is that of a stone, which receives no nourishmertt from the earth or air, and communicates none to animals or vegetables around it. In point of happiness, and in point of respectability, we cannot hesitate a moment, let philosophers say what they will, to prefer a virtue ous, enlightened, and polished Briton to any of the rudest savages, the least acquainted with the restraints and the sympathies of social life, that wander through the wild forests of the western world. But if we prefer civilization to barbarism, we must adreut, that in this view Christianity has the advantage over every other religious system which lias in any age or country prevailed among men; for nowhere has civilization and usesul science been carried, to such a height as among Christians. 
It is not, indeed, in any considerable degree that the absurd superstitions of those rude tribes, who can scarce be laid to be formed into any regular society, can contribute to their happiness. Among them the faculty of reason is but in a very low state; and the moral principle usually follows the improvement or the depression of the reasoning faculty. Their appetites and merely animal passions are almost their only principles of action : their 
first 
religious notions, if we suppose them, not to be derived from revelation or tradition, are produced by the operation of gratitude, or grief, or hope,, or fear, upon their imaginations. And to these, however wild aud fanciful, it is not improbable that they may owe some of their earliest moral notions. The idea of superior powers naturally leads to the thought that those powers have some influence on human life, from this they will most probably proceed to fancy one 
set 
of actions agreeable, another offensive, to those beings to whom they believe themselves subject. And this,, perhaps, is the sirst distinction that savages can be supposed to form between actions, as right or wrong, to be performed or to be avoided. But if this be the ease, we must acknowledge that the religious notions of the savage, however absurd, contribute to elevate his character, and to improve his happiness, when, they call forth the moral principle implanted in his breast. 
But is the social state be preferable to a state of wild, and solitary independence, even the rude superstitions of unenlightened tribes of savages are in another respect beneficial to those among whom they prevail. They 
