cs Betignies, 
now advanced with fnch strength upon ’ Charleroi in the east that its immediate sali was fear ed. As this would have enabled the two French ar mies to encircle the whole of Flanders, the prince of Cobourg advanced to its relief. Charleroi surrendered at discretion on the 25th. This circumstance was not known by the prince of Cobourg when he advanced on the 26th to. attack in their entrenchments the army that covered the siege near Fleürus : but the covering army being by this time reinforced by the accession of the besieging army, the aliies were repulsed. Jourdan then drew llis men out of their entrenchments; and, in his turn, attacked the Austrians. Fie was three times re pulsed, but was at last succesasul : the hffs of the vanquished army is said to have been prodigious; but no regular accounts of it have been published. The French unquestionably exaggerated their own success, when they said that it amounted to 15, 000 men. 
The allies now retreated in ali quarters. Nieuport, Ostend, and Bruges, were taken; and Tournay, Mons, Oudenarde, and Brussels, opened their gates. At this .last place the French armies of East and west flan ders united. Landrecies, Valenciennes, Condé, and Quesnoy, were fruitleisly left with garrisons in them. The allied troops, evacuating Namur, formed a line from Antwerp to Liege to protect the country behind. The French advanced in full force, and attacked ge neral Clairfait, cut to pieces half the troops that now remained under him, and broke the line. The ah lies retreated before them. The dtike of York was joined' by some troops under the earl of Moira that with much, difficulty had made their way to him from Ostend; and with these and the Dutch troops he retired to the neighbourhood of bergen op zoom and Breda for the protection of Holland. The prince of Cobourg eva cuated Liege, crossed the Mæfe, and placed a garri son in Maastricht. He soon, however, sent back a part of his troops to the neighbourhood of Tongres; for here, to the astonishment of all Europe, the French armies made a voluntary pause in their career of vic tory, and ceased to pursue their retiring foes. sluys in Dutch Flanders was the only foreign post that they continued to attack, and it surrendered 
after a 
siege of 21 days. 
On the Rhine the war was equally successful on the part bf the French. On the lzth, 13th, and 14th of July, repeated engagements were sought; in which the French enjoyed their usual success. They had nume rous armies in every quarter.. Their mode of fighting was to make full preparation for aecomplishing their object, and to fight in great bodiea day after day till it was obtained. The Palatinate was thus overrun, and Treves taken, by general Michaud. Flanders and the Palatinate have always been accounted the. granaries of Germany; and both of them, at the commencement of the harvest, now fell into the hands of the French. 
During the course of this summer Corsica was sub dued by Great Britain and the whole of the French west-india Issands, excepting a part of Gaadaulope, yielded to 
the 
British troops under the command of sir Charles Grey and sir John Jarvis. On 
the 
first of June the British fleet, under the command of earl Howe, gained a most splendid victory over the French fleet to the westward of Ushant. The French committee of 
sasety were known to have puchased in America immense 
quantities of grain and other stores. These were embarked on board 160 sail of merchantmen, convoyed by six sail of the line.. Lord Howe sailed to intercept this valuable convoy. The French fleet sailed at the same time to protect it... On the morning of the 28th of May the fleets came in sight of each other. The British admiral had previoussy dispatched ssx ships of the line under admiral Montague to intercept the French convoy, while he should engage and detain the grand fleet, 'she French dispatched eight, sail to defeat this attempt.. In the course of the 29th Lord Howe got to windward of the French fleet. His force was 25, and theirs was 2-6, sail of the line. The following day he bore dôwn upon them, and broke their line. The engagement was one of the severest' ever fought., The French admiral, in less than an hour aster the close action commenced in the centre, crowded off with 12 of his ships.. The British fleet was so much disabled, or separated, that several of the French dis rnantled ships got away under sails raised on the stump, of their sore masts. seven sail of the line, however, re mained in possession of the British, and two were un questionably sunk.. In the mean time, admiral Montague sell in with the French convoy, but it was now guarded by 14 sail of the line. Äs he could not encounter such a force, he returned home, and it was 
safely 
conveyed into port; Thus, by one of those contradictions which so often occur in human affairs, the British fleet was victorious, and the French were lest in some measure mailers of the sea. As this engagement however testisied that tlre British seamen had not lost, their ancient superiority on their own element, the nation regarded the present victory as a pledge of its independence, and very general rejoicings took place in consequence of it. 
In the mean time, the revolutionary system of go vernment in the hands of committees of the convention at Paris, and. of committees of the popular societies throughout the country, was arrived at its highest perfection, and proceeded without opposition in its severe and sanguinary measures 
On .the 10th of May Madame Elizabeth, sister of thc late king, was sacrisiced by it in consequence of a decree of the revolutionary tribunal. Multitudes of others of every rank and sex were daily sacrificed in a simssar manner; the rich in particular were the great, objects of persecution, because the confiscation of their property added to the strength of the ruling powers. But neither were the poor safe from the bloody vigilance of this new and singular government. By the different executions Robespierre had contrived to destroy every avowed rival. All the constituted authorities consisted wholly of persons nominated with his approbation; and as the committees which conducted the business of the state were at his disposal, his will was irresistible throughout the republic. He met with no opposition in th’e conventien; sor that body was no longer the turbulent popular assembly which it had once appeared; it was little more than a name employed to give some sort of respectability to such schemes as were proposed to it. 
Amidst this accumulation, however, of seemingly ir resistible authority, Robespierre was at the brink of ruin. The whole of the old Girondist party was indeed subdued and silent; but many members of the convention 
still remained attached to it. The 
party of the 
