with 
shouts from the immense concourse of spectators of " Vive le Roi et vive l’affemble nationale, ” 
Long live the king and the national assembly. 
M. Bailly was chosen president for four days only, Messrs Camus and Pison de Galand secretaries, and the assembly proceeded to business. 
Its first acts were decisively expressive of its own so vereignty. All taxes imposed without the consent of the representatives of the people were declared to be null and void; but a temporary sanction was given to the present taxes, although illegal, till the dissolution of the assembly and no longer. It was added, that " as soon as, in concert with his majesty, the assembly should be able to fix the principles of national regeneration, it would take into consideration the 
national debt, 
placing from the present moment the creditors of the state under the saseguard and honour of the French 
nation.” 
The popular cause now gained ground so sast, that on the 19th of June a majority of the clergy voted for the verification of their powers in common with the national assembly, and they resolved to unite with them on the following day. 
Affairs were now come to a crisis, and the noblee perceived that they must instantly make a decisive stand, or yield up their cause as finally lost. such was their alarm, that M. d’espremenil proposed, at one of the sittings of their order, to address the king, entreating him to dissolve the states generah hi therto that prince had gone along with M. Neckar in favouring the popular cause in opposition to the aristocracy. But every art was now used to alarm his mind upon the subject of the late assumptions of power on the part of the commons, and these arts were at length successful. Repeated counsels were held; M. Neckar was absent attending a dying sister, and the king was prevailed upon to act agreeably to the advice of the leaders of the nobles. But the sirst measure which they adopted was fo ill conducted as to afford little prospect of final success to their cause. On the 20th of June,, when the president and members were about to enter as usual into their own hall, they found it unexpectedly surrounded by a detachment of the guards, who refused them admission, while the heralds at the same time pro claimed a royal session. Alarmed by this unforeseen event, the meaning of which they knew not, but ap prehending that an immediate dissolution of the assembly was designed, they instantly retired to a neighbouring tennis court, where, in the vehemence of their enthusiasm, they took a solemn oath “never to separate till the constitution of their country should be completed.” 
On the 22d a new proclamation intimated that the royal session, was deferred till the following day. It was now found that the assembly had been excluded srom their hall merely because the workmen were oc cupied in preparing it for the intended solemnity. This information was ill calculated to excite favourable expectations of the measures about to be adopted at a royal session, ushered in by such circumstances of mark ed disrespect for the representatives of the people. The assembly, after wandering about in search of a place of meeting, at length entered the church of st Louis, and were immediately joined by the majority of the clergy, with their president, the archbishop of Vienne, at their head. Two nobles of Dauphiné, the marquis de 
blaçon.and. the count 
d’agoult, 
presented. their ςοκγ· 
missions at the same time. Encouraged by these events, and by the applauses of sqrrounding multitudes, the assembly now expected with firmness the measures about to be adopted. 
The royal'seffion was held in the most splendid form, D but altogether in the style of the ancient despotism.th soldiers surrounded the hall. The two superior orders were seated, while the representatives of the people, lest standing a full hour in the rain, were in no humour, when at last admitted, to receive with much compla cency the commands of their sovereign. The king read a discourse, in which he declared null and void the resolutions of the 17th, but at the same time presented the plan of a constitution for France. It contained many good and patriotic principles, but preserved the distinction of orders, and the exercise of 
letters de cachet; 
it said nothing about any active share in the le gislative power to be possessed by the states-general, and was silent both about the responsibility of ministers and the liberty of the press. The king concluded by commanding the deputies immediately to retire, and to assemble again on the following day. He then withdrew, and was followed by all the nobles and a part of the clergy. The commons remained in gloomy silence on their seats. It was interrupted by the grandmaster of the ceremonies, who reminded the president of the intentions of the king. Instantly the vehement count de Mirabeau, starting from his seat, exclaimed with indignation, " she commons of France have determined to debate, we have heard the intentions that have been suggested to the king; and you, who cannot be his agent with the states-general, you who have here neither seat nor voice, nor a right to speak, are not the person to remind us of his speech. Go tell your master, that we are here by the power, of the people, and that nothing shall expel us but the bayonet.” '1 he applause of the assembly seconded the enthusiasm of the orator, and the master of the ceremonies withdrew in silence. 
M. Camus then rose; and in a violent speech indignantly stigmatifed the royal session by the obnoxious appeliation of a 
bed osjustice; 
he concluded by moving that the assembly should declare their unqualified adhe rence to their former decrees. This motion was followed by another, pronouncing the persons of the de puties inviolable. Both were suppolted by Messrs Petion, Barnave, Glaizen, the Abbés Gregoire, sieyes, and many others, and were unanimously decreed. The assembly therefore continued their sittings in the usual form. On the following day the majority of the clergy attended as members;; on the 25th the duke of Orleans, along with 49 of the deputies belonging to the order of nobles, joined them also. The remaining nobles, as well as the small minority of the clergy, now found themselves awkwardly situated. whether on this account, or because their leaders had by.this time formed a plan for carrying their point not by peaceable means but by the aid of a military force, the king, on the 27th, invited by a pressing letter both orders to join the commons. This request was immediately complied with, although many of the nobility disapproved of the raeasure. 
The situation of France was now become truly alarming, when the king retired from the assembly after 
the royal session, he was 
followed 
by more than 6000 
