The testides of various animais are very variously com posed, but all in this general manner of vessels variously rolled and folded together: and even the human testicles are of the same fort; being composed solely of rolls of vessels, without any intermediate substance, be it called by whatever name, but only consisting of vessels and their liquors. 
rabirius C a Roman knight, who lent an im mense sum of money to Ptolemy Auletes king of Egypt. The monarch afterwards not only refused to repay him, but even confined him, and endangered his life. rabi rius escaped from Egypt with difficulty; but at his return to Rome he was accused by the senate of having lent money to an African prince for unlawful purposes. He was ably defended by Cicero, and acquitted with difficulty. — There was a Latin poet of the same name in the age of Augustus. He wrote a poem on the victory which the emperor had gained over Antony at Actium. seneca has compared him to Virgil for ele gance and majesty; but Quintilian is not fo favourable to his poetry. — And there was an architect in the reign of Domitian, called 
Rabirius. 
He built a celebrated palace for the emperor, of which the ruins are still seen at Rome. 
RACCOON. see Ursus. 
RACE, in general, signifies running with others in order to obtain a prize, either on foot, or by riding on horseback, in chariots, c. 
The race was one of the exercises among the an cient Grecian games, which was performed in a course containing 125 paces; and those who centended in these foot races were frequently clothed in armour. Chariot and horse races also made a part of these ancient games. 
Races were known in England in very early times. fitz stephen, who wrote in the days of Henry IT. mentions the great delight that the citizens of London took in the diversion But by his words, it appears not to have been designed for the purposes of gaming, but merely to have sprung from a generous emulation of showing a superior skill in horsemanship. 
Races appear to have been in vogue in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and to have been carried to such excels as to injure the fortunes of the nobility. The famous George earl of Cumberland is recorded to have wasted more of his estate than any of his ancestors; and chiefly by his extreme love to horse races, tiltings, and other expensive diversions. It is probable that the parsimonious queen did not approve of it; for races are not among the diversions exhibited at Kennelworth by her favourite Leicester. In the following reign, were places allotted for the sport: Croydon in the south, and Garterly in Yorkshire, were celebrated courses. cam den also says, that in 1607 there were races near York, and the prize was a little golden bell. see Racing. 
Race, in genealogy, a lineage or extraction conti nued from father to son. see Descent. 
RACINE (John), of the. French academy, trea surer of France in the generality of Moulins, and southeast cretary to his majesty, was born at Ferre milon in 1639. He had a fine genius for the 
Beiles Letters, 
and became one of the sirst poets of the age. He produced his 
Thebaide 
when but very young; and afterwards other pieces, which met with great success, though they appeared when Corneille was in his highest repu tation. In his career, however, he did not fail 
to meet 
with all that opposition which envy and cabal are ever ready to set up against a superior genius. It was partly owing to a chagrin from this circnmstance that he took a resolution to quit the theatre for ever; although his genius was still in full vigour, being not more than 38 years of age. But he had also imbibed in his in fancy a deep sense of religion; and this, though it had been smothered for a while by his connexions with the theatre, and particularly with the famous actress champ melle, whom he greatly loved, and by whom he had 
a 
son, now at length broke out, and bore down all before it. In the sirst place, he resolved not only to write no more plays, but to do a rigorous penance for those he had written; and he actually formed a design of be coming a Carthusian friar. His religious director, however, a good deal wiser than he, advised him to think more moderately, and to take measures more suitalqie to his character. He put him upon marrying, and fettling in the world : with which proposal this humble and tractable penitent complied; and immediately took to wife the daughter of a treasurer of France for Amiens, by whom he had seven children. 
He had been admitted a member of the French academy in 1673, in the room of La Mothe Ie Vayer deceased; but spoiled the speech he had made upon that occasion by pronouncing it with too much timidity. In 1677, he was nominated with Boileau, with whom he was ever in strict friendship, to write the history of Louis XIV; and the public expected great things from two writers of their distinction, but were disap pointed. Boileau and Racine, after having for some time laboured at this work, perceived that it was entirely opposite to their genius. 
He spent the latter years of his life in composing 
a 
history of the house of Port royal, the place of his education; which, however, though finely drawn up, as many have asserted, has not been published. Too great sensibility, say his friends, but more properly an impotence of spirit, shortened the days of this poet. — Though he had conversed much with the court, he had not learned the wisdom, which is usually learned there, cf disguising his real sentiments. Having drawn up 
a 
well reasoned and well written memorial upon the miseries of the people, and the means of relieving them, lie one day lent it to Madam de Maintenon to read; when the king coming in, and demanding what and whose it was, commended the zeal of Racine, but disapproved of his meddling with things that did not. concern him : and said with an angry tone, " Because he knows how to make .good verses, does he think he knows everything? And would he be a minister of state, because he is a great poet ?” These words hurt Racine greatly : he conceived dreadful ideas of the king’s displeasure;; his chagrin and fears brought 011 a fever, of which he died the 22d of April 1699. 
The king, who was sensible of his great merit, and always loved him, sent often to him in his illness; and finding after his death that he had more glory than riches, fettled a handsome pension upon his family. — There is nothing in the French language written with. more wit and elegance than his pieces in prose. be sides his plays, several of his letters have been published; he also wrote spiritual songs, epigrams, c. racine’s 
