stood to have been intended for the purpose of concluding a league for the invasion of France, the new modelling of its government, and the partition of some of its fair est provinces. The following paper has been repeated ly published as the copy of a treaty concluded and signed at Pavia, and is generally understood to have been identical with, and therefore known by, the name of the 
Treaty of Pilnitz. 
we are far from vouching for its authenticity. It may have been fabricated by the French assembly, to unite all parties in the nation against the foreign powers which threatened to invade them. But in stating the events of this revolution, it is perhaps still more necessary, for the purpose of rendering the actions of men comprehensible, to give an account of what was at the time 
believed 
to have occurred, than it now is to ascertain what was actually true. 
Partition Treaty between the Courts in Concert, concluded and signed at Pavia, in the Month of July 
1791. 
His majesty the emperor will take all that louisxiv. conquered in the Austrian Netherlands, will give them to his serene highness the elector Palatine; so that these new possessions, added to the Palatinate, may here after have the name of 
Aufirafia. 
His majesty will preserve for ever the property and possession of Bavaria, to make in future an indivisible mass with the domains and hereditary possessions of the house of Aussria. 
Her serenc highness the archduchess Maria Christina shall be, conjointly with his serene highness her northeast phew the archduke Charles, put into hereditary possession of the duchy of Lorraine. 
Alsace shall be restored to the empire; and the bishop of strashourg, as well as the chapter, shall recover their ancient privileges, and the ecclesiastical sovereigns of Germany shall do the same. 
If the swiss Cantons consent to accede to the coalition, it may be proposed to them to annex to the hel vetic league the bishopric of Porentrui, the defiles of Franche Comté, and even those of Tyrol, with the neighbouring bailiwicks, as well as the territory of ver soy, which intersccts the Pays de Vaud. 
should his majesty the king of sardinia fubscribe to the coalition, La Bresse, Le Bugey, and the Pays de Gex, usurped by France from savoy, shall be restored to him. 
In case his sardinian majesty can make a grand di version, he shall be sussered to take Dauphiné, to belong to him for ever as the nearest descendant of the ancient dauphins. 
His majesty the king of spain shall have Roussillon and Bearn, with the issand of Corssca; and he shall have the French part of the issand of st Domingo. 
Her majesty the empress of all the Ruffias shall take upon herself the invasson of Poland, and at the same time retain Kaminiech, with that part of Padolia which borders on Moldavia. 
His majesty the emperor shall oblige the Port to give up Chocsim, as well as the small forts of servia, and tliofe on the river Lurna. 
His majesty the king of Prussia, by means of the abovementioned invasion of the empress of all the Rusc fias into Poland, shall make an acquisition of Thorn and Dantzic, and there unite the Palatinate on the east 
to 
the confines of silesia. 
His majesty the king of Prussia shall besides acquire Lusace; and hie screne highness the elector of saxony shall in exchange receive the rest of Poland, and oc cupy the throne as hereditary sovereign. 
. His majesty the present king of’poland shall abdicate the throne on receiving 
a 
suitable annuity. 
His royal highness the elector of saxony shall give his daughter in marriage to his serene highness the youngest son of his royal highness the grand duke of all the Ruffias, who will be the father of the race of the hereditary kings of Poland and Lithuania. (signed) Leopold. Prince Nassau. countfloriba blan ca. Bischoffswerder. 
In the mean time, the national assembly was hassen ing fast to the completion of the new constitution. It was sinished on the 3d of september, and presented to the king. It begins with the following declaration of the rights of a man and a citizen, and thereafter foliow the different branches; the chief of which are here translated. 
I. All men are born, and remain, free and equal in rights : social distinctions cannot be founded but on common utility. 
II The end of all political associations is the pre servation of the natural and imprescriptihle rights of man : these rights are liberty, property, security, and resistance against oppression. 
III The principle of 
sovereignty 
resides essentially in the nation : 
no body of men, 
no 
individual, 
can exercise an authority that does not emanate expressly from that source. 
IV 
Liberty 
consists in the power of doing everything except that which is hurtful to another : hence the exercise of the natural rights of every man has no other bounds than those that are necessary to ensure to the other members of society the enjoyment of the same rights : those bounds can be determined by the law only. 
V The law has a right to forbid those actions alone that are hurtful to society. whatever is not forbid den by the law, cannot be hindered; and no person can be constrained to do that which the law ordaineth not. 
VI The law is the expression of the general will : all the citizens have a right to concur personally, or by their representatives, to the formation of the law : it ought to be the same for all, whether it protect, or whether it punish. All citizens being equal in the eye of the law, are equally admissible to dignities, places, and public offices, according to their capacity, and without any other distinction but that of their virtue and their talents. 
VII No man can be accuscd, arrested, or detained, except in cafes determined by the law, and according to the forms which the law hath prescribed. Those who solicit, dispatch, execute, or cause to be executed, arbitrary orders, ought to be pnnished; but every citi zen that is summoned or seized in virtue of the law, ought to obey instantly — he becomes culpable by resistance. 
VIII The law ought to establish such punishments only as are strictly and evidently necessary; and no person can be punished but in virtue of a law esta blished and promulgated prior to the offence, and le galley applied. 
IN. Every man being presumed innocent till such 
