count highly favoured by him : but no sooner did they hear of 
his death, than they drove out the Macedonian garrisons, and once more became a free people. About this time happened a dreadful inundation at Rhodes; which, being accompanied with violent storms of rain, and hailstones of an extraordinary bigness, beat down many houses, and killed great numbers of the inhabitants. As the city was built in the form of an amphitheatre, and no care had been taken to clear the pipes and conduits which conveyed the water into the sea, the lower parts of the city were in an instant laid under water, several houses quite covered, and the inha bitants drowned before they could get to the higher places. As the deluge increased, and the violent showers continued, some of the inhabitants made to their ships, and abandoned the place, while others miserably perished in the waters. But while the city was thus threatened with utter destruction, the wall on a sudden burst asunder, and the water discharging itself by a violent current into the sea, unexpectedly delivered the inhabitants from all danger. 
The Rhodians suffered greatly by this unexpected accident, but soon retrieved their losses by a close application to trade. During the wars which took place among the successors of Alexander, the Rhodians ob served a strict neutrality; by which means they enriched themselves so much, that Rhodes became one of the most opulent states of that age; insomuch that, for the common good of Greece, they undertook the 
piratic war, 
and, at their own charge, cleared the seas of the pirates who had for many years infested the coasts of Europe and Asia. However, notwithstanding the neu trality they professed, as the most advantageous branch es of their commerce were derived from Egypt, they were more attached to Ptolemy, king of that country, than to any of the neighbouring princes, when there fore Antigonus, having engaged in a war with Ptolemy about the island of Cyprus, demanded succours of them, they earnestly entreated him not to compel them to de clare war against their ancient friend and ally. But this answer, prudent as it was, drew upon them the displeasure of Antigonus, who immediately ordered one of his admirals to sail with his fleet to Rhodes, and seize all the ships that came out of the harbour for Egypt. The Rhodians, finding their harbour blocked up by the fleet of Antigonus, equipped a good number of galleys, fell upon the enemy, and obliged him, with the loss of many ships, to quit his station. Hereupon Antigonus, charging them as aggressors, and beginners an unjust war, threatened to besiege their city with the strength of his whole army. The Rhodians endeavoured by frequent embassies to appease his wrath; but all their remonstrances served rather to provoke than allay his resentment : and the only terms upon which he would hearken to any accommodation were, that the Rhodians should declare war against Ptolemy, that they should admit his fleet into their harbour, and that an hundred of the chief citizens should be delivered up to him as hostages for the performance of these articles. The Rhodians sent ambassadors to all their allies, and to Ptolemy in particular, imploring their assistance, and representing to the latter, that their attachment to his interest had drawn upon them the danger to which they were exposed. The prepartions on both sides were immense. As Antigonus was near fourscore years of 
age at that time, he committed the whole management of the war to his son Demetrius, who appeared before the city of Rhodes with 200 ships of war, 170 trans ports having on board 40, 000 men, and 1000 other vessels laden with provisions and all sorts of warlike engines. As Rhodes had enjoyed for many years a pro found tranquillity, and been free from all devastations, the expectation of booty, in the plunder of so wealthy a city, allured multitudes of pirates and mercenaries to join Demetrius in this expedition; insomuch that the whole sea between the continent and the island was covered with ships; which struck the Rhodians, who had a prospect of this mighty armada from the walls, with great terror and consternation. 
Demetrius, having landed his troops without the reach of the enemy’s machines, detached several small bodies to lay waste the country round the city, and cut down the trees and groves, employing the timber, and materials of the houses without the walls, to fortify his camp with strong ramparts and a treble palisade; which work, as many hands were employed, was finished in a few days. The Rhodians, on their part, prepared for a vigorous defence. Many great commanders, who had signalised themselves on other occasions, threw themselves into the city, being desirous to try their skill in military affairs against Demetrius, who was reputed one of the most experienced captains in the conduct of sieges that antiquity had produced. The besieged began with dismissing from the city all such persons as were useless; and then taking an account of those who were capable of bearing arms, they found that the citizens amounted to 6000, and the foreigners to 1000. Liberty was promised to all the slaves who should distinguish themselves by any glorious action, and the public engaged to pay the masters their full ransom. A proclamation was likewise made, declaring, that whoever died in defence of their country should be buried at the expense of the public; that his parents and children should be maintained out of the treasury; that fortunes should be given to his daughters; and his sons, when they were grown up, should be crowned and presented with a complete suit of armour at the great solemnity of Bacchus; which decree kindled an incre dible ardour in all ranks of men. 
Demetrius, having planted all his engines, began to batter with incredible fury the walls on the side of the harbour; but was for eight days successively repulsed by the besieged, who set sire to most of his warlike en gines, and thereby obliged him to allow them some respite, which they made good use of in repairing the breaches, and building new walls where the old ones were either weak or low. when Demetrius had repaired his engines, he ordered a general assault to be made, and caused his troops to advance with loud shouts, thinking by this means to strike terror into the enemy. But the besieged were so sar from being intimidated, that they repulsed the aggressors with great slaughter, and performed the most astonishing feats of bravery. Demetrius returned to the assault next day; but was in the same manner forced to retire, after having lost a great number of men, and some officers of distinction. He had seized, at his sirst landing, an eminence at a small distance from the city; and, having fortified this advantageous post, he caused several batteries to be erected there, with engines, which incessantly discharged 
