prudent ai he 
was zealous; and, as t’ f minds of the swedes were in a fluctuating state, he wisely avoided all kind of vehemence and precipitation in spreading the new doctrine. Accordingly, the first object of his attention was the instruction of his people in the sacred doctrines of the Holy scriptures : for which purpose he invited into his dominions several learned ger mans, and spread abroad through the kingdom the swedish translation of the Bible that had been made by Olaus Petri. some time after this, 
in 
1526, he appointed a conference at Upfal, between this reformer and Peter Gallius, a zealous defender of the ancient su perstition, in which each of the champions was to bring forth his arguments, that it might be seen on which side the truth lay. In this dispute Olaus obtained 
a 
signal victory; which contributed much to confirm Gustavus in his persuasion of the truth of luther’s doc trine, and to promote its progress in sweden. The following year another event gave the sinishing stroke to its propagation and success. This was the assembly of the states at westeraas, where Gustavus recommend ed the doctrine of the reformers with such zeal, that, after warm debates fomented by the clergy in general, rt was unanimoussy resolved that the reformation introduced by Luther should have place in sweden. This resolution was principally owing to the sirmness and magnanimity of Gustavus, who declared publicly, that he would lay down the sceptre and retire from the kingdom, rather than rule a people enssaved by the orders and authority of the pope, and more contronled by the tyranny of their bishops than by the laws of their monarch. From this time the papal empire in swe den was entirely overthrown, and Gustavus declared head of the church. 
In Denmark, the reformation was introduced as early as the year 1 ς2τ, in consequence of the ardent desire discovered by Christiern II of having his subjects in structed in the doctrines of Luther. This monarch, notwithstanding his cruelty, for which his name has been rendered odious, was nevertheless desirous of de livering his dominions from the tyranny of the church of Rome. For this purpose, in the year 1 ç20, he sent for Martin Reinard, one of the disciples of Carlostadt, out of saxony, and appointed him professor of divinity at Hafnia; and after his death, which happened in 1521, he invited Carlostadt himself to fill that important place. Carlostadt accepted of this office indeed, but in a short time returned to Germany; upon which Christiern used his utmost endeavours to engage lu there to visit his dominions, but in vain. However, the progress of Christiern, in reforming the religion of his subjects, or rather of advancing his own power above that of the church, was checked, in the year 1523, by a conspiracy, by which be was deposed and banished; his uncle Frederic, duke of Holstein and sleswic, being appointed his successor. 
Frederic conducted the reformation with much greater prudence than his predecessor. He permitted the Protestant doctors to preach publicly the sentiments of Luther, but did net venture to change the established government and discipline of the church. However, he contributed greatly to the progress of the resorma tion, by his successful attempts in favour of religious liberty in an assembly of the ffates held at Odensee in 
1527. Here he procured the publication of a famous 
edict, by which every subject of Denmark was 
deesa' 
red free either to adhere to the tenets of the church of Rome, or to the doctrine of Luther. The papal tyranny was totally destroyed by his successor chri stiern III He began by suppreffing the despotic authority of the bishops, and restoring to their lawful owners a great part of the wealth and possessions which the church had acquired by various stratagems. This was followed by a plan of religious doctrine, worship, and diseipline, laid down by Bugenliagius, whom the king had sent for from wittemberg for that purpose; and in 1539 an assembly of the states at Odensee gave a solemn sanction to all these transactions. 
In France also, the reformation began to make 
some 
progress very early. Margaret queen of Navarre, sister to Francis 1. the perpetual rival of Charles V was a great friend to the new doctrine; and it appears that, as early as the year 1523, there were in several of the provinces of France great numbers of people who had conceived the greatest aversion both to the doctrine and tyranny of the church of Rome; among whom were many of the sirst rank and dignity, and even some of the episcopal order. But as their num. ber increased daily, and troubles and commotions were excited in several places on account of the religious differences, the authority of the king intervened, and many persons eminent sor their virtue and piety were put to death in the most barbarous manner. Indeed Francis, who had either no religion at all, or, at best, no fixed and consistent system of religious principles, conducted himself towards the Protestants in such 
a 
manner as best answered his private views. sometimes he resolved to invite Melancthon into France, probably with a view to please his sister the queen of Navarre, whom he loved tenderly, and who had strongly imbibed the Protestant principles. At other times he ex ercised the most infernal cruelty towards the reformed; and once made the following mad declaration, That if he thought the blood in his arm was tainted by the Lutheran heresy, he would have st cut off; and that he would not spare even his own children, if they en tertained sentiments contrary to those of the Catholic church. 
About this time the famous Calvin began to draw the attention of the public, but more especially of the queen of Navarre His zeal exposed him to danger j and the sllends of the reformatlon, whom Francls was daily committing to the flames, placed him more than once in the most perilous situation, from which he was delivered by the interposition of the queen of Navarre. He therefore retired out of France to Basil in swisser land; where he published his Christian Institutions, and became afterwards so famous. 
Those among the French who first renounced the jurisdiction of the Romish church, are commonly called 
Lutherans 
by the writers of those early times. Hence it has been supposed that they had all imbibed the peculiar sentiments of Luther. But this appears by no means to have been the case : for the vicinity of the cities of Geneva, Lausanne, c. which had adopted the doctrines of Calvin, produced a remarkable ei fect upon the French Protestant churches; insomuch that, about the middle of this century, they all entered into communion with the church of Geneva. The 
French Protestants were called 
Huguenot; * 
by 
their ad 
