navy ; 
but these were oniy meant to act as official men, ’under the Count d’artois, and the other leaders of the aristocracy. To these leaders there did not even remain a choice of difficulties; no resource was left but that of overawing by military power the national assembly and the capital, and of risking the desperate measure of a national bankruptcy, which the court had not formerly dared to encounter, and to avoid which it had convo ked the states-general. No trace remains, however, of any attempt to put this criminal, but last resource, in execution. The evening after the departure of M. Neckar was spent by the court of Versailles in feasting and joy, as if a victory had been gained. The courtiers of both sexes went round among the soldiery, striving to secure their fidelity by caresses, largesses, and every species of flattering attention. The ministry not only failed to support the Prince de Lambesq in the post which he had been sent to occupy, but they sussered the whole of the 13th to pafs in indecision, while the capital was in a state of rebellion, while an army was formally mustering within its walls, and the names of the principal nobility were put up in lists of proscrip tions. They received the news of the capture of the Bastile with confusion and dismay, which were increased, if possible, by information given by Marshal Broglio, that the troops refused to act against Paris or the national assembly. In this perplexity they adopted the miserable device of concealing from the king the state of public affairs; and that unfortunate prince was thus perhaps the only person out of millions around him who remained ignorant of the convulsions in which his country was involved. 
At length, at midnight, the Duke de Liancourt forced his way into the king’s apartment, and told him 
of 
the revolt of his capital, of his army, and of the surrender of the fortress of the Bastile. The Count d’ Artois, who was present, still attempted to retain the monarch under his fatal delusion; but the Duke de Liancourt turning round, exclaimed, " As for you, sir, yohr life can only be saved by instant flight; I have seen with horror your name in the bloody list of the proscribed.” Accordingly the Count, with the members of his short-lived administration and their adhe rents, fled to the frontiers. And thus an emigration commenced, the source of that terrible conte st which has covered Europe with bloodshed and mourning. This ministry had, no doubt, many difficulties to contend against; but an accurate attention to their conduct ex cstes a suspscion which, while it exculpates them from many intended crimes that have been laid to their charge, at the same time does little honour to their ta lents. It is this, that they had come into office without having formed any clear plan of conduct; that they were men acting without decision and at random, and consequently became the sport of those events which they wanted skill and vigour to direct or control. By their introduction into office, and their misconduct while in it, the royal authority fell prostrate before the popular party in the national assembly. The nobles and the clergy still remained, but confounded in one assembly with the more numerous order of the 
tiers etat; 
and no longer rallying round a throne that was too feeble 
to 
afford protection, they soon yielded to that fierce and levelling spirit 
of 
democracy that now 
rose 
around them. 
But the person of the monarch was still beloved. — Early next morning the king went to the assembly, but with none of the usual solemnities. He " regretted the commotions of the capital, disavowed any knowledge of an intention against the persons of the deputies, and intimated that he had commanded the removal of the troops.” A deep and expressive silence prevailed sora few moments; this was succeeded by vehement and universal shouts of applause. The king arose to depart, and instantly the whole assembly crowded around, and attended him to his palace. The queen appeared at a balcony with the dauphin in'her arms; the nuisic play ed the pathetic air of 
Où peut on dire mieux qu’au pein de sa samdle. 
The enthusiasm of loyalty communicated itself to the sunounding multitudes, and nothin"· was heard but acclamations of joy. 
On the following day, the king declared his resolution to. visit the city of Paris in person. Accordingly that prince, who never wanted personal courage, however deficient he might be in political stedsastness, set out, attended by some members of the assembly and by the militia of Versailles. He was met by the celebrated M. de lafayette, at the head of a body of the na tional guard, of which hc had now been chosen com mander in chief. M. Bailly, in whose person the an cscnt office of mayor of Paris had been revived, received the king at the gates, and delivered to him the keys. All this while no shout was heard from the crowd of innumerable spectators but that of 
Vive la nation. 
The king advanced to the Hotel de Ville, where the new cockade was presented to him, which he put onf and presented himself with it at a window. At the light of this badge of patriotism an universal shout of 
Vive le Roi 
burst forth from every quarter; and he returned to Versailles amidst general triumph and applause. 
Much confusion still prevailed in the capital; but there was more appearance of regularity than could have been expected at the conclusion of such nnportant events. I his arose from a casual concurrence of circumstances. TL o conduct with ease the elections to the states-general, Paris had been divided into 60 districts, each of which had a separate place of meeting. The people did not elect the members to the states-general; but they chose delegates, who, under the name of elec tors, voted for the members. at the commencement of the disturbances, the electors, at the request of their fellow citizens, assumed a temporary authority; of which, however, they were soon weary, and as soon as possible procured the public election of 120 persons as municipal officers for the government of the city. The citizens having got the habit of assembling in their districts, grew fond of it : they assembled frequently, made rules for their own government, and sent commissioners to communicate with other districts. The tumultuous nature of these meetings, and the vehemence of debate which prevailed in them, will best be conceived from the ludicrous contrivance of one of their presidents, who stationed a drummer at the back of his chair, and when the confusion and noise became altogether ungovernable, gave the signal sor beating the drum, wluch speedily overpowered every other noise. These meetings, however, gradually ripened into clubs, in which much dexterity and intrigue were exerted. 
The whole of the late ministry escaped excepting M. 
