« sixthly, 
Insects being their food, 
I never 
saw any toad (how any liking or dislike to any plant d" 
"
1 hardly remember any persops taking it up except my father and myself; s do not know whether it had any particular attachment to us. 
Fighthly, 
In respect to its end, I answer this last query. Had it not been for a tame raven, I make no doubt but it would have been now living; who one day feeing it at the mouth of its hole, pulled it out, and al though I rescued it, pulled out one eye, and hurt it fo, that notwithstanding its living a twelvemonth it never enjoyed itself, and had a difficulty of taking its food, missing the mark for want of its eye : before that accèdent it had all the appearance of perfect health.” 
6. The rubeta, or natter jack, frequents dry and san dy places : it is found on Putney common, and also near Reveshy abbey, Lincolnshire. It never leaps, nei there does it crawl with thc siow pace of a toad, but its motion is liker to running. several are found commonly together, and like others of the genus they appear in the evenings. The upper part of the body is of a dirty yellow, clouded with brown, and covered with porous pimples.of unequal sizes : on the back is a yellow line. The upper hde of the body is of a paler hue, marked with black spots, which are rather rough. On the forefeet are four divided toes; on the hind five, a little webbed. The length of the body is two inches and a quarter; the breadth, one and a quarter: the length of the forelegs, one inch one sixth; of the hind legs, two inches, 
we 
are indebted to sirjofeph Banks, for this account. 
7. The pipal, or surinam toad, is more ugly than even thc common one. The body ls flat and broad; the head small; the jaws, like those of a mole, are extended, and evidently formed for rooting in the ground : tile skin of the neck forms a sort of wrinkled collar: the.colour of the head is of a dark chestnut, and the eyes are small : the back, which is very broad, is of 
a 
hghtisll grey, and seems covered over with a number of small eyes, which are round, and placed at nearly equal distances. These eyes are very different from what they seem : they are the animal’s eggs, covered with their shells, and placed there for hatching. These eggs are buried deep in the skin, and in the beginning of incuba tion but just appear 5 and are very visible when the young animal is about to burst from its confinement. They are of a reddish, shining yellow colour; and the spaces between them are full of small warts, resembling pearls. 
This is their situation previous to their coming forth; but nothing so much demands our admiration as the 
manner of 
their production. The egga, when firmed 
in the ovary, are sent, by some internal canals, which 
anatomists have not 
hitherto described, to lie and come to maturity under the bony substance of the back : 
in 
this state they are impregnated by the male, whose seed sinds its way by pores very singularly contrived, and pierces not only the skin but the periosteum : the skin, however, is still apparently entire, and forms a very thick covering ever the whole brood; but as they ad vance to maturity, at different intervals, one after another, the egg seems to start forward, and burgeons from the back, becomes more yellow, and at last breaks j when the young one puts forth its head : it still, however, keeps its situatson until it has acquired a proper degree of strength, and then it leaves the shell, but still continues to keep upon the back of the parent. In this manner the pipal is seen travelling with her won derous family on her back, in all the different stages of maturity. some of the strange progeny, not yet come to sufficient perfection, appear quite torpid, and as yet without life in the egg : others seem just beginning to rise through the skin; here peeping forth from the shell, and there having entirely forsaken their prison;; are spprting at large upon the parent’s back, and others descending to the ground to try their own fortune below. The male pipal is every way larger than the fe male, and has the skin less tightly drawn round the body. The whole body is covered with pustules, resembling pearls; and the belly, which is of a bright yel low, seems as if it were sewed up from the throat to the vent, .a seam being seen to run in that direction. This animal, like the rest of the frog kind, is most probably harmless. 
8. The water frog of Cateshy has large black eyes yellow irides, and long limbs : the upper part of the head and body is of a dusky green, spotted with black 5 and from each eye to the nose is a white line; and also 
a 
yellow line along the sides to the rump. They fre quent rivulets and ditches, which they do not quit for the dry land. It is said they will spring five or six yards at a leap. 
9. The rana arborea, or green tree frog of Cateshy, is of a siender shape and hright green colour, marked on each side with a line of yellow : the eyes are black; the irides yellow; they have four toes before and five behind; at the end of each toe there ia a round mem brane, concave beneath, and not unlike the mouth of a leech. They lurk under the lower sides of leaves, even of the tallest trees, and adhere firmly, by means of the membranes at the ends of their toes, sticking to the smoothest surface t a looking-glass was held before one,. 
threw 
on 
the 
curious impertinent 
a fixed look that marked his disquietriess and fear; but he soon returned to. his work with more precipitation than before, and a moment after he appeared undetermined whether he should. continue it or not. The female likewise discovered her uneasmess at the sight of the stranger, by motions that interrupted sometimes the male in his operation. At length, whether the silence and steady posture of the spec tator had dissipated their fear, or that the 
cafe 
was urgent, the raalercsumed his work with the same vigour, and; succcsssully performed his function.” 
D) This question arose from an assertion of Linnaeus, that the toad delighted in filthy herbs. 
Delectatur co tula, actna, Jiachyde fcetide. 
The unhappy deformity of the animal seems to be the only ground of this as vvest as another mifrepresentation, of its conveying apoiscn with its pimples, its touch, and even its. breath 
Virrut, 
t 
lactescentes venenat# insufig tactut anhelitu* 
