his dominion. But with bis successorit 
was 
otherwise; for he, convinced that luther’s doctrine must soou be totally destroyed and suppressed unless it received a spee dy and effectual support, ordered Luther and melanc tbon to draw up a body of laws relating to the form of ecclesiaftical government, the method of public worship, c. which was to be proclaimed by heralds throughout his dominions. This example was followed by all the princes and states of Germany who renounced the papal supremacy; and a like fotm of worship, disespline, and government, was thus introduced into all the churches 'which dissented srom that of Rome. This open renun ciatson of the Romish jurisdiction soon changed the face of affairs; and the patrons of Popery soon intimated, in a manner not at all ambiguous, that they intended to make war on the Lutheran party; which would certainly have been put in execution, had not the trou bles that took place in Europe disconcerted their mea sures. On the other hand, the Lutherans, apprized of these hostile intentions, began also to deliberate on a proper plan of defence against that superstitious violence with which they were in danger of being assailed. The diet of the empire assembled at spire, in the year 1526; where the emperor’s ambassadors were desired to use their utmost endeavours to suppress all disputes about religion, and to insist upon the rigorous execution of the sentence which had been pronounced against Luther and his followers at worms. The greatest part of the German princes opposed this motion with the ut most resolution, declaring that they could not cxecute that sentence, nor come to any determination with regard to the doctrines by which it had been occasioned, Before the whole matter was submitted to the decisioil of a council lawfully assembled; alleging farther, that the decision of controversies of this nature belonged properly to it, and to it alone. This opinion, after long and very warm debates, was adopted by a great majority, and at length consented to by the whole assembly: for it was unanimously agreed to present a solemn ad tlress to the emperor, entreating him to assemble, without delay, a free and general council; while in the mean time it was also agreed, that the princes of the empire should, in their respective dominions, be at liberty to manage ecclesiassical affairs in the manner they should think most proper; yet so as to be able to give to God and the emperor a proper account of their administra tion when it should be required of them. 
These resolutions proved extremely favourable to the cause of reformation; neither had the emperor any leisure for some time to give disturbance to the reformed. The war, which at this time ensued between him and the pope, gave the greatest advantage to the friends of the reformed, and considerably augmented their number. several princes, whom the fear of persecution and punishment had hitherto prevented from lending their assistance, publicly renounced the Romish superststion, and introduced among their subjects the same forms of religious worship, and the same system of doctrine, that had been received in saxony. Others, though placed in such circumstances as discouragcd them from acting in an open manner against the interests of the Roman pontiff, were, however, far from discovering the smallest opposition to those who withdrew the people from his despotic yoke; nor did they molest the private assem blies of those who had separated themselves from the 
church of Rome. And in general, all the Germans who, before these lesolutions of the diet of spire, had rejected the papal difcspline and doctrine, were now, in consequence of the liberty they enjoyed, wholly employed in bringing their schemes and plans to a certain degree of consistence, and in adding vigour and sirmness to the cause in which they were engaged. But this tranquillity and liberty was of no long duration. In 1529, a new diet was assembled at the same place by the emperor, after lie had quieted the troubles in various parts of his dominions, and concluded a peace with the pope. The power which had been granted to princes of managing ecclesiastical affairs till the meeting of a general council, was now revoked by a majority of votes j and every change declared unlawful that should be introduced into the doctrine, discipline, or worship of the established religion, before the determination of the approaching council was known. This decree was considered as iniquitous and intolerable by the elector of saxony, the landgrave of Hesse, and other members of the diet, who were persuaded of the necessity of a reformation. The promise of speedily assembling a 
general 
council, they looked upon to be an artifice of the church of Rome; well knowing, that a free and lawful council would be the Iast thing to which the pope would consent. when, therefore, they found that all their arguments and remonstrances made no impression upon Ferdinand the emperor’s brother, who presided in the diet, Charles himself being then at Barcelona, they en tered a solcmn protest against this decree on the 19th of April, and appealed to the emperor and a future council. Hence arose the denomination of 
Protoflcmts, 
which from this period has been given to those who separate from the communion of the church of Rome. The princes of the empire who entered this protest were, John elector of saxony; George elector of brandenburg;; and Francis dukes of Lunenburgh; the landgrave of Hesse; and the prince of Anhalt. These were seconded by 13 imperial towns, viz. straf burg, Ulm, Nuremberg, Constance, Rottingen, wind seim, Memmingen, Nortlingen, Lindaw, Kempton, Htilbron, wissemburg, and st Gall. 
The dissenting princes, who were the protectors and heads of the reformed churches, had no sooner entered their protest, than they sent proper persons to the em peror, who was then upon hi passage from spain to Italy, to acquaint him with their proceedings ir? this matter. The ministers employed in this commission ex ecuted it with the greatest intrepidity and presence of mind; but the emperor, exasperated at the audacity of those who presumed to differ from him, caused the ambassadors to be arrested. The news of this violent ssep made the Protestant princes conclude, that their person al safety, and the success of their cause, depended en tirely upon their own courage and union. They de termined, therefore, to enter into a solemn confederacy: sor which purpose they held several meetings at Rot, Nuremberg, smalcald, and other places : but so disse rent were their opinions and views, that they could de termine upon nothing. 
One great obstacle to the intended confederacy was the dispute which had arisen between Luther and Zuinglius concerning the real presence of Christ in the lord’s supper. To terminate this dispute, if possible, Philip, landgrave 
of 
Hesse, invited, in the year 1529, te 
