Thia is 
an 
abundantly simple formula; but if we introduce it in our calculations of the resistances of curvi lineal prows, it renders them so complicated as to be al most useless; and what is worse, when the calculation is completed for a curvilineal prow, the resistance which results is found to differ widely from experiment. This shows that the motion of the fluid is so modified by the action of the most prominent part of the prow, that its impulse on what succeeds is greatly affected, fo that we are not allowed to consider the prow as composed of a number of parts, each of which is affected as if it were detached from all the rest. 
As the very nature of naval architecture seems to require curvilineal forms, in order to give the necessary strength, it seemed of importance to examine more par ticulary the deviations of the resistances of such prows. from the resistances assigned by the theory. The academicians therefore made vessels with prows of a cylin brical shape; one of these was a half cylinder, and the other was one third of a cylinder, both having the same breadth, viz. two feet, the same depth, also two feet, and the same length, four feet. The resiftance of the half cylinder was to the resistance of the perpendicular prow in the proportion of 13 to 25, instead of being as 13 to 19, 5. The Chevalier Borda found nearly the same ratio of the resistances of the half cylin der, and its diametrical plane when moved in air. He also compared the resistances of two prisms or wedges, of the same breadth and height. The sirst had its sides plane, inclined to the base in angles of 60° 1 the second had its sides portions of cylinders, of which the planes were the chords, that is, their sections were arches of circles of 60’. Their resistances were as 133 to 100, instead of being as 133 to 220, as required by the theory; and as the resistance of the sirst was greater in proportion to that of the base than the theory allows, the resistance of the last was less. 
Mr Robins found the resistance of a sphere moving in air to be to the resistance of its great circle as 1 to 2, 27; whereas theory requires them to be as 1 to 2. He found, at the same time, that the absolute resistance was greater than the weight of a cylinder of air of the same diameter, and having the height necessary for acquiring the velocity. It was greater in the proportion 49 to 40 nearly. 
Borda found the resistance of the sphere moving in water to be to that of its great circle as 1000 to 2508, and it was one ninth greater than the weight of the column of water whose height was that necessary for producing the velocity. He aiso found the resist ance of air to the sphere was to its resistance to its great circle as 1 to 2, 45. 
It appears, on the whole, that the theory gives the resistance of oblique plane surfaces too small, and that of curved sursaces too great; and that it is quite unfit for ascertaining the modifications of resistance arising from the sigure of the body. The most prominent part of the prow changes the action of the fluid on the succeeding parts, rendering it totally different from what it would be were that part detached from the rest, and exposed to the stream with the same obliquity. It is of no consequence, therefore, to deduce any formula from the valuable experiments of the French academy. The experiments themselves are of great importance, 
jjecause 
they 
give 
us the impulscs on plane surfaces with 
every obliquity. They therefore put it 
in our power 
to select the most proper obliquity in a thousand sm portant cases. By appealing to them, we can tell what is the proper angle of the sail for producing the great est impnlse in the direction of the ship’s course;; the best inclination of the sail of a wind mill, or the best in clination of the float of a water wheel, cc. These deductions will be made in their proper places in the course of this work. WC see also, that the deviation from the simple theory is not very considerable till the obliquity is great; and that, in the inclinations which other circumstances would induce us to give to the floats of water wheels, the sails of wind mills, and the like, the results of the theory are sufficiently agreeable to experiment, for rendering this theory of very great use in the construction of machines. Its great défect is in the impulsions on curved surfaces, which puts 
a 
stop to our improvement of the science of naval archi tecture, and the working of ships. 
But it is not enough to detect the faults of this theory: : should try to amend it, or to substitute ano there. It is a pity that so much ingenuity should have been thrown away in the application of a theory fo defective. Mathematicians were seduced, as has been al ready observed, by the opportunity which it gave for exercising their calculus, which was a new thing at the time of publishing this theory. Newton saw clearly the defects of it, and makes no use of any part of it in his subsequent discuffions, and plainly has used. it merely as an introduction, in order to give some gene ral notions in a subject quite new, and to give a demonstration of one leading truth, viz. the proportionality of the impulsions to the squares of the velocities, while we profess the highest respect for the talents and labours of the great mathematicians who have followed new tonne in this most difficult research, we cannot help being sorry that some of the greatest of them continued to attach themselves to a theory which he neglected, rnere ly because it afforded an opportunity of displaying their profound knowledge of the new calculus, of which they were willing to aseribe the discovery to Leibnitz. It has been in a great measure owing to this that we have been so late in discovering our ignoiance of the subject. Newton had himself pointed out all the defects of this theory; and he set himself to work to discover another which should be more conformable to the nature of things, retaining only such deductions from the other as his great sagacity assured him would stand the test of experiment. Even in this he seems to have been mistaken by his followers. He retained the proportionality of the resistance to the square of the velocity. This they have endeavoured to demonstrate in a manner conformable to newton’s determination of the oblique impulses of fluids; and under the cover of the agreement of this proposition with experiment, they introduced into mechanics a mode of expression, and even of conception, which is inconsistent with all accurate notions on these subjects. newton’s proposition was, that the motions communicated to the fluid, and therefore the motions lost by the body, in equal times, were as the squares of the velocities; and he conceived these as proper measures of the resistances. It is a matter of experience, that the forces or pressures by which a body must be supported in opposition to the impulses of fluids, are in this very proportion. In determining the 
