ciple over and above is necessary to excite our industry, and to prevent our stopping short in the middle of the course. 
v7e need not lose time to describe the cooperation of the foregoing propensity with surprise, in producing the effect that follows any unusual resemblance or dis similitude. surprise first operates, and carries our opinion of the reseinblance or dissimilitude beyond truth. The propensity we have been describing carries us still farther; for it forces upon the mind a conviction, that the resemblance or dissimilitude is complete. ave need no better illustration, than the resemblance that is fancied in some pebbles to a tree or an insect; which resemblance, however faint in reality, is conceived to be wonderfully perfect. The tendency to complete a resemblance acting jointly with surprise, carries the mind sometimes so sar, as even to presume upon future events. In the Greek tragedy entitled 
Phineides, 
those unhappy women feeing the place where it was intended they should be slain, cried out with anguish, " They now saw their cruel destiny bad condemned them to die in that place, being the same where they had been exposed in their insancy.” 
The propensity to advance everything to its perfection, not only co operates with surprise to deceive the mind, but of itself is able to produce that effect. Of this we see many instances where there is no place for surprise; and the sirst we shall give is of resem blance. 
Unumquodque eodem modo diffolvilur quo colligatum efi, 
is a maxim in the Roman law that has no foundation in truth; for tying and loosing, building and demolishshg, are acts opposite to each other, and are performed by opposite means : but when these acts are connected by their relation to the same subject, their connexion leads ns to imagine a sort of resemblance between them, which by the foregoing propen sity is conceived to be as complete as possible. The next instance shall be of contrast. Addison observes" " the palest features look the most agreeable in white; that a face which is oveistnshed appears to advantage in the deepest searlet; and that a dark complexion is not a little alleviated by a black hood.” The foregoing propensity serves to account for these appearances; to make this evident, one of the cases shall suffice. A complexion, however dark, never ap proaches to black : when these colours appear together, their opposition strikes us; and the. propensity we have to complete the opposition, makes the dark ness of complexion vanish out of sight. 
The operation of this propensity, even where there ' is no ground for surprise, is not confined to opinion or conviction : fo powerful it is, as to make us sometimes proceed to action, in ordetf to complete a resemblance or dissimilitude. If this appear obscure, it will be made clear by the following instance. Upon what principle is the 
lex talionis 
founded, other than to make the punishment resemble the mischief? Reason dic tates, that there ought to be a conformity or resem blance between a crime and its punishment; and the foregoing propensity impels us to make the resemblance as complete as possible. Titus Livius J, under the influence of that propensity, accounts for a certain punishment by a resemblance between it and the crime, too subtle for common apprehcnsion. speaking of 
Mettus Fussetius, the Alban general, who, for trea chery to the Romans his alliés, was sentenced to be torn to pieces by horses, he puts the following speech in the mouth of Tullus Hostilius, who decreed the punishment" 
"Fuffeti, inquit, fit ipfi difiere possess fidem ac fiederaservare, vivo tibi ea disdpvtna a me adhibita effet. Nunc, quoniam tuum injanabile ingenium eß, at tu tuo fupplido doce humanum genus ea sancta credere, qua a te violata sunt. Ut igitur paulo ante animum inter Fidenatem Romanamque rem andpitem grfffli, ita jam corpus passim dfirahendum dabis.” 
By the same influence, the sentence is often executed upon the very spot where the crime was committed. In the 
Plectra 
of sophocles, Egistheus is dragged from the theatre into an inner room of the supposed palace, to suffer death where he murdered Agamemnon. shakespeare, whose knowledge of nature is not less profound than extensive, has not overlooked this propensity : 
"Othello. 
Get me some poison, Iago, this night. i’ll not expostulate with her, lest her body and her beauty improvide my mind again. This night, Iago.” 
"Iago. 
Do it not with poison; strangle her in her bed, even in the bed she hath contaminated.” 
“Othello. 
Good, good : the justice of it pleases : very good.” 
Othello, act af.fi, ξ. 
Persons in their last moments are generally seized with an anxiety to be buried with their relations. In the 
Amynta 
of Tasso, the lover, hearing that his mistress was torn to pieces by a wolf, expresses a desire to die the same death. 
Upon the subject in general we have two remarks to add. The first concerns resemblance, which, when too entire, hath no effect, however different in kind the things compared may be. The remark is applicable to works of art only; for natural objects of different kinds have searce ever an entire resemblance. To give an example in a work of art : Marble is a sort of matter very different from what composes an animal; and marble cut into a human figure, produces great plea sure by the resemblance : but if a marble statue be co loured like a picture, the resemblance is so entire as at a distance to make the statue appear a real person : we diseover the mistake when we approach; and no other emotion is raised, but surprise occasioned by thc deception: : sigure still appears a real person, rather than an imitation; and we must use reflection to correct the mistake. This cannot happen in a picture; for the resemblance can never be fo entire as to disguise the imitation. 
The other remark belongs to contrast. Emotionä make the greatest sigure when contrasted in succession;; then the succession ought neither to be rapid, nor immoderately siow : if too slow, the effect of contrast becomes faint by the distance of the emotions; and if rapid, no single emotion has room to expand itself to. its full size, but is stifled, as it were, in the birth by a succeeding emotion. The funeral oration of the bishop of Meux upon the duchess of Orleans, is a per sect hodge podge of cheerful and melancholy represen tations, following each other in the quickest succession: : emotions are best felt in succession;; each emotion separately should be raised to its due pitch, before another be introduced.. 
