speeies , 
that 
we can recollect, a greater, than to that which is seen 
in a 
person who pretends to mimicry and courtly gesture, without possessing the advantages and talents they require; and of which not many people, comparatively speaking, have any remarkable share. 
The inference of this is too obvious to need drawing out, aud we would particularly recommend it to the consideration of those readers who think the common occurrences of a newspaper, c. cannot be properly delivered without a good deal of elbow room 
Although it is impossible to come to particulars in any directions of this kind, yet there is one article of our present subject on which a serviceable remark may be made. In ordinary discourse, when we are parti cnlarly pressing and earnest in what we say, the eye is naturally thrown upon those to whom we address ourselves : And in reading, a turn of this organ now and then upon the hearers, when any thing very remark able or interesting falls in the way, has a good effect in gaining it a proper attention, chut this should not be too frequently used; for ifso, besides its having a tendency to confound the natural importance of different passages, it may not be altogether agreeable to some to have their own reflections broken in upon by a signal, which might be interpreted to hint at their wanting regulation. 
One observation more, and then we shall attempt to recapitulate the substance of this section in the form of a precept. Though it is, when strictly examined, mconslstent, both in speaking and reading, to imitate with action what we are describing, yet as in anything 
comic 
such a practice may suggest ideas that will 
accord 
with those of the subject, it may there be now and then indulged in either of these articles. 
“In a manner similar to that directed with regard to tones, moderate your bodily expressions of the signs of the emotions. And in order to supply, as it were, this deficiency, introduce into your carriage such an easy gracefulness, as may be consistent with your acquirements in these particulars, and the necessary dread which should ever be present of falling into any kind of affectation or grimace.” 
V 
Pauses. 
speech consisting of a succession of di stinct words, must naturally be liable (both from a kind of accident, and a difficulty there may be in be gsuning certain sounds or portions of phrases immediately on the ending of certain others) to several smalf intermissions of voice; of which, as they can have no meaning, nothing farther need here be said. There are, however, some pauses, which the sense necessarily demands;; to these the substance of this section is di rected. 
The pauses 
are 
in part to distinguish the members of sentences from one another, the terminations of complete periods, and to afford an opportunity for taking breath. Besides this, they have a very graceful effect in the modulation, on the same account they are so essential in music. — In both articles, like blank spaces in pictures, they set off and render more conspicuous whatsoever they disjoin or terminate. 
were language made up of nothing but short collo quial sentences, these pauses, though they might do no harm, and would generally be graceful, would however be superseded as to use by the completeness and 
nar rowncss, 
as we may say, of the meaning. But in more diffuse language, composed of several detached sen tences, and which require some degree of attention in order to take in the sense, the intermissions of voice under consideration are of the greatest service, by sig nifying to the mind the progress and completion of the whole passage. Now, though in extensive and differently formed periods there may be members whose completeness of sense might be conceived of various degrees, and hence might seem to require 
a 
set of pauses equally numerous; yet, since the sense does not altogether depend upon these intermissions, and their ratios to one another, if capable of being properly defined, could 'not be accurately observed, grammarians have ventured to conceive the whole class of pauses as reducible to the four or five kinds now in use, and whose marks and ratios are well known g;; that under the eye of taste; and with the assist ance of a particular to be next mentioned, they would not fail in all cafes to suggest intermissions of voice suitable to the sense. But in many of these extenstve and complex periods, rounded with a kind of redundancy of matter, where the full sense is long suspended, and the final words are not very important, there would be some hazard of a misapprehension of the termina tion, had we not more evident and infallible notice of it than that which is given by the pause. This notice is the 
cadence, 
referred to in the section on 
Modulation; 
which, as is there observed, besides the orna mental variety it affords, appears from these remarks to be a very necessary and serviceable article in perspi cuous delivery. 
As this cadence naturally accompanies the end of every entire sense, circumstanced as abovementioned, it may sometimes fall before the 
semicolon, 
but morè generally before the 
colon, 
as well as the period : For these marks are often found to terminate a complete sense; and in these cafes, the relation what follows has to what went before, is signified to the mind by the relative shortness of the stop, and the form of introducing the additional matter. Nor can any bad conse 
g) 
supposing the 
comma 
(,) one 
time, 
the 
semicolon 
(;) will be two; the 
colon 
(:) three, and the 
period (.) 
s also the marks of 
interrogation 
(?) and 
admiration 
(!) four of these times. The blank line ( — or —), and the 
breaks 
between 
paragraphs, 
intimate still greater times; and by the same analogy may be reckoned a double and quadruple period respectively. Now and then these blank lines are placed immediately 
after 
the ordinary points, and then they are conceived only as separating for the îv? the different natures of the matter; — as a question from an answer, — precept from example, — premises from inferences, c. in which case their import is evident. But of late some authors have not scrupled to confound these distinctions; and to make a blank serve for all the pauses universally, or the mark of an indefinite rest, the quantity of which is left to the determination of the reader’s taste. A practice, it. is imagined, too destructive of the intended precision of these typical notices to be much longer adopted. 
