viour’s soul was not to be left 
in 
hell 
5 
and we know that on the day of his crucifixion he went not to hea 
veil : 
for after he had risen from the place of the dead, he forbade one of the women to touch him, as he had not yet ascended to the Father. Hell, therefore, and paradise, continue they, seem to be in this passage the very same thing, the place of the dead; and our savi our’s intention, they add, was not to go to heaven at that time, .but to show his victory' over death and the grave, to whose power all mankind had become sub ject by the disobedience of their sirst parents. 
without pretending to enter into the merits of this dispute, the ingenious Burnet, in his Theory of the Earth, endeavours to prove, upon the authority of the ancient fathers, that paradise lies between the earth and the moon; and the learned Dodwell, on the same authority, has made it the common receptacle of souls till the resurrection; but has not told us whether or not they are to be accountable for the actions of this separate existence at the latter day, or are only to be judged according to the deeds that were done in their bodies. 
This notion of a common receptacle has displeased many. The state of purgation, obscurely hinted in the doctrines of Pythagoras, and openly avowed by Plato and Virgil, has been adopted by the Romish divines, who support their opinion on certain obscure passages of soripture, which are always of a yielding and a waxen nature, may cassly be twisted to any hypothesss, and like general lovers efpouse rather from interest than merit. 
It has displeased others, because they are anxious that the righteous should have a sore taste of their joys, and the wicked of their torments, immediately after death, which they infer to be certainly the case from the parable of the rich man and Lazarus U). But to this it is objected, that the rich man is supposed to be in hell, the place of torments, and that this punishment ought not to take place on their own hypothesss till after the sentence at the resurrection. 
Another argument used for the intermediate state is the visson of st John in the Apocalypse. In this vision the Evangelist saw under the altar the souls of those that were ssain for the word of God and for the testimo ny which they held. Their opponents doubt whether these visible souls were immaterial, as st John heard them cry with a loud voice, and saw white robes given unto every one of them. If they had bodies, that circumssance might chance to prove a resurrection immediately after death, and so supersede the general resurrection at the last day. 
while such conclusions as are here drawn from the parable and vision, say the opposers of an intermediate conscious existence, imply that the dead are already raised, and are now receiving the respective rewards of their virtues and their crimes; those who maintain an intermediate separate existence, who speak of the body as a prison, and of the soul as receiving an increase of power when freed from the body, are certainly not more than consistent with themselves, when they think that this soul would derive an advantage from its after union with either a new system of matter or the old onc, how ever much altered. Baxter, they say, who saw the inconsistency, 
was disposed to reason somewhat 
like Æ 
neae, 
O, Father! can it be that souls sublime 
Return to visit our terrestrial çlime? 
Or that the gett’rous mind, releas’d at death, 
should covet lazy limbs and mortal breath? 
In no one instance, they continue, have Christiann perhaps more apparently than in this argument wrested the scriptures to their own hurt: by thus rashly at temping to accommodate the sacred doctrines of religion to a preconceived philosophical hypothesis, they have laid themselves open to the ridicule of deists, and have been obliged, for the sake of consistency, either to deny or to speak siightingly of the resurrection; which is certainly the surest foundation of their hope, seeing st Paul hath assured us, that if there be no resurrection of the dead, then they which are fallen asseep in Christ are perished, and those who survive may eat and drink, and act as they please, for tomorrow they die; and die, too, never to live again. 
Though this reproof may be rather severe, we are sorry to observe that there seems to have been sometimes too much reason for it. A certain divine j, whose piety was eminent, aud.whose memory vve respect, having written " An Essay toward the proof of a separate state of souls between Death and the Resurrection, and the Commencement of the Rewards of Virtue and Vice immediately after death, ” has taken this motto, " Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil.” “The doctrine, he says, of the resurrection of the body and the conse quent states of heaven and of hell, is a guard and motive of divine force, but it is renounced, by the enemies of our holy Christianity;; should we give up the re compenses of separate souls, while the deist denies thc resurrection of the body, I fear, between both we should sadly enfeeble and expose the cause of virtue, and leave it too naked and defenceless.” 
This author, who wishes much that the punishment of crimes should follow immediately after death, is of opinion, that if heaven intended to check vice and impiety in the world, it has acted unwisely, if it really has deferred the punishment of the wicked to so late a pe riod as the resurrection. " For such, he observes, is the weakness and folly of our natures, that men will not be so much influenced and alarmed by distant prospects, nor so solicitous to prepare for an event which they suppose to be so very far off, as they would for the same event if it commences as soon as ever this mortal life expires. The vicious man will indulge his sensualities, and lie down to sleep in death with this comfort, I shall take my rest here for 
too 
or 1000 years, and perhaps in all that space my offences may be forgotten; or let the worst come that can come, I shall have 
a 
long sweet nap before my sorrows begin : and thus the force of divine terrors is greatly enervated by this delay of punishment.” 
Thus far our author, who thinks that his hypothe sis, if not true, is at least expedient, and that from motives of expediency it ought to 
be 
inculcated as a doc 
