osothe simplicity of the service in the royal dockyards. The British fleet is accordingly distributed into six rates, exclusive of the inferior vessels that usually attend on naval armaments; as sloops of war, armed ships, bomb ketches, fire ships and cutters, or schooners commanded by lieutenants. 
ships of the first-rate mount roo cannon, having 42 pounders on the lower deck, 24 pounders on the middle deck, 12 pounders on the upper deck, and 6 pounders on the quarterdeck and fore eastle. They are manned with 850 men, including their officers, seamen, marines, and servants. 
In general, the ships of every rate, besides the cap tain, have the master, the boatswain, the gunner, the chaplain, the purser, the surgeon, aud the carpenter; all of whom, except the chaplain, have their mates or assistants, in which are comprehended the sailmaker, the master at arms, the armourer, the captain’s clerk, the gunsmsth, c. 
The number of other officers are always in propor tion to the rate of the ship. Thus a first-rate has six lieutenants, six master’s mates, twenty-four midshipmen, and five furgeon’s mates, who are considered as gentlemen : besides the following petty officers; quarter mas ters and their mates, fourteen; boatfwain’s mates and yeomen, eight; gunner’s mates and assistants, six; quar ter gunners, twenty-five ^ carpenter’s mates, two, besides fourteen assistants with one steward,, and steward’s mate to the purser. 
If the dimensions of all ships of the same rate were equal, it would be the simplest and most perspicuous method to collect them into one point of view in a table: but as there is no invariable rule for the general dimen sions. we must content ourselves with but a few re marks on ships of each rate, fo as to give a general idea of the difference between them. 
The Victory, one of the last built of our sirst rates, is 222 feet 6 inches in length, from the head to the stern; the length of her keel, lyi feet 3 inches; that of her gun deck, or lower deck, 186 feet; her ex treme breadth is 51 feet 10 inches; her depth in the hold, 21 feet 6 inches; her burden, 2162 tonnes; and her poop reaches 6 feet before the mizzen mast. 
ships of the second-rate cany 90 guns upon three decks, of which those on the lower battery are 32 pounders; those on the middle, 18 pounders; on the upper deck, 12 pounders; and those on the quarterdeck, 6 pounders, which usually amount to four or six Their compliment of men is .750, in which there are six lieutenants, four master’s mates, 24 midshipmen, and four furgeon’s mates, 14 quartermasters and their matcs^ eight boatswain’s mates and yeomen, six gunner’s mates und yeomen, with 22 quarter gunners, two carpenter’s mates, · with 10 assistants, and one steward and fteward’ s mate. 
ships of the third-rate carry from 64 to so cannon, which are 31, 18, and 9 pounders. The 80 gun ship however begin to grow out of repute, and to give way to those 74, 70, c. which have only two whole battcries; whereas the former have three, with 28 guns planted on each, the cannon of their upper deck being the same as those on the quarterdeck and fore castle of the latter, which are 9 pounders. The compliment in a 74 is 650, and in a 64, 500 men; having, in peace, four 
lieutenants, but in 
war, 
five j : aud whea an admiral 
is aboard, six. They have three master’s mates, 16 midshipmen, three furgeon’s mates, 10 quartermasters and their mates, six boatsvvain’s mates and yeomen, four gunner’s mates and yeomen, with i3 quarter gunners, one carpenter’s mate, with eight assistants, and one stew ard and steward’s mate under the purser. 
ships of the fourth rate mount from 60 to 50 guns, ' upon two decks, and the quarterdeck. The lower tier is composed of 24 pounders, the upper tier of 12 pounders, and the cannon on the quarterdeck and forc castle are 6 pounders. The compliment of a 50 gun ship is 350 men, in which there are three lieute nants, two master’s mates, 10 midshipmen, two furgeon’s mates, eight quartermasters and their mates, four boatfwain’s mates and yeomen, one gunner's mate and onc yeoman, with 12 quarter gunners, one carpen ter’s mate and six assistants, and a steward and steward’s mate. 
All vessels of war, under the fourth rate, are usually comprehended under the general name of 
frigates, 
and never appear in the line of battle. They are divided into the 5th and 6th rates; the former mounting from 40 to 32 guns, and the latter from 28 to 20. The largest of the fifth rate have two decks of cannon, the lower battery being of 18 pounders, and that of the upper deck of 9 pounders; but those of 36 and 32 guns have one complete deck of guns, mounting 12 pounders, besides the quarterdeck and fore castle, which carry 6 pounders. The compliment of a ship of 44 guns is 280 men; and that of 
a 
frigate of 36 guns, 240 men. The first has three, and the second two, lieutenants; and both have two master’s mates, six mid shipmen, two furgeon’s mates, six quartermasters and their mates, two boatfwain’s mates and one yeoman, one gunner’s mate and one yeoman, with 10 or 11 quarter gunners, and one purser’s steward. 
Frigates of the 6th rate carry 9 pounders, those of 28 guns having 3 pounders on their quarterdeck, with' 200 men for their compliment; and those of 24, 160 men : the former has two lieutenants, - the latter, one; and both have two master’s mates, four - midshipmen, one surgeon's mate, four quartermasters and their mates, one boatfwain’s · mate and one yeoman, one gunner’s mate and one yeoman, with six or seven quarter gunners, and one purler’s stewardi - 
The sloops; of war carry from 18 to 8 cannon, the largest of which have six pounders y and the smallest,. viz. those of 8 or 10 guns, four pounders. Their officers are generally the same as in the 6th rates, with little variation; and their compliments of men are from 120 to 60, in proportion' to their force or magnitude. 
N. B. 
bomb vessels are on the same establishment as sloops; but sire shipe and hospital shsps are on that of fifth rates. ', 
Nothing more evidently manisests the great improvement of the marine art, and the degree of perfection to which it has arrived in Britain, than the facility of managing our first rates; which were formerly esteemed incapable of government, un'ess in the most favourable weather 
of 
the summer. 
ships of the second-rate, and those of the third, which have three deeks^ carry their sails remarkably well, and labour very little at sea. They are excellent in a general action, or in cannonading a fortress. Those of the third-rate, which have two tiers, are fit for the ’ 
