Foulon . His character, it may well be imagined, was extremely unpopular; for he is said to have asserted, that he would " make the people of Paris eat hay.” He had retired to the country, but was seized by his ■ own vassals, and brought to Paris with a bundle of hay : tied to his back. In spite of every effort made by Μ. M. Bailly and Fayette to procure him a fair trial at least, she was carried to the 
Place de Greve, 
and hanged at a lamp iron by the enraged multitude. His son-in-law M. Berthier, attempting to defend himself against a similar fate, fell, covered with wounds. Their heads were carried round on poles; and thus the populace became habituated to the sight of blood and murder : they were even taught by popular songs to glory in sucll actions, and particularly by the well known song 
ca ira. 
In consequence of an invitation from the king, M. Neckar returned to France. He was received by the assembly with great applause, and in Paris with infinite solemnity and triumph. He here, however, committed a political error that made some noise. In deploring the late excesses and murders, and taking notice of the arrcst of M. Bezenval, an officer of the swiss guards, he requested of the electors at the Hotel de "Ville, in a solemn harangue, that the past should be forgotten;; proseriptions should cease, and a general amnesty be proclaimed. In a moment of enthusiasm this was agreed to, and the electors decreed what unquestionably exceeded their powers. The districts of Paris were instantly in commotion; the electors alarmed, declared that they only meant that " henceforth the people would punish no man but according to law and, at the same time, to prove that they themselves were free from ambition, they formally renounced all their own powers. The assembly took up the que slion. Mess. Lally, Tolendal, Mounier, Clermont, Tonnerre, Garat junior, and others, declared that no person ought to be arrested without a formal accusation. while Mess. Mirabeau, Robespierre, Barnave, and Gleizen, alleged, on the contrary, that the people were entitled to lay hold of any man who had public ly appeared at the head of their enemies. The debate ended, by admitting the explanation of the electors, and by a declaration that it was the duty of the assem bly to see justice executed in all cases. 
The commotions and enthusiasm of the capital were speedily communicated to the provinces. In every quarter the people seized upon all the arms that could be found, and the military uniformly refused to act against them. Many acts of outrage were committed in Brittany, at strashourg, in the Lionnois, and .elsewhere, in which the nobility were the fusserers. The mischiefs that occurred were usually magnified at a distance; but that very circumstance wa an additional evil. For example : It was stated in the National as sembly that M. de Mesmay, lord of Quincey, invited a number of patriots, among whom were the officers of a neighbouring garrison, to a splendid entertainment at his house, to celebrate the happy union of the three orders : That in the midst of the seast the master of the house contrived to withdraw unnoticed, and to set sire to a train previously laid, which communicated with a quantity of gunpowder in the cellars, in consequence of which the whole company, by a sudden explosion, were blown into the air. It was found 
on 
inquiry, that there was not one word of truth in the whole 
story. 
But before this inquiry could be made, all France had resounded with accounts of the pretended bloody tragedy; and the whole nobility of the kingdom suffer ed in a less or greater degree, from the prejudices ex cited by this unhappy report, the origin of which has never been well explained. It would be vain to state all the idle rumours to which at this time the blind credu lity of the multitude gave currency. At one time, the Aristocrates were cutting down the green corn, at an other time they were burying flour in common sewers, or casting loaves into the seine. One report was no sooner proved to be false than another arose, and the whole nation was agitated by suspicion and alarm. The National Assembly were engaged in framing their cele brated declaration of the rights of man, which was to form the basis of die new constitution, when the alarming accounts, received from all quarters, of the state of anarchy into which the kingdom was falling, obliged them suddenly to turn their attention to objects of practical necessity. The privileged orders found them selves become the objects of universal jealousy and hatred; and that something must instantly be done to save their families and property, which were menaced on every side with persecution and pillage. Regarding the popular torrent as now become irresistible, to save something they resolved to sacrifice a part. 
On the afternoon sitting of the 4th of August, the Viscount de Noailles, seconded by the Duke d’aguil lon, opened one of the most important scenes in the French Revolution, or in the history of any country. These noblemen stated, that the true cause of the corn motions which convulsed the kingdom existed in the misery of the people, who groaned under the double oppression of public contributions and of feudal serviqes. “For three months (said M. de Noailles) the people have beheld us engaged in verbal disputes, while their own attention and their wishes are directed only to things, what is the consequence? They are armed to reclaim their rights, and they see no prospect of obtaining them but by force.” He therefore proposed to do justice as the shortest way of restoring tranquillity, and for that purpose to decree, that henceforth every tax should be imposed in proportion to the wealth of the contributors, and that no order of the state should be exempted from thc payment of public burdens; that feudal claims should be redeemed at a fair valuation; but that such claims as consisted of personal services on the part of the vassal should be abolished without com pensation, as contrary to the irnprescriptible rights of man. The extensive possessions of the noblemen who made these proposals added much lustre to the disinte rested sacrifice which they offered. Their speeches were received with the most enthusiastic applauses by the Assembly and the galleries, and their proposals were decreed by acclamation without a vote. No nation is fo much led by the influence of sudden emotions as the French. The patriotic contagion now spread fast through every breast, and a contest of generosity ensued. The hereditary jurisdictions possessed by the nobles within their own territories were next sacrificed. All places and pensions granted by the Court were sup presled, unless granted as the reward of merit or of actual services. The game laws, which condemned the husbandman, under severe penalties, to leave his proper 
2 
