died John elector of saxony, who was 
succeeded by his 
son John Frederic, a prince of invincible fortitude and magnanimity, but whose reign was little better than one continued train of disappointments and calamities. The religious truce, however, gave new vigour to the reformation. Tsmse who had hitherto been only southeast cret enemies to the Roman pontiff, now publicly threw off his yoke; and various cities and provinces of gcr many enlisted themselves under the religious standards of Luther. On the other hand, as the emperor had now no other hope of terminating the religious disputes Éut by the meeting of a general council, he 
re 
peated his requests to the pope for that purpose. The pontiff (Clement VII whom the history of pastcoun cils filled with the greatest uneasiness, endeavoured to retard what he could not with decency resufe, At last, in 1533, he made a proposal by his legate to assemble a council at Mantua, Placentia, or Bologna; but the Protestants resused their consent to the nomination of an Italian council, and insisted that a controversy which had its rise in the heart of Germany, should be deter mined within the limits of the empire. The pope, by his usual artifices, eluded the performance of his own promise; and, in 1534, was cut off by death, in the midst of his stratagems. His successor Paul III seem ed to show less reluctance to the assembling a general council, and in the year 1535 expressed his inclination to convoke one at Mantua; and, the year following, actually sent circular letters for that purpose through all the states and kingdoms under his jurisdiction. tin’s council was summoned by a bull issued out on the 2d of June 1536, to meet at Mantua the following year but several obstacles prevented its meeting; one of the most material of which was, that Frederic duke of Mantua had no inclination to receive at once so many guests, some of them very turbulent, into the place of his residence. On the other hand, the Protestants were firmly persuaded that, as the council was assembled in 
Italy, and by the authority of the pope alone, the lat ter must have had an undue influence in that assembly; of consequence, that all things must have been carried by the votaries of Rome. For this reason they assembled at smalcald in the year 1537, where they solemn ly protested against this partial and corrupt council, and, at the same time, had a new summary of their doctrine drawn up by Luther, in order to present it to the assembled bishops if it should be required of them. This summary, which had the title of 
The Articles of smalcald, 
is commonly joined with the creeds and confessions of the Lutheran church. 
After the meeting of the general council in man tua was thus prevented, many schemes of accommodation were proposed both by the emperor and the Protestants; but, by the artifices of the church of Rome, all of them came o nothing. In 1541, the emperor appointed a conference at worms on the subject of religion, between persons of piety and learning chosen from the contending parties. This conference, however, was, for certain reasons, removed to the diet which was to be held at Ratishon that same year, and in which the principal subject of deliberation was a me morial presented by a person unknown, containing a project of peace. But the conference produced no other effect than a mutual agreement of the contending par 
ties to refer their matters to a general council, or, if 
the meeting 
of 
such a council should be prevented, to the next German diet. 
This resolution was rendered ineffectual by a variety of incidents, which widened the breach, and put off to a farther day the deliberations which were de ssgned to heal it. The pope ordered his legate to declare to the diet of spire, assembled in 1542, that he would, according to the promise he had already made, assemble a general council, and that Trent should be the place of its meeting, if the diet had no objection to that city. Ferdinand, and the princes who adhered to the cause of the pope, gave their consent to this proposal; but it was vehemently objected to by the Protestants,. both because the council was summoned by the authority of the pope only, and al so because the place was within the jurisdiction of the Pope; whereas they dessred a free council, which should not be biassed by the dictates, nor awed by the proximity, of the pontiff. But this protestation produced no effect. Paul iii.persisted in his purpose, and issued, out his circular letters for the convocation of the council, with the approbation of the emperor. In justice to this pontiff, however, it must be observed, that he showed himself not to be averse to every reformation. He appointed four cardinals, and three other persons eminent for their learning, to draw up a plan for the reformation of the church in general, and of the church of Rome in particular. The reformation proposed in this plan was indeed extremely supersicial and partial, yet it contained some particulars which could scarcely have been expected from those who composed it. They complained of the pride and ignorance of the bishops, and proposed that none should receive orders but learned and pious men; and that therefore care should be taken to have proper masters for the instruction of youth. They condemned transsations from one benefice to another, grants of reservation, non refidence, and pluralities. They proposed that some convents should be abolished; that the liberty of the press should be re strained and limited; that the colloquies of Erasmus should be suppreffed; that no ecclefiastic should enjoy a benefice out of his own country; that no cardinal should have a bishopric; that the questors of st Anthony and several other faints' should be abolished; and, which was the best of all their proposals, that the effects and personal estates of ecclefiastscs should be given to the poor. They concluded with complaining of the prodigious number of indigent and ragged priests who frequented st peter’s church; and declared, that it was a great scandal to see the whores lodged fo magnificently at Rome, and riding through the streets on fine mules, while the cardinals and other ecclesiastics accompanied them in the most courteous manner. — This plan of reformation was turned into ridicule by Luther and sturmius; and indeed it left unredreffed the most intolerable grievances of which the Protestants complained. 
All this time the emperor had been labouring to persuade the Protestants to consent to the meeting of the council at Trent; but when he found them fixed in their opposition to this measure, he began to listen to the sanguinary measures of the pope, and resolved to terminate the disputes by force of arms. The elec tor of saxony and landgrave of Hesse, who were the chief supporters of the Protestant cause, upon this took 
