minished in a greater proportion than can be compen sated by the power of solutson in the body of air, in which the portion expired is at first immersed. To ex plain rain from this çaufe, we must always suppose a constant diminution of heat to take place at the moment of the condensation of the vapour; but we actu ally find that the change from a state of vapour to the fluid state is attended with heat; so that rain must at once oppose its own cause, and continued rains would be impossible, without calling in the aid of other causes. From his own system, Dr Hutton endeavours to ex plain the regular and irregular seasons of rain, either respecting the generality of its appearance, or the re gularity of its return And to obviate the apparent ex ceptions of the theory, from the generality of rain, he explains the proportional quantities of rain, and adds a comparative estimate of climates, in relation to rain, with the meteorological observations made in our own climate. As his principle is at least insufficient, and we think erroneous, it would be useless, even were this a proper place for it, to pursue these various bran ches, which must partake of the errors of the system. In these branches we ought to observe, that there are several just observations, mixed with errors, because eva poration and condensation must at last be the great ba sis of every theory : the mistakes arise from not being aware of all the causes, and misrepresenting the opera tion of those which do exist. 
In a work entitled Thoughts on Meteorology, vo lume II M. de Luc considers very particularly the grand phenomenon of rain, and the numerous circum stances connected with it. He examines the several hy potheses with considerable care; but thinks them, even if admissible, utterly insufficient to account for the forma tion of rain. The grand question in this inquiry is, what becomes of the water that rises in vapour into the atmosphere? or what state it subsists in there, between the time of its evaporation and its falling down again in rain? If it continues in the state of watery vapour, or such as is the immediate product of evaporation, it must possess the distinctive characters essential to that fluid : it must make the hygrometer move towards hu midity, in proportion as the vapour is more or lesa abundant in the air : on a diminution of heat, the humidity, as shown by the hygrometer, mustincrease; and on an increase of the heat the humidity must diminish; and the introduction of other hygroscopic substances, drier than the air, must have the same effeéf as an aug mentation of heat. These are the properties of watery vapour, on every hypothesis of evaporation; and there fore all the water that exists in the atmosphere without possessing these properties, is no longer vapour, but must have changed its nature. M. de Luc shows, that the water which forms rain, though it has ever been, considered and reasuned upon as producing humidity, does not possess these properties, and must therefore have passed into another state. see a full account of his reasoning, and the steps by which he proceeded, in the article Meteorology, n 7, c. Ashe thinks that the vapour passes into an invisible state in the interval be tween evaporation and its falling again in rain, and that in that state it is not sensible to the hygrometer, he considers the laws of hygrology as insufficient for explaining the formation of rain; but he does not pre tend 
to have discovered thejmmediate cause of the fore 

mation of clouds and rain. If it is not in the immediate product of evaporation that rain has its source » if the vapours change their nature in the atmosphere so as no longer to be senhble to the hygrometer, or to the eye; if they do not become vapour again till clouds appear; and if, when the clouds are formed, no alterationis perceived in the quality of the air — we must acknowledge it to be very probable, that the interme diate state of vapour is no other than air — and that the clouds do not proceed from any distinct fluid contained in the atmosphere, but from a decomposition of a part of the air itself, perfectly similar to the rest. 
It appears, to us at least, that M. de luc’s mode of reasoning on this subject agrees better with the phe nomena than Dr hutton’s. The Doctor, however, thinks differently, and published answers to the objections of M. de Luc with regard to his theory of rain; to which M. de Luc replied in a letter which was printed in the Appendix to the 8lst volume of the Monthly Review : but it would extend our article beyond its due bounds, to give a view of this controver sy. see Vapour, water, weather, and wind. 
As to the general quantity of rain that falls, and its proportion in several places at the same time, and in the same place at several times, we have many observations, journals, c. in the Memoirs of the French. a cademy, the Philosophical Transactions, c. Upon measuring, then, the rain falling yearly, its depth, at a medium, and its proportion, in several places, is found as in the following table : Inches. 
At Townley, in Lancaihire, observed by Mr Townley - - 
Upminster, in Essex, by Dr Derham 
Zurich, in swifferland, by Dr scheuchzer Pisa, in Italy, by Dr Mich. Ang. Tilli 
Paris, in France, by M. de la Hire 
Lisle, in Flanders, by M. de Vauban 
424 
1 
32t 
43*· 
1-9 
2+ 
At Upminster. 
At Paris. 
1700 19 Inch. .03 
21 Inch. .37 
1701 18 .69 
27 .77 
1702 20 .38 
17 -45 
1703 23 .99 
18 .51 
1704 I .80 
21 .20 
1705 l6 .93 
14 .82· 
From the Meteorological Journal of the Royal society, kept by order of the president and council, it ap pears that the whole quantity of rain at London, in each of the years specisied below, was as follows,, 
viz. 
Inches. 
1774 
» 
26 
.328 
1775 
- 
24 
•c8 3 s 
1776 
- 
2a 
•354 
1777 
- 
25 
•371 
1778 
- 
20 
•772- 
1779 
- 
26 
.785 
17s0 
*7 
•3*3 
The quantity of rain in 
the four following years at London 
was, 
Inches. 
In 1789 
- 
21 
•976 
1790 
- 
16 
.052 
1791 
- 
15 
•3’° 
J 79-2 
- 
*9 
.489 
