with Antigonus, and assist him in his wars against all 
states and princes except Ptolemy king of Egypt; and that, Tor the effectual performance of the articles stipu lated between them, they should deliver ioo hostages, such as Demetrius should make choice of, except those who bore any public employment. 
Thus was the siege raised, after it had continued a whole year; and the Rhodians amply rewarded all those who had distinguished themselves in the service of their country. They also set up statues to Ptolemy, Caffander, and Lysimachus; to all of whom they paid the highest honours, especially to the sirst, whom they worshipped as a god. Demetrius at his departure presented them with the helepolis, and all the other machines which he had employed in battering the city; from the sale of which, with some additional sums of their own, they erected the famous colossus. After this they applied themselves entirely to trade and navigation; by which means they became quite masters of the sea, and much more opulent than any of the neigh bouring nations. As far as lay in their power, they endeavoured to preserve a neutrality with regard to the jarring nations of the east. However, they could not avoid a war with the Byzantines, the occasion of which was as follows : The Byzantines being obliged to pay a yearly tribute of 80 talents to the Gauls, in order to raise this sum, they came to a resolution of laying a toll on all ships that traded to the Pontic sea. This resolu tion provoked the Rhodians, who were a trading nation, above all the rest. For this reason they immedi ately dispatched ambassadors to the Byzantines, complaining of the new tax; but as the Byzantines had no other method of satisfying the Gauls, they perfisted in their resolution. The Rhodians now declared war, and prevailed upon Prussas king of Bithynia, and Attalus king of Pergamus, to assist them; by which confederacy the Byzantines were so intimidated, that they agreed to exact no toll from ships trading to the Pontic sea, the demand which had been the occasion of the war. 
About this time happened a dreadful earthquake, which threw down the colossus, the arsenal, and great part of the city walls of Rhodes 
y 
which calamity the Rhodians improved to their advantage, sending ambassadors to all the Grecian princes and states, to whom their losses were so much exaggerated, that their countrymen obtained immense sums of money under pretence 
of 
repairing them. Hiero king of syracuse presented them with 100 talents; and, besides, exempted from all tolls and duties such as traded to Rhodes. Ptolemy king of Egypt gave them 
ico 
talents, a million of measures of wheat, materials for building 20 quinqueremes and the like number of triremes; and, besides, sent them 100 architects, 300 workmen, and materials for tepairing their public buildings, to a great value, pay ing them moreover 14 talents a year for the mainte nance of the workmen whom he sent them. Antig© bus gave them 100 talents of silver, with 10, 000 pieces 
of 
timber, each piece being 16 cubits long; 7000 planks; 3000 pounds of iron, as many of pitch and re jin, and 1000 measures of tar. Chryseis, a woman of distinction, sent them 100, 000 measures of wheat, and 3000 pounds of lead. Antiochus exempted from all taxes and duties the Rhodian ships trading to his do 
ttinioas i presented them with 10 galley 
s, and 200, 000 
measures of c®rn, with many other things of great 
va 
lue. Prusias, Mithridates, and all the princes then reigning in Asia, made them proportionable presents : in short, all the Greek towns and nations, all the princes of Europe and Asia, contributed, according to their ability, to the relief f the Rhodians on that occasion; insomuch that their city not only soon rose from its ruins, but attained to an higher pitch of splendour than ever. 
In the year 203 B. C the Rhodians engaged in a war with Philip of Macedon. This monarch had invaded the territories of Attalus king of Pergamus; and because the Rhodians seemed to favour their ancient friend, sent one Heraclides, by birth a Tarentine, to set sire to their fleet; at the same time that he dispatch ed ambassadors into Crete, in order to stir up the Cretans against the Rhodians, and prevent them from sending any assistance to Attalus. Upon this war was im mediately proclaimed. Philip at siril gained an incon siderable advantage in a naval engagement; but the next year was defeated with the loss of 11, 000 men, while the Rhodians lost but 60 men and Attalus 70. After this he carefully avoided coming to an engagement at sea either with Attalus or the Rhodians. The combined fleet, in the mean time, faffed towards the island of Ægina in hopes of intercepting him : but having failed in their purpose, they failed to Athens, where they concluded a treaty with that people; and,, on their return, drew all the Cyclades into a confederacy against Philip. But while the allies were thus walling xheir time in négociations, Philip, having divided his forces into two bodies, sent one, under the cum rhand of Philocles, to ravage the Athenian territories £ and put the other aboard his fleet, with orders to sail to Meronea·, a city on the north side of Thrace. He then marched towards that city himself with a body of forces, took it by assault, and reduced a great many others; so that the confederates would, in all pro bability, have had little reason to boast of their suc cess, had not the Romans come to their assistance, by whose help the war was soon terminated to their advantage. In the war which took place between the Romans and Antiochus the Great king of syria, the Rhodians were very useful allies to the former. 
The 
best part of their fleet was indeed delhoyed by a trea cherous contrivance of Polyxeniades the syrian admiral;; they soon fitted out another, and defeated 
a. 
syrian iquudron commanded by the celebrated Hannibal, the Carthaginian commander; after which, in con junction with the Romans, they utterly defeated the whole syrian fleet commanded by Polyxeniades; which, together with the loss of the battle of Magnesia, so di spirited Antiochus, that he submitted to whatever 
aeon 
ditions the Romans pleased. 
For these serviees the Rhodians were rewarded with the provinces of Lycia and Cana; but tyrannising over the people in a terrible manner, the Lycians applied to the Romans for protection. This was readily granted; but the Rhodians were so much displeased with their interfering in this matter, that they secretly favoured Perses in the war which broke out between him and the Roman republic. For this offence the two provinces abovementioned were taken srom them; but the Rhodians, having banished or put death those 
who had favoured Perses, were again admitted 
into sa voutj 
