markable as the body is larger, 
and 
especially as it is longer. This may be distinctly observed. All floating bodies go into the stream of the river, because there they find the smallest obstruction to the acquisition of this motion along the inclined plane; and when a number of bodies are thus floating down the stream, the largest and longest outstrip the rest. A log of wood floating down in this manner may be observed to make its way very fast among the chips and sawdust which float alongside of it. 
Now when, in the course of our experiments, a body is supported against the action of a stream, and the im pulse is measured by .the force employed to support it, it re plain that part of this force is employed to act against that tendency which the body has to outstrip the stream. This does not appear in our experiment, ■when we move a body with the velocity of this stream through still water having a horizontal surface. 
The other disiinguishing circumstance is, that the re tardations of a stream arising from friction are found to be nearly as the velocities, when, therefore, a stream moving in a limited canal is checked by a body put in its way, the diminution of velocity occasioned by the friction of the stream having already produced its effect, the impulse is not affected by it; but when the body puts the still water in motion, the friction of the bottom produces some effect, by retarding the recess of the water. This, however, must be next to no thing. 
The chief difference will arise from its being almost impossible to make an exact comparison of the velocities: : when a body is moved against the stream, the relative velocity is the same in all the filaments. But ■when we expose a body to a stream, the velocity of the different silaments is not the same; because it decreases from the middle of the stream to the sides. 
Mr Buat sound the total sensible resistance of a plate 12 inches square, and measured, not by the height of water in the tube of the perforated box, but by weights acting on the arm of a balance, having its centre 15 inches under the surface of 
a 
stream moving three feet per second, to be 19, 46 pounds; that of a cube of the same dimensions was 15, 22; and that of a prism three seet long was 13, 87; that of a prism six seet long was 14, 27. The three sirst agree extremely well with the determination of 
m 
and 
q, 
by the experiments with the perforated box. The total resistance of the last was undoubtedly much increased by friction, and by the retrograde force of so long a prism floating in an in dined stream. This last by computation is 0, 223 pounds; this added to 
h (m 
sty), which is 13, 59, gives leaving 0, 46 for the effect of friction. 
If the same resistances be computed on the supposi tion that the body moves in still water, in which case we have 
m 
= 1, and 
q 
for a thin plate = 0, 433 » and 
if 
q 
be computed for the lengths 
of 
the other two bodies 
by the formula 1 — L 1, 42 + “7 —; we shall get for 
q Vs 
the resistances 14, 94; 12, 22; and 11, 49. 
Hence Mr Buat concludes, that the resistances in these two states are nearly in the ratio of 13 to io; This, he thinks, will account for the difference obser ved in the experiments of different authors. 
Mr Buat next endeavours to ascertain the quantity 
of water which is made to adhere su some degree to a 
body which is carried along thro’ still water, or which remains nearly stagnant in the midst of a stream. He takes the sum of the motions in the direction 
of 
the stream, viz. the sum of the actual motions of all those particles which have lost part of their motion, and he divides this sum by the general velocity of the stream. The quotient is equivalent to a certain quantity of water perfectly stagnant round the body, without being able to determine this with precision, he observes, that it augments as the resistance diminishes; for in the case of a longer body, the filaments are observed to con verge to a greater distance behind the body. The stagnant mass ahead of the body is more constant; for the deflection and resistance at the prow are observed not to be affected by the length of the body. Mr Buat, by a very nice analysis of many circumstances, comes to this concluston, that the whole quantity of fluid, which in this manner accompanies the solid body, re mains the same whatever is the velocity. He might have deduced it at once, from the constderation that the curves described by the silaments are the same in all ve locities. 
He then relates a number of experiments made to s certain the absolute quantity thus made to accompany the body. These were made by causing pendulums to oseillate in fluids. Newton had determined the re sistances to such oscillation by the diminution of the arches of vibration. Mr Buat determines the quantity of dragged fluid by the increase of their duration; for this stagnation or dragging is in fact adding a quantity of matter to be moved, without any addition to the moving force. It was ingeniously observed by Newton, that the time of oscillation was not sensibly affected by the reslstance of the fluid : a compensation, almost complete, being made by the diminution of the arches of vibration;; experiment confirmed this. If, there fore, a great augmentation of the time of vibration be observed, it must be aseribed to the additional quantity of matter which is thus dragged into motion, and it may be employed for its measurement. Thus, let a be the length of a pendulum swinging seconds in vacuo, and 
I 
the length of a second’s pendulum swinging in a fluid. Let 
p 
be the weight of the body in the fluid, and P the weight of the fluid displaced by it; P j 
p 
will ex 
Ρ+Λ 
press its weight in vacuo, and ■ will be the ratio 
P I A 
of these weights. We shall therefore have ■ — =- 
/ and Z “PLET 

η 
P express the sum of the fluid difpîaced, and the fluid dragged along, 
n 
being a number greater than unity, to be determined by experiment. The mass in motion is no longer P f 
p, 
but P + η P, while its weight in the fluid is still 
p. 
Therefore we naust have 
, a P fish, _ £ fish \ 
ζ „ρ+?= P ’andrt "" P (z" “1 )· 
Ρ + 
A 
prodigious number of experiments made by 
Mr 
Baat on spheres vibrating in water gave values of », which were very constant, namely, from 1, 5 to 1, 7» and by considering the circumstances which accompa nied the variations of 
n ( 
which he found to arise chiefly 
from the curvature of the path described 
by the 
