different class from those which enthusiasm and impos ture have fabricated among other nations. see mira cle and Prophecy. 
But as the evidence of the divine origin of the prirnse val religion rests particularly on the authority of the first five books of the Old Testament, it may be thought incumbent on us to support our reasoning on this subject, by proving, that the author of those books was indeed inspired by God. This we shall endeavour to do by one decisive argument; for the nature of the ar ticle, and the limits prescribed us, admit not of our en tering into a minute detail of all that has been written on the divine legation of Moses. 
If the miracles recorded in the book of Exodus, and the other writings of the Hebrew lawgiver, were really performed; if the firstborn of the Egyptians were all cut off in one night, as is there related; and if the children of Israel passed through the Red sea, the waters being divided, and forming a wall on their right hand and on their left — it must necessarily be granted, that Moses was sent by God; because nothing less than a divine power was sufficient to perform such wonderful works. But he who supposes that those works were never performed, must affirm that the books recording them were 
forged, 
either at the era in which the miracles are said to have been wrought, or at some subsequent era : There is no other alternative. 
That they could not be 
forged 
at the era in which they affirm the miracles to have been wrought, a very few reflections will make incontrovertibly evident. These books inform the people forwhose use they were written, that their author, after having inflicted various plagues upon Pharaoh and his subjects, brought them, to the number of 600, coo, out of Egypt with a high hand; that they were led by a pillar of cloud through the day, and by a pillar of fire through the night, to the blink of the Red sea, where they were almost overtaken by the Egyptians, who had pursued them with chariots and horses; that, to make a way for their escape, Moses stretched out'his rod over the sea, which was immediately divided, and permitted them to pass through on dry ground, between two walls of water; and that the e gyptians, pursuing and going in after them to the midst of the sea, were all drowned by the return of the waters to their usual state, as soon as the Hebrews arrived at the further shore. Is it possible now that Moses or any other man could have persuaded 600, 000 persons, however barbarous and iliiterate we suppose them, that they had been witnesses of all these wonderful works, if no such works had been performed? Could any art or elo quence persuade all the inhabitants of Edinburgh and Leith, that, they had ycsterday walked on dry ground through the Frith to Kinghorn, the waters being di vided and forming a wall on their right hand and on their left? If this question must be answered in the negative, it is absolutely impossible that the books of Moses, supposing them to have been forged, could have been received by the people who were alive when those won ders are said to have been wrought. 
Let us now inquire, whether, if they be forgeries, they could have been received as authentic at any sub sequent period; and we shall soon find this supposition as impossible as the former. The books claiming Moses for their author speak of themselves as delivered by him, 
and from 
his 
days 
kept in 
the ark of the covenant jan 
ark which, 
upon 
this supposition, had no 
existence 
prior to the forgery. They speak of themseives likewise, not only as. a history of miracles wrought by their author, but as the statutes or municipal law of the nation, of which a copy was to be always in the possession of the priests, and another in that of the supreme magistrate J. Now, in whatever age we suppose these books to have been forged, they could not possibly be received as authentic;; no copy of them could then be found' either with the king, with the priests, or in the ark, though, as they contain the statute law of the land, it is not conceivable that, if they had existed, they could have been kept secret. Could any man, at this day, forge a book of statutes for England or scotland, and make it pass upon these nations sor the only book of statutes which they had ever known? was there ever since the world began a book of sham statutes, and these, too, multifarious and burdensome, imposed upon any people as the only statutes by which they and their farthers had been governed sor ages? such a forgery is evidently impossible. 
But the books of Moses have internal proofs of authenticity, which no other books of ancient statutes e ver had. They not only contain the laws, but also give an historical aecount of their enactment, and the reasons upon which they were founded. Thus they tell us, that the rite of circumcision was instituted as a mark of the covenant between God and the founder of the Jewish nation, and that the practice of it was enforced by the declaration of the Almighty, that every uncircumcised man child should be cut oss srom his people. They inform us that the annual solemnity of the passover wae instituted in commemoration of their deliverance when God slew, in one night, all the firstborn of the egyptians;; the firstborn of Israel, both of men and beast, were on the same occasion dedicated sor ever to God, who took the Levites instead of the firstborn of the men J; that this tribe was consecrated as priests, by whose hands alone the sacrifices of the people were to be offered; that it was death for any person of a different tribe to approach the altar, or even to touch the ark of the covenant; and that aaron’s budding rod was kept in the ark in memory of the wonderful destruction of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, for their rebellion against the priesthood. 
Is it possible now, if all these things had not been practised among the Hebrews from the era of Moses, with a retrospect to the signal mercies which they are said to commemorate, that any man or body of men could have persuaded a whole nation, by means of forged books, that they had always religioussy observed such institutions? Could it have been possible, at any period posterior to the Exodus, to persuade the Israelites that they and their fathers had all been circumcised on the eighth day from their birth, if they had been conscious themselves that they had never been circumcised at all? or that the passover was kept in memory of their deliverance from Egyptian bondage, if no such festival was known among them? 
But let us suppose that circumcision had been practised, and ali their aether rites and ceremonies observed from time immemorial, without their knowing any reason of such institutions; still it must be confessed that the forger of these books, if they 
were 
forged, constructed his 
narrative in 
such a manner as that no man 
