sabbath . The observance of the sabbath, and detesta fion of idolatrous worship, are frequently inculcated together; and, again, the breach of the sabbath, and the worship of idols, are usually reprobated at thc same time. Another good reason sor the institution of a sabbath might be, to remind the Jews of their delive rance from bondage, to inspire them with humanity to strangers and domestics, and to mitigate the rigours of servitude. 
The purposes for which the other festivals of the Jewish religion were instituted appear also of sufficient importance. The great miracle, which, after a series of other miracles, all directed to the same end, finally effected the deliverance of the Jews out of Egypt; and their actualdeparture from that land of servitude, might well be commemorated in the feast of the passover. To recall to the minds of posterity the history of their an cestors, to impress them with an awful and grateful sense of the goodness and greatness of God, and to make them think of the purposes for which his almighty power had been so signally exerted, were surely good reasons for the institution of such a festival. The feast of Pentecost celebrated the sirst declaration of the law by Moses, in the space of fifty days after the feast of the passover. It served also as a day of solemn thanksgiving for the blessings of a plenteous harvest. On the feast of tabernacles, they remembered the wanderings of their ancestors through the wilderness, and expressed their gratitude to heaven for the more comfortable cir cumstances in which they sound themselves placed. The feast of ncw moons served to six their calendar, and determine the times at which the other festivals were to be celebrated; on it trumpets were founded, to give public notice of the event which was the cause of the festival; no servile works were performed, divine service was carefully attended, and the sirst fruits of the month were offered to the Lord. The Jewish let»illator limited his sestivals to a very small number, while the heathens devoted a considerable part of the year to the celebration of theirs. But we perceive the occa sions upon which the Jewish sestivals were celebrated to have been of suitable importance; whereas those of the heathens 
were 
often celebrated on trifling or ridiculous occassons. Piety and innocent recreation shared the Jewish festival; the festivals'of the heathens were chief 
ly 
devoted to debauchery and idleness. 
The Hebrews had other solemn seasons of devotion bessdes the weekly sabbath and these annual festivals. Every seventh year they rested from labour: they were then neither to plough, to sow, nor to prune; and whatever the earth produced spontaneoussy that year belonged rather to strangers, orphans, and the poor, than to the proprietors of the ground. On this year insolvent debtors were discharged from all debts contracted by purchassng the necessaries of life : and the great end of this release from debts contracted during the preceding six years, appears to have been to prevent the Hebrew from flying to the Gentiles and forsaking his religion when embarrassed in his circumstances. None but na tive Israelites and proselytes of righteousness were ad mitted to this privilege j it was resused to strangers, and even to proselytes of the gate. The jubilee was 
a 
festival to be celebrated every fiftieth year. It pro duced the same effects with the sabbatical year as to 
rest from labour and the 
discharge of debts j with this addition, 
that on the 
year of the jubilee slaves obtained them freedom, and the lands reverted to the old pro prietors. On the year of the jubilee, as on the sabba tical year, the lands were to rest uncultivated, and law sults were now to terminate. The chief design of this institutlon appears to have been, to preserve the order of ranks and property originally established in the Hebrew state. None but israelites or circumcised coq verts could enjoy the benefit p.s. this institution; nor could even these hope to regain their estates on the year of the jubilee, 
is 
they sold them for any other purpose but to supply their necessities. The law relative to usury was evidently founded on the same plan of polity with respect to property. To almost any other nation such a law, it must be confessed, would have been unsuitable and unjust; but as the Jews were not de signed sora trading nation, they could have little occa sion to borrow, unless to relieve distress; and as an indulgence to people in such circumstances, the Jew was foi bidden to exact usury srom his brother to whom he had lent money. 
The Jewish legissator, we may well think, would be disposed to adopt every proper method to prevent his nation from falling away into the idolatry of heathen nations. Probably one reason of the distinctions 
between 

clean 
beasts which they were permitted to eat, and 
unclean 
beasts, the eating of which they were tarn >ht to consider as pollution, was to prevent them from con vivial intercourse with profane nations, by which they might be seduced to idolatry. \ve do not readily lit down at table with people who are fond of dlshes which we regard with abhorrence. And if the Jews were taught to loathe the flesh of some of those animals which were among the greatest delicacies of the Gentiles, they would naturally of consequence avoid sitting down at meat with them, either at their ordinary meals or at those entertainments which they prepared in honour of their deities; and this we may with good reason con sider as one happy 
mean 
to preserve them from idola try. Besides, the Jews were permitted, or rather in joined, to eat annuals which the Gentlles reverenced as sacred, and from which they religioussy witli lleld all violence. Goats, sheep, and oxen, were worshipped 
in 
Egypt (see Polytheism and Pan); and several learned writers are of opinion, that Moses directed his people to sacrisice and eat certain of the favourite animale of the Egyptians, in order to remove from their minds any opinions which they might have otherwise entertained of the sanctity of those pretended deities. Many of the observances which Moses enjoined with regard to food, appear to have been intended to inspire the ifrael ltes with contempt for the superstitions of the people among whom they had fo long sojourned. Fhey were to kill the animal which the Egyptians worshipped; 
to 
roast the ssesh which that people ate raw j to eat the head, which they never ate; and to dress the entrails, which they set apart for ‘divination. These distinctions concurred with the peculiarities of their dress, language, government, customs, places, and times of worship, and even the natural situation of their country, by which they were in a maimer confined and fortified on all sides, to separate them in such a manner from neighbouring nations, that they might escape the infection of their idolatry. And if we reflect both on the design for 
which Providence separated thc Israelites from 
other 
