was 
speedily to burst forth in a bloody tempest. — In the present case, the people of Paris became most eager ly interested. Rumours of plots were spread through the country, and a new storm was obviously gathering, when the question was thus got quit of. M. Mounier remarked, that the executive power could possess no negativc against the decrees of the present assembly, which had been nominated by the nation with supreme powers for the express purpose of framing a constitu tion, which was to remain binding over all orders of men. in thc state; and with regard to future legislatures, the king declared by a message, that he wished to possess no more than a 
suspenfive veto. 
It is remarkable that the popular Mirabeau concluded a speech in favour of the absolute 
veto 
of the crown with these words, " That it would be better to live in Constantinople than in France, if laws could be made without the royal sanction.” This political adventurer is, however, accused of having taken care to circulate in Paris a report that he had opposed the 
veto 
with all his influence; and to give credit to the story, he is said to have quitted the assembly just before the division, that his vote might not appear on record against it. 
In the debates about the 
veto 
the month of August was spent; and in the beginning of september a new constitutional question was presented to the assembly by one of its numerous committees. This was, whether the legislative body ought to consist of one or of two chambers? Mounier, Lally, Tollendal, Clermont Tonnerre, and others, who were zealous lovers of freedom upon what were then accounted moderate principles, supported eagerly the idea of establishing two independent chambers iu imitation of the Brstisll constitution; but they were deserted both by the democratic and aristocratic parties. The first of these re garded an upper house or senate as a refuge for the oid aristocracy, or as the cradle of a new one; while the higher nobles and clergy feared lest such an arrange inent might prevent the future reestablishment of the ancient division into three orders. Of 1000 members who voted, only 89 supported the proposal for dividing the legislature into two chambers. 
soon after this, the king gave his sanction to the important decrees of the 4th of August, but not without some hesitation, and expressing doubts of the wisdom of some of them in a letter to the assembly. At the same time the 
inviolability 
of the person of the monarch was decreed, the indivisibility of the throne, and its hereditary descent from male to male in the reigning family. — But we shall not here attempt to enter into a detail of the various articles of the new consti tution as connected with the circumstances under which they became the subject of debate, we shall only state those more remarkable circumstances which tend to ascertain the peculiar changes which the sentiments of the nation underwent su the progress of a revolution the most remarkable that occurs in human history. 
In consequence of the debates upon the questions of the 
veto 
and the two chambers, the minds of parties had become much irritated Paris wore the same threatening aspect that it had done in the months of June and of July preceding; and everything seemed tending towards an important crisis. The aristocratiq party accused their antagonists of 
a 
design to excite 
tew insurrections 
j 
and the charge was retorted, by circulating 
a report that a plot for conveying the king 
to 
Metz was already ripe for execution. 
From the period ôf the defection of the French, guards, who were now in the pay of the capital, the protection of the royal family had been entrusted to these militia or national guard of Versailles, together with the regiment of the 
gardes du corps, 
which was composed entirely of gentlemen. Upon the circulation of the report of the intended flight of the king, the French guards, began to wish to be restored to their ancient employment of attending his person, for the purpose of preventing any attempt of this nature. This idea was eagerly cherished by the capital; and, in spite of every effort used by M. de lafayette, the obvious appearance of approaching disturbances could, not be prevented. The popular party saw the advan tages which they would derive from placing the assembly and the king in thc midst of that turbulent metro polis which had given birth to the revolution, and: upon the attachment of which they could most securely depend. Every encouragement was therefore given by the inost active leaders of what was now called the. 
Democratic 
party to the project of establishing the court at Paris. The ministry were under no small degree of alarm; and the count d’ Estaing, who commanded the national guard of Versailles, requested the aid of an. additional regiment. The regiment of Flanders was. accordingly sent sor : its arrival caused no small degree of anxiety and every effort was instantly made, to gain over both officers and soldiers to the popular cause. 
On the sirst of October the guard du corps, probably“ “the purpose of ingratiating themselves with thc newly arrived regiment, and perhaps to attach them more steadily to the royal cause, invited the officers of the regiment of Flanders to a public entertainment. several officers of the national guard, and others of the military, were invited. Tile entertainment was given in the opera house adjoining to the palace; several loyal toasts were drank; but it is asserted, that when the sa vourite popular toast 
The Nation 
was given, it was rejected by the gardes du corps. In ordinary cases,, such a trifling circumstance as this, or even any other of the transactions of a night of festivity would justly be regarded as unworthy of notice in recording thç more remarkable events in the history of a great nation; but such was now the singular state of affairs, that the most trivial occurrences were instruroental, by their combination, in the production of important con sequences. The queen, having seen from a window of the palace the gaiety which prevailed among the military, prevailed with the king,, who was just returned, from huntings to visit tstem along with herself and the dauphin. Their sudden appearance in. thc saloon kin dled in an instant the ancient euthusiasm of french loyalty. The grenadiers of the regiment of Flanders, along with the swisa chasseurs, had been admitted to the desert; and they, as well as their officers, drank, the health of the King, Queen, and Dauphin, with their swords drawn. The royal family having bowed, with po liteness to the company, retired. — Of all nations, the French are most liable to the influence of sudden impressions: the music played the favourite air, 
0 Ricard 
L 
0 mon Roi! (univers (abandonne, 
"O Richard! 
Ο 
my king! the world abandons thee.” 
Iu 
the eagerness 
of 
