certain butterflies discharged from 
them as 
they were high up in the air. But it seems a very wild conjec ture, as we know of no butterfly whose excrements or eggs are of such a colour, or whose abode is so high, or their flocks so numerous, as to be the occasion of this. 
It is most probable that these bloody waters were never seen falling; but that people feeing the standing waters blood coloured, were allured, from their not knowing how it should elfe happen, that it had rained blood into them. A very memorable instance of this there was at the Hague in the year 1670. swammerdam, who relates it, tells us, that one morning the whole town was in an uproar on finding their lakes and ditches full of blood, as they thought; and having been certainly full of water the night before, they agreed it must have rained blood in the night : but a certain phy sician went down to one of the canals, and taking home a quantity of this blood coloured water, he examined it by the microscope, and found that the water was water still, and had not at all changed its colour; but that it was full of prodigious swarms of small red animals, all alive, and very nimble in their motions, whose colour and prodigious number gave a red tinge to the whole body of the water they lived in, on a less accurate in spection. The certainty that this was the cafe, did not however persuade the Hollanders to part with the miracle: : prudently concluded, that the hidden appearance of such a number of animals was as great a prodigy as the raining of blood would have been; and are assured to this day, that this portent foretold the scene of war and destrnction which Louis XIV afterwards brought into that country, which had before enjoyed 40 years uninterrupted peace. 
The animals which thus colour the water of lakes and ponds are the 
puhces arborofcentes 
of swammerdam, or the water fleas with branched horns. These creatures are of a reddish yellow or flame colour : they live about the sides of ditches, under weeds, and among the mud.; and are therefore the less visible, except at a certain time, which is in the end or beginning of June : it is at this time that these little animals leave their recesses to float loose about the water, to meet for the propagation of their species, and by that means become visible in the colour they give the water. This is visible, more or less, in one part or other of almost all standing waters at this season; and it is always at this season that the bloody waters have alarmed the ignorant. see 
pu l£x Monoculus. 
The raining of 
frogs 
is a thing not less wonderful in the accounts of authors who love the marvellous, than those of blood or stones; and this is supposed to hap pen so often, that there are multitudes who pretend to have been eyewitnesses of it. These rains of frogs always happen after very dry seasons, and are much more frequent in the hotter countries than in the cold ones. In Italy they are very frequent; and it is not uncommon to see the streets of Rome swarming both with young frogs and toads in an instant in a shower of rain; they hopping everywhere between the people’s legs as they walk, though there was not the least appearance of them before. Nay, they have been seen to fall through the air down upon the pavements. This seems a strong circumstance in favour of their being raincd down from the clouds; but, when strictly examined, it comes to nothing : for these frogs that are seen to fall, are always found dead, lamed, or bruised by the fall, and never hop about as the rest; and they are never seen to fall, except close under the walls of houses, from the roofs and gutter of which they have accidentally slipped down. some people, who love to add to strange things yet stranger, affirm that they have had the young frogs fall into their hats in the midst of an open field; but this is idle, and wholly false. 
Others, who cannot agree to their falling from the clouds, have tried to solve the difficulty of their sud den appearance, by supposing them hatched out of the egg, or spawn, by these rains. Nay, some have suppo sed them made immediatelyout of the dust : but there are unanswerable arguments against all these fupposi tions. Equivocal generation, or the spontaneous production of animals out of dust, is now wholly exploded. The fall from the clouds must destroy and kill these tender and soft bodied animals : and they cannot be at this time hatched immediately out of eggs; because the young frog does not make its appearance from the egg in form, but has its hinder legs enveloped in a skin, and is what we call a 
tadpole; 
and the young frogs are at least 100 times larger at the time of their appearance, than the egg from which they should be hatched. 
It is beyond a doubt, that the frogs which make their appearance at this time, were hatched and in being long before : but that the dry seasons had injured them, and kept them sluggishly in holes or coverts; and that all the rain does, is the enlivening them, giving them new spirits, and calling them forth to seek new habitations, and enjoy the element they were destined in great part to live in. Theophrastus, the greatest of all the naturalists of antiquity, has affirmed the same thing, we find that the error of supposing these creatures to fall from the clouds was as early as that author’s time; and also that the truth, in regard to their appearance, was as early known; though, in the ages since, authors have taken care to conceal the truth, and to hand down to us the error, we find this venerable sage, in a fragment of his on the generation of animals which appear on a sud den, bantering the opinion, and asserting that they were hatched and living long before. The world owes, however, to the accurate signior Redi the great proof of this truth, which Theophrastus only has affirmed : for this gentleman, diffecting some of these new appearing frogs, found in their stomachs herbs and other half di gested food; and, openly showing this to his credulous countrymen, asked them whether they thought that na ture, which engendered, according to their opinion, these animals in the clouds, had also been so provident as to engendcr grass there for their food and nourish rnent? 
To the raining of frogs we ought to add the raining of 
grasshopi ers 
and 
iocojts, 
which have sometimes appeared in prodigious numbers, and devoured the fruits of the earth. There has not been the least pretence for the supposing that these animals descended from the clouds, but that they appeared on a sudden in prodigious numbers. The naturalist, who knows the many accidents attending the eggs of these and other the like animals, cannot but know that some seasons will prove particularly favourable to the hatching them, and the prodigious number of eggs that many insects lay could not but every year bring us such abundance of the young, were they not liable to many accidents, and had not ριο vident nature taken care, as in many plants, to continue 
