other ; is less easily calcinable, and much less volatile. Its calx is grey, and more or less brown; and when su fed with vitrisiable matters, it changes into a beautiful blue glass called 
smalt. 
This calx, then, is one of those which preserve always 
a 
part of their inflammable prin ciple. It is soluble in acids, as the regulus is. This regulus is soluble in vitriolic, marine, nitrous acids, and in aqua regia, to all which it communicates colours. The solution in vitriolic acid is reddish; the solution in marine acid is of a fine bluish green when hot, and its colour is almost totally effaced when cold, but is easily recoverable by heating it, without being obliged 
to 
uncork the bottle containing it. This solution 
of 
the calx of regulus of cobalt is the basis of the sympa thetic ink; for without marine acid this ink cannot be made. All the solutions of regulus of cobalt may be precipitated by alkalis; and these precipitates are blue, ■which colour they retain when vitrisied with the strongest 

sire. 
Not only sympatlietic ink, but also regulus of cobalt, may be made from the zaffre commonly sold; which is nothing else than the calx of regulus of cobalt mixed with more or less pulverised flints. For this purpose we must separate as well as we can the powder of flints from it, by washing, as M. Beaumé docs, and then reduce it with black flux and sea salt. Regulus of cobalt seems incapable of uniting with sulphur : but it easily unites with liver of sulphur; and the union it forms is so intimate, that M. Beaumé could not sepa rate these two substances otherwise than by precipita tion with an acid. 
Many curious and interesting remarks are still to be discovered concerning this singular semimetal, and we may hope to receive further information from the en deavours of chemists who have undertaken the exami nation of it. M. Beaumé particularly has made con siderable experiments on this subject, part of which he communicates to the public in his Course of Chemistry, and from whom we have borrowed the most of the above observations. see Cihenhstry, n 1294, c. 
rehearsal, in music and the drama, an essay •r experiment of some composition, generally made in private, previous to its representation or performance in public, in order to render the actors and performers more perfect in their parts. 
REICHENBERG, in Bohemia, 95 miles west of Prague, 205 northwest of Vienaa, N. Lat. 50. 2. E. Long. 12. 25. is only remarkable as the place where the Prussian army defeated the Austrians on the ist of April 1757. The Austrian army, commanded by Count Konigseck, was posted near Reichenberg, and was attacked by the Prussians under the command of the prince of Brsinfwick Bevern. The Prussians were 20, 000, and the Austrians 28, 000 : the action began at half after six in the morning, when the Prussian lines were formed, and attacked the Austrian cavalry, which was ranged in three lines of 30 squadrons, and their two wings sustained by the infantry, which was posted among felled trees and intrenchments. The Austrians had a village on their right, and a wood on their left, where they were entrenched. The Prussian dragoons and grenadiers cleared the entrenchment and wood, and entirely routed the Austrian cavalry; at the same time, the redoubts that covered Reichenberg were taken by General Lestewitz; and 
the Austrians were entirely 
defeated. The Prussians had seven officers and 100 men killed; 14 officers and iyo men wounded. The Austrians had 1000 men killed and wounded; 20 of their officers and 400 men taken prisoners. The action ended at eleven. 
rein dber, or 
Tarandus. 
see Cervus, n 4. 
reins, in anatomy, the same with Kidneys. see Anatomy, n ιοί. 
Reins 
of a Bridle, 
are two long ships of leather, sastened on each side of a curb or suaffle, which the rider holds in his hand, to keep the horse in subjection. 
There ia also what is called 
false reins; 
which is a lath of leather, passed sometimes through the arch of the banquet, to bend the horse’s neck. 
REJOINDER, in law, is the defendant’s answer to the plaintiff’s replication or reply. Thus, in the court of chancery, the defendant puts in an answer to the plaintiff’s bill, which is sometimes also called an 
exception; 
the plaintiff’s answer to that is called a 
replication, 
and the defendant’s answer to that a 
rejoindre. 
RELAND (Adrian), an eminent Orientalist, born at Ryp, in North Holland, in 1676. During three years study under surenhusius, he made an uncommon progress in the Hebrew, syriac, Chaldee, and Arabic languages; and these languages were always his fa vourite study. In 1701, he was, by the recommendation of King william, appointed professor of Oriental languages and ecclesiastical antiquities in the university of Utrecht; and died of the smallpox in 1718. Hc was distinguished by his modesty, humanity, and learning; and carried on a correspondence with the most eminent scholars of his time. His principal works are, I. An excellent description of Palestine. 2. Five dis sertations on the Medals of the ancient Hebrews, and several other dissertations on different subjects. 3. Au Introduction to the Hebrew Grammar. 4. The an tiquities of the ancient Hebrews, 5. On the Mahometan Religion. These works are all written in Latin. 
RELATION, the mutual respect of two things, or what each is with regard to the other. see Metaphysics, n 93, c. and 128, c. 
Relation, in geometry. see Ratio. 
Relation, is also used for analogy. see ana logy, and Metaphysics, p. 529, c. 
RELATIVE, something relating to or respecting another. 
Rrlative, in music. see Mode. 
rslatike terms, 
in logic, · are words which imply relation : such are master and servant, husband and wife, c. 
In. grammar, relative words are those which answer to some other word foregoing, calied the 
antecedent; 
such are the relative pronouns 
qui, qua, quod, 
c. and in English, 
who, whom, which, 
c. The word answering to these relatives is often understood, as, " I know whom you mean, ” for " I know the person whom you mean.” 
RELAXATION, in medicine, the act of loosening or siackening; or the looseness or ssacknefs of the fibres, nerves, muscles, c. 
RELAY, a supply of horses, placed on the road, and appointed to be ready for a traveller to change, in order to make the greater expedition. 
release, in law, is a discharge or conveyance of a man’s right in lands or tenements, to another that 
