ter grounds than any of your’a : our Lord has declared it in express terms; and whether the soul be immortal or not, we can easily believe what'lie said is true, as we know him whom we have trusted. 
These, with Plato, suppose, that the soul is here as in prison; though how or at what time it should sirst have come into this dungeon they have not determined. They have only agreed, that upon its enlargement all its faculties are to receive an increase cf power; and " ha »shg already equipped it so exquisitely with consciousness, activity, and perception in and of itself, and put it into so complete a capacity for happiness and misery in a separate state, ” their hypothesis does not require them to admît the least occasion for a resurrection; which accordingly is said to have been an article of baxter’s creed O). 
A third opinion, which extends likewise to every spe cies of plant and animal, is, that all souls were created at once with bodies of aether; that these bodies, occupying only 
a 
very small space, were packed up in their sirst progenitors, and there left to be afterwards evolved and clothed with matter of a grosser kind by acts of gene ration and consequent nutrition. For the proof of this theory we are referred to the small animals seen through the microscope, and likewise to those which are supposed to escape even microscopic observation; but, above all, to the eggs of insects, which, though scarcely per ceptible, yet contain in embryo a future caterpillar and all its coats, and within these a future butterfly with its legs and wings. These philosophers can per haps account for the general taint of original sin in some other way than has hitherto been done, we have only to add, that on their scheme the resurrection is not a matter that seems to be indifferent. 
The next thing that falls to be considered is the place of the dead. From a natural enough afl’ociation of ideas, an opinion had very early prevailed, that the spirit continued near to the body; and the offerings therefore intended for the dead were by most nations pre sented at the grave; and that on which the departed spirit is supposed to rest is always placed near the grave in China. 
From the dreams of the night and the natural tendency of the fancy to work and to summon up spectres when the world around us is involved in darkness, it has also been imagined, that these spirits delight in the night and shadow of death P), or have been prohibited from enjoying the exhilarating beams of day. And hence we are told, 
That in the dismal regions of the dead 
Th’ infernal king once rais’d his horrid head; 
leap’d from his throne, lest neptune’s arm should lay 
H is dark dominions open to the day, 
And pour in light. 
The nations, therefore, who have fancied a general receptacle for the dead, have thus been induced to 
place it in the west Q), where the night begin and the day ends. That part of the world which, in the division of isis father’s dominions, fell to Pluto the in sernal god, and where, according to Lactantius, satan holds the empire of darkness, the Friendly Issanders have placed to the westward of a certain issand which they call 
Tejee.; 
some tribes of American Indians, in a country beyond the western mountains; and Homer, somewhere to the westward of Greece at the boundaries of the ocean, 
where in a lonely land and gloomy celis 
The dusky nation of Cimmeria dwells; 
The sun ne’er views th’ uncomfortable seats when radiant he advances nor retreats. 
Unhappy race! whom endless night invades, 
Clouds the dull air, and wraps them round in shades. 
Another opinion entertained by the Greeks and some other nations was, that the place 
of 
departed spirits is under the earth. This opinion is frequently mentioned in Homer, in Virgil, and; J acted to by the Jewish prophets. As for the prophets, we know the circumstance from which they borrowed it : it was borrowed fr»m those subterraneous vaults where their chiefs were bu ried, and which have been described by modern travellers In the sides of these caverns there is ranged a great number of cells; and in these cells the mighty lay in a sort of state, with their weapons of war and their swords at their head. To these kinds of Egyptian cemeteries Ezekiel alludes, when he says, " that they shall not lie with the mighty that are fallen of the uncircum cised, who are gone down to hell with their weapons of war, and they have laid their swords under their head.” And Isaiah, when thus speaking of the prince of babylon" " shalt be brought down to hell, 
to the sides of the pit. 
Hell from beneath is moved for thee, to meet thee at thy coming; it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the earth; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations. All the kings of the nations, even all of them, lie in glory, every one in his own house.” 
Many of the ancient fathers of the church assertedr only, that the dead, are now 
in abditis receptaculis, 
or in certain hidden and concealed places. 
Orpheus, Origen, and some others of the fathers, with the ancient Caledonian bard Ossian, and the learn ed Dodwell among the moderns, imagined that the soul, when it left the body, went into the air, and resided somewhere between the surface of the earth and the moon. 
Those who believed in a transmigration caused the soul at death only to enter a new body, and kept the departed always with the living. This creed has been found in India, in Egypt, in Mexico, and in all those countries where picture writing has been much used. In this species of writing, the same picture is on fancied analogy transferred by metaphor to signify ei 
O) 
An 
Historical View of the Controversy concerning an Intermediate state, and the separate Rxistence of the soul. 
P) some Turkish ghosts are an exception, who use lamps or candles in their tombs, when their friends choose to supply them with these luxuries. 
Q) The 
west 
and 
darknofs 
are synonymous in Homer, Λ r ον/* οχ» »»«■. 
(Odyfi 
“O 
my friends 
1 which is the west, or which is the east, the place of darkness, or that of the morning, ■ we cannot learn»’’ 
