the species by 
a 
very numerous stock of southeast : ds, of which perhaps not one in 500 need take root in order to continue an equal number of plants. As it is thus also in regard to insects, it cannot but happen, that if a favourable season encourage the hatching of all those eggs, a very finall number of which alone were necessiry to continue the species, we must, in such seasons, have a proportionate abundance of them. There appeared a .bout 
ζο 
years ago, in London, such a prodigious swarm of the little beetle we call the 
lady cow, 
that the very .posts in the streets were everywhere covered with them. But thanks to the progress of philosophy among us, we had no body to assert that it rained cow ladies, but con tented ourselves with saying that it had been a favour able season for their eggs. The prodigious number of a sort of grub which did vast mischief about the same period among the corn and grass by eating off their roots, might also have been supposed to proceed from its having rained grubs by people fond of making everything a prodigy.; but our knowledge in natural history assured us, that these were only the hexapode worms of the. common hedge beetle called the 
cockchafer' 
'raining of 
fish 
has been a prodigy also much talked of in.france, where the streets of 
a 
town at some distance from Paris, after a terrible hurricane in the night, which tore up trees, blew down houses, c. were found in a manner covered with fish of various sizes. Nobody here made any doubt of these having fallen from the clouds; nor did the absurdity of fish, of five or six inches long, being generated in the air, at all startle the 
Î 
>eople, or shake their belief in the miracle, till they bund, upon inquiry, that a very well stocked fishpond, which stood on an eminence in the neighbourhood, had been blown dry by the hurricane, and only the great fish left at the bottom of it, all the smaller fry having been .tossed into their streets. 
Upon the whole, all the supposed marvellous rains have been owing to substances naturally produced on the earth, and either never having been in the air at all, or only carried thither by accident. 
In sllesia, after a great dearth of wheat in that country, there happened a violent storm of wind and rain, and the earth was afterwards covered, in many places, with small round seeds. The vulgar cried out that pro vidence had sent them food, and that it had rained 
mil iet : 
but these were, in reality, only the seeds of a spe cies of veronica, or speed well, very common in that country; and whose seeds being just ripe at that time, the wind had dislodged them from their capsules, and scattered them about. In our own country, we have histories of rains of this marvellous kind, but all fabu lous. It was once laid to rain 
wheat 
in wiltshire; and the people were all alarmed at it as a miracle, till Mr Dole showed them, that what they took for wheat was .only the seeds or kernels of the berries of ivy, which being then fully ripe, the wind had dislodged from the fides of houses, and trunks of trees, on which the ivy that produced them crept. 
And we even once had a raining of fish near the coast of Kent in a terrible hurricane, with thunder and lightning. The people who saw small sprats strewed all about afterwards, would have it that they had fallen from the clouds; but those who considered how far the high winds have been known to carry the seawater, did not wonder tlrat they should be able to carry small fish with it so small a part of the way. 
In the Pllilosophical Transactions for 1782 we have the following account of a preternatural kind of rain by Count de Gioeni : “The morning of the 24th instant there appeared here a most singular phenomenon. Every place exposed to the air was found wet with a coloured cretaceous grey water, which, after evapoia ting and filtrating away, left every place covered with it to the height of two or three lines; and all the ironwork that was touched by it became rusty. 
"The public, inclined to the marvellous, fancied va -- rious causes of this rain, and began to fear for the ani mals and vegetables. *► 
"In places where rainwater was used, they abstain ed from it : some suspecting vitriolic principles to be mixed with it, and others predicting some epidemical disorder" 
"who had observed the explosions of Etna 20 days and more before, were inclined to believe it origi nated from one of them. 
"The shower extended from n. jn.e. to ssw. over the fields, about 70 miles in a right line from the vertex of Etna. 
“There is nothing new in volcanos having thrown up fand, and also stones, by the violent expansive force generated within them, which fand has been carried by the wind to distant regions. 
“But the colour and subtlety of the matter occasion ed doubts concerning its origin; which increased from the remarkable circumstance of the water in which it came incorporated; for which reasons some other principle or origin was suspected. 
“It became, therefore, necessary by all means to as certain the nature of this matter, in order to be con vinced of its origin, and of the effects it might produce. This could not be done without the help of a chemical analysis. To do this then with certainty, I endeavour ed to collect this rain from places where it was most probable no heterogeneous matter would be mixed with it.. I therefore chose the plant called 
brajfica capitata, 
which having large and turned up leaves, they contain ed enough of this coloured water : many of these I emptied into a vessel, and left the contents to settle till the water became clear. 
"This being separated into another vessel, I tried it with vegetable alkaline liquors and mineral acids; but could observe no decomposition by either. I then evaporated the water in order to reunite the substances that might be in solution; and touching it again with the asoresaid liquors, it showed a slight efferveseence with the acids, when tried with the syrup of violets, this became a pale green; so that I was persuaded it contained a calcareous salt. with the decoction of galls no precipitation was produced. 
"The matter being afterwards dried in the shade, it appeared a very subtle fine earth, of a cretaceous co lour, but inert, from having been diluted by the rain. 
"I next thought of calcining it with a slow fire, and it assumed the colour of a brick. A portion of this being put into a crucible, I applied to it a stronger heat; by which it lost almost all its acquired colour. Again, I exposed a portion of this for a longer time to a very violent heat (from which a vitrification might be 
