hath 
some former estate in possession. 
The 
words generally used therein are " remised, released, and for ever quit claimed.” And these releases may inure, either, I. By way of 
enlarging an e slate, 
or 
enlarger V effate : 
as, if there be tenant for life or years, re mainder to another in see, and he in remainder releases all his right to the particular tenant and his heirs, this gives him the estate in fee. But in this cafe the releffee must be in 
possession 
of some estate, for the release to work upon; for if there be lessee for years, and, before be enters and is in possession, the lessor releases to him all his right in the reversion, such release is void for want of possession in the releffee. 
2. 
By way of 
passing an effate, 
or 
mitter i’eftate : 
as, when one of two coparceners releaseth all his right to the other, this passeth the fee simple of the whole. And, in both these cases, there must be a privity of estate between the releffor and releffee; that is, one of their estates must be so related to the other, as to make but one and the same estate in law. 3. By way of 
passing a right, 
or 
mitter le droit : 
as if a man be disseised, and releaseth to his diffeisor all his right; hereby the disseisor acquires a new right, which changes the quality of his estate, and renders that lawful which before was tortious. 4. By way of 
extinguijhment : 
as if my tenant for life makes a lease to A for life, re mainder to B and his heirs, and I release to A; this extinguishes my right to the reversion, and shall inure to the advantage of b’s remainder as well as of a’s particular estate. 
5. 
By way of 
entry aad feoffment : 
as if there be two joint diffeisors, and the diffeisee releases to one of them, he shall be sole seized, and shall keep out his former companion; which is the same in effect as if the diffeisee had entered, and thereby put an end to the diffeisin, and afterwards had enfeoffed one of the diffeisors in see. And hereupon we may oh serve, that when a man has in himself the possession of lands, he niust at the common-law convey the free hold by feoffment and livery; which makes a noto riety in the country : but if a man has only a right or 
a 
future interest, he may convey that right or interest by a mere release to him that is in possession of the land : for the occupancy of the releffee is a matter of sufficient notoriety already. 
RELEVANCY, in scots law. see Law, N CLXXXVI 48. 
relics, in the Romish church, the remains of the bodies or clothes of saints or martyrs, and the in struments by which they were put to death, devoutly preserved, in honour to their memory; kissed, revered, and carried in procession. 
The respect which was justly due to the martyrs and teachers of the Christian faith, in a few ages increased almost to adoration; and at length adoration was really paid both to departed saints and to relics of holy men or holy things.. The abuses of the church of Rome, with respect to relics, are very flagrant and notorious. For such was the rage for them at one time, that, as 
F. 
Mabillon a Benedictine justly complains, the altars were loaded with suspected relics; numerous spurious ones being everywhere offered to the piety and devotion of the faithful. He adds, too, that bones are of 
ten 
consecrated, which, so far from belonging to saints, probably do not belong to Christians. From the cata 
combs numerous relics have been taken,, and yet it is not known who were the persons interred therein. In the nth century, relics were tried by fire, and those which did not consume were reckoned genuine, and the rest not. Relics were, and still are, preserved on the altars whereon mass is celebrated; a square hole being made in the middle of the altar, big enough to receive the hand, and herein is the relic deposited, be ing sirst wrapped in red silk, and enclosed in a leaden box. 
The Romanists plead antiquity in behalf of relics : For the Manichees, out of hatred to the flesh, 
which 
they considered as an evil principle, resused to.honour the relics of saints; which is reckoned a kind of proof that the Catholics did it in thc first ages. 
we know, indeed, that the toucliing of linen clothes on relics, from an opinion of some extraordinary virtue derived therefrom, was as ancient as the sirst ages, there being a bole made in the coffins of the 40 martyrs at Constantinople expressly for this purpose. The honouring the relics of saints, on which the church of Rome afterwards founded her superstitious and lucrative use of them, as objects of devotion, as a kind of charms or amulets, and as instruments of pretended miracles, appears to have originated in a very ancient custom, that prevailed among Christians, of assembling at the cemeteries or burying places of the martyrs, for the purpose of commemorating them, and of performing divine worship. when the profession of Christianity obtained the protection of the civil government, under Constantine the Great, stately churches were erected over their sepulclires, and their names and memories were treated with every possible token of affection and respect. This reverence, however, gradually exceeded all reasonable bounds; and those prayers and religious servsces were thought to have a peculiar sanctity and virtue, which were performed over their tombs. Hence the practice which afterwards obtained, of depositing relics of saints and martyrs under the altars in all churches. This practice was then thought of such importance, that st Ambrose would not consecrate a church because it had no relics; and the council of Constantinople in Trullo ordained, that those altars should be demolished under which there were found no relics. The rage of procuring relics for this and other purposes of a similar nature, became fo excessive, that in 386 the emperor Theodosius the Great was obliged to pass a law, forbidding the people to dig up the bo dies of the martyrs, and to traffic in their relics. 
such was the origin of that respect for sacred relics, which afterwards was perverted into a formal worship of them, and became the occasion of innumerable processions, pilgrimages, and miracles, from which the church of Rome hath derived incredible advantage. — In the end of the ninth century, it was not sufficient to reverence departed saints, and to confide in their intercessions and succours, to clothe them with an imaginary power of healing diseases, working miracles, and delivering from all sorts of calamities and dangers; their bones, their clothes, the apparel and furniture they had posseffed during their lives, the very ground which they had touched, or in which their putrisied carcases were laid, were treated with a stupid veneration, and supposed to retain the marvellous virtue of healing all disorders both of body and mind, and of defending such as possessed 
them against all the assaults and devices of the de 
