to be received jo years hence, and the rate of interest Ç 
percent, 
is equal to .6! 39x10, 0000 = 6139.00c0i. or 6139k Again, thc present value of 10, 000 1. due in ten years, the rate of interest being 3 
percent, 
is .7441x10, 000 = 7441. 
rkkekaion of series, 
in algebra, a kind of reversed operation of an infinite series. see series. 
REVIVIFICATION, in chemistry, a term ge nerally applied to the distillation of quickiilver from cinnabar. # 
Comsmssion of RE VIE W, is a commission some times granted, in extraordinary cafes, to revile the sentence of the court of delegates, when it is appre hended they have been led into a material error. This commission the king may grant, although the statutes 24 and 25 Hen. VIII declare the sentence of the de legates definitive : because the pope, as supreme head by the canon law, used to grant such commission of review; and such authority as the pope heretofore exerted is now annexed to the crown by statutes 26 Hen. A HI. 
C I. 
and 1 Eliz. C 
I. 
But it is not matter of right, which the subject may demand 
ex debito justitia; 
but merely a matter of favour, and which therefore is often denied. 
Review, is the drawing out all or part of the army in line of battle, to be viewed by the king, ora general, that they may know the condition of the troops. 
At all reviews, the officers should be properly arm ed, ready in their exercise, salute well, in good time, and with a good air; their uniform genteel, c. The men should be clean and well dressed; their accoutrements well put on; very well sized in their ranks; the sergeants expert in their duty, drummers perfect in their beatings, and the sifers play correct. The manual ex ercise must be performed in good time, and with life; and the men carry their arms well; march, wheel, and form with exactness. All manœuvres must be performed with the utmost regularity, both in quick and siow time the firings are generally 36 rounds; viz. by companies; by grand divisions; by sub dlvisions; ob liquely, advancing, retreating; by files; in the square; street firings, advancing and retreating; and lastly, a volley. The intention of a review is, to know the condition of the troops, see that they are complete and perform their exercise and evolutions well. 
REVIEW is also applied to Literary Journals, which give a penodical view of the state of literature j as the Monthly Review, the Critical Review, the British Critic, and Analytical Review, c. 
REUNION island, an isiand in the south sea, discovered by the French on the 16th December 1773; lying, according to M. de Pages, in latitude 48° 
21", 
and longitude 663 47", the variation of the needle being 30° always towards northwest. The road and harbour are extremely good, aud the latter from 16 to 8 fathoms deep at the very shore. The coast on each side is lofty, but gieen, with an abrupt descent, and swarms with a species of bustards. The penguins and sea lions, which swarmed on the sands, were nowise alarmed at the approach of those who landed; from whence M. de Pages concluded that the country was wholly uninhabited. The soil produces a kind of grass, about sive .inches long, with a broad black leaf, and seemingly of 
ά 
rich quality — but there was no vestige of a tree or 
human habstatifln, see 
Travels round the Warldby 
M, 
de Pages, Vol, III chap. VIII and IX 
REVOLUTION, in politics, signisies a change in the constitution of a state; and is a word of different import from 
revolt, 
with which it is sometimes confound ed, when a people withdraw their obedience from their governors for any particular reason, without overturning the government, or waging an offeofive war against it, they are in a state of revolt; when they over turn the government and form a new one for themselves, they effect a 
revolution. 
That which is termed 
the revolution 
in Britain is the change which, in 1688, took place in consequence of the forced abdication of king James II when the Protestant succession was establiihed, and the constitution restored to its primitive purity. Of this important transaction, which constrmed the rights and liberties of Britons, we have endeavoured to give an impartial account under another article (see Britain, n 281, cof the rise and progress of the American revolution, which is still fresh in the memory of our readers, a large detail is given under the article America : But there are two other revolutions yet depending, of which some account will be expected in this place. 
The Polish revolution, which, in all its circumstances, was perhaps the least exceptionable of any in the records of history, we have already traced to the period when the amiable king, over awed by the arms of Russia, was obliged to undo his patriotic work, and give his sanction to the restoration of the old and wretched government (see Poland). since that period, kos ciusko’s army has been completely defeated, himself made a prisoner, warsaw taken, and the whole king dom subdued by the powers combined against it. what will be the consequence of this success may perhaps be conceived, but the rumours of the day art various. At one time we are told, that Poland is to be no longer an independent state, but to be divided among the three great powers which formerly wrested from it some of its most valuable provinces. At another time, we hear of the distnterested intention of the Empress, to restore the king to his original authority; although she has, in the mean time, driven him from his capital, where she herself exercises sovereign power. And a third report says, that stanillaus is to retire with a large pension, and a Russian prince to step into his throne. The strst of these rumours we think much more probable than the other two : especially as it seems constrmed by the following letter sent from grod no, on the 18th of January, by the unfortunate king to the British ambassador. 
"My dear Gardener — The characters with which you and I have been invested seem to be now almost at an end. I do not expect to see you again, but it is of importance to me to bid you farewell; and this I do srom the bottom of my heart. You will preserve a place in my heart till death; and I hope that at last we shall meet again, in a place where upright minds, ac cording to my opinion, will be sor ever united. 
“Everything belonging to the usual etiquette has been so much deranged and interrupted by my sad sat, that most probably neither you nor 
I 
wili he able to fulfil the diplomatic customs. 
“But he assured, that 
I 
love and honour your king 
