channel here is narrow. Immediately behind the house of Rasay are the ruins of an ancient chapel, now used as the family burying place. 
. Dr Johnson, in his'1'our, expresses the highest satisfac tion at the reception he met with when in Rasay from Mr Macleod. 
rascians, a poor oppressed people who dwelled - on both sides of the Danube, and who, about the year 1594, being weary of the Turkish thraldom, first took 13 of their vessels upon that river; and then drawing together a body of fifteen thousand men between Buda and Belgrade, twice defeated the pasha of Temeswar with a body of fourteen thousand Turks. They afterwards took Baczkerek, four miles from Belgrade, and the castle of Ottadt; then laying siege to that of Beche, on the Theyssa, the old pasha of Temeswar marched to relieve it with eleven thousand men; but the Rascians encountering them, slew near ten thousand, and took 18 pieces of canon. The consequence of this victory was the reduction of wersetza and Lutz. Then, send irig to the archduke for aid and gunners, they offered to put themselves and their country under the emperor’s protection. 
rasor bill. seeatca, n 
rasox fish. 
see solen. 
rastall (John), a printer and miscellaneous writer, was born in London, probably about the end of the 15th century, and educated at Oxford. Returning from the university, he settled in the metropolis, and commenced printer, “then esteemed (says wood) a profession fit sor any scholar or ingenious man.” He married the sister of sir Thomas More, with whom, we are told, he was very intimate, and whose writino 8 he strenuously defended. From the title-page of one of his books, he appears to have lived in Cheapside, at the sign of the mermaid. He died in the year 1536; and left two sons, william and John; the sirst of whom became a judge in queen mary’s reign, and the latter a jusksce of peace. This John Rastall, the subject of the present article, was a zealous Papist; but Bale says, that he changed his religion before his death. He wrote, I. 
Natura naturata. 
Pits calls it a copious 
(prolixa) 
and ingenious comedy, describing Europe, a sia, and Afnca j with cuts. avhat sort of a comedy this was, is not easy to conceive. Probably it is a cos mographical description, written in dialogue, and therefore styled a 
comedy. 
2. The pastyme of the people; the cronycles of diverse realmys, and most especially of ihe realm of England, brevely compiled and emprinted in Cheapefyde, at the sign of the mearmaist, next pol sysgate, cz/m 
privilegio, 
fol. 3. 
Ecclesia Johannis Rafi tail, 
1542. Vas one of the prohibited books in the reign 
of 
Henry VIII 4. 
Legum Engficanarum voca· Iuia explicata. 
French and Latin. Lond. 1567, 8vo. And some other works. 
rastadt, a town of Germany, in the circle of suabia and marquisate of Baden, with a handsome castle. 
It is remarkable for a treaty concluded here between the French and imperialists in 1714; and is seated on the river Merg, near the Rhine. E. Long. o. 14. N. Lat. 48. 52. 
rastenburg, a fine city in Prussia, on the gu her, surrounded with a wall, and since 1629 also with a rampart. 
RAT, in zoology. see Mus. 
The following receipt is said to have been found esc • fectual for the deduction of rats. Take of the seeds of stavefacre or lousewort, powdered, more or less as the occasion requires, one part; of oat meal, three parts; rmx them well, and make them up into a paste with ho ney. Lay pieces of it in the holes, and on the places where nuce and rats frequent; and it will effectually kill or rid the place of those kind of vermin by their eating thereof. 
some time ago, the society for encouraging arts pro posed a premium of 50i. for a preparation capable of allurmg or fascinating rats so that they might be taken alive. In consequence of this, a great number of new traps, c. were invented; and the following methods of alluring the rats to a certain place were published. 
One of those most easily and efficaciously practised is the trailing some pieces of their most favourite food, which should be of the kind that has the strongest scent, such as toasted cheese or broiled red herrings, from thc holes or entrances of the closet to their recesses in every part of the house or contiguous building. At the extremities and in different parts of the course of this trailed track, small quantities of meal, or any other kind of their food, should be la; d, to bring the greater number into the tracks, and to encourage them to pursue lt to the place where they are intended to be taken : at that place, when time admits of it, a more plentiful repail is laid, for them, and the trailing repeated for two or three nights. 
Besides this trailing and way baiting, some of the most expert of the rat catchers have a shorter and per haps more effectual method of bringing them together; which is the calling them, by making such a whiffling nolle as resembles their own call; and by this means, with the assistance of the way baits, they call them out of their holes, and lead them to the repast prepared 
sor 
them at the place designed for taking them. But this is much more difficult to be practiscd than the art of trailing; for the learning the exact notes or cries of any kind of beasts or birds, fo as to deceive them, is a peculiar talent which is seldom attained : though some persons have been known who could call together a great number of cats; and there was a man in London who could bring nightmgales, when they were within hearing, about him, and even allure them to perch on his hand, so as to be taken. 
In practising either of those methods, of trailing or calling, great caution must be used by the operator to suppress and prevent the seent of his feet and body from being perceived; which is done by overpowering that seent by others of a stronger nature. In order to this, the feet are to be covered with clothes rubbed over with asafiaetida, or other strong smelling substances;; even oil of rhodium is sometlmes used for this purpose, but sparingly, on account of fits dearness, .though it has a very alluring as .well as disguising effect. If this cau tion of avoiding the scent of the operator’s feet, near the tlack, and in the place where the rats are proposed to be collected, be not properly observed, it will very much obstruct the success of the attempt to take them; for they are very shy of coming where the scent of human feet lies very fresh, as it intimates to their sagaci ous instinct the presence of human creatures, whom they 
