an issand, and every two or three issands become an harbour. On the ends of the principal of these harbours the people have piled up great heaps of stones to serve as signals : “and it is in these (says Mr Bruce) that the large vessels from Cairo to Jidda, equal in ssze to our large 74 gun shipe (but from the cisterns of ma son work built within for holding water, I suppose double their weight), after navigating their portion of the channel in the daytime, come safely and quietly to at four o’clock in the afternoon; and in these little harbours pass the night, to sail into the channel again next morning.” 
The western channel of the Red sea was chosen, m the days of the Ptolemies, for the track of the Indlan and African. These monarchs erected a great number of cities all along the western coast; and notwithstand ing the dangers of the navigation, we do not hear that it was ever abandoned on account of them. 
From the observations made by our author on the navigation of the Red sea, be undertakes to point out a sase passage for large ships to the gulf of suez, so that they may be able to judge of the propriety of their own course themselves, without trusting implicitly to the pilots they meet with, who are often very ignorant of their profession. This sea, according to Mr Bruce, may be divided into four parts, of which the channel ©ccuples two, till near the latltude of 26t or that of Coffair. On the west it is deep water, with many recks; and on the east it is full of issands, as has been already mentioned. Between these issands there are channels and harbours bf deep water, where ships may be protected in any wind; but a pilot is necessary io sailing among these from Mocha to suez, and the voyage besides can be continued only during part of the day. ships bound to suez without the consent of the sheriffe of Mecca, that is, without any intention of selling their cargo at Jidda, or paying custom there, ought to take in their fresh water at Mocha; or it there be any reason against this, a few hours will carry them to Azab or saba on the Abyssinian coast, where they may be plentifully supplied : but it must be remembered, 
“that the people here are 
Galla, 
the most treacherous and villainous wretches on earth.” Here not only water may be procured, but plenty of sheep, goats, with some myrrh, and incense in the proper season— — caution, however, must be used in dealing with the people, as even those of Mocha, who are absolutely necessary to them in their commercial dealings, cannot trust them without surety or liostages. Not many years ago, the surgeon and mate of the Elgin East india man, with several other sailors, were murdered by these savages as they went ashore to purchase myrrh, though they had a letter of safe conduit from the shekh. 
To such as do not want to be known, our author recommends a low black issand on the coast of Arabia, named 
Camaran, 
in latitude 150 30'. It is distinguished by a white house or fortress on the west end of it; where water is to be had in still greater plenty than at Azab; but no provisions, or such only as are very bad, can be procured. If it is necessary not to be seen at 
all on the coast, the issand of Foosht is recommended by our author as having excellent water, with a saint or monk, whose office is to keep the wells clean. This is one of the chain of issands which stretches almost 
across the gulf srom Loheia to Masuah, aad from ac 
tual observation by Mr'bruce, 
is 
sound 
to 
be situated in N. Lat. 150 59' 43". E. Long. 42° 47'. From this to Yambo there is a sase watering-place; and there is an absolute necessity sor having a pilot before you come to Ras Mahomet; because, over the Ælanitic gulf, the mountains of Aucha, and the Cape itself, there is often a thick haze which lasts sor many days together, and a number of ships are lost by mistaking the eastern bay or Ælanitic gulf sor the entrance of the gulf of suez? the former has a ridge of rocks nearly across it. After reaching sheduan, a large issancl, about three leagues farther in a north by west direction, there is a bare rock distinguished by no particular name; but so situated that ships ought not to come within three leagues of it. This rock is to be left to the westward at the distance just mentioned; after passing which you meet with shoals forming a pretty broad channel, with soundings srom 
15 
to 30 fathoms; and again, on standing directly sor Tor, there are two other oval sands with sunk rocks in the channel, between which you are to steer. Tor may be known at a distance by two hills that stand near the water side; which, in clear weather, may be seen six leagues off. Just to the southeast of these is the town and harbour, where there are some palm trees about the houses, the more remal kable, as being the sirst that are seen on the coast. The soundings in the way to Tor harbour are clean and regular; “and, by giving the beacon a small birth on the larboard hand, you may haul in a little to the nortliward, and anchor in five or six fathom.” In spring tides, it is high water at Tor nearly about 12 o’clock : in the middle of the gulf there is no perceptible tide, but at the sides it runs at the rate of more than two knots in the hour. Tor it sels is but a small village, with a convent of monks belonging to those of Mount sinai. It was taken by Don John de Castro, and sortisied soon after its disco very by the Portuguese; but has never since been a place of any consideration; serving now only sora watering place to the ships trading to or srom suez. — From this place there is a distinct view of mounts ho reb and sinai, which appear above and behind the others, with their tops frequently covered with suow in the winter. 
Mr Bruce next proceeds to consider some questions which may be reckoned matters of curiosity rather than anything else. One of these is concerning the level of the water of this sea itsels, which has been supposed several seet above that of the Mediterranean. “To this (says our author) I answer, that the fact has been supposed to be so by antiquity, and alleged as a reason. why ptolemy’s canal was made srom the bottom of thc Heroopolitic gulf rather than brought due north across the isthmus of suez; in which last case it was feared it would submerge a great part of Asia Minor.. But who has ever attempted to verify this by experiment? or who is capable of fettling the difference of levels, amounting, as supposed, to some feet and inches, between two points 120 miles distant from each other, over a desert that has no settled sursace, but is chan ging its height every day? Besides, since all seas are in fact but one, what is it that hinders the Indian ocean to flow to its level? what is it that keeps the Indian ocean up? Till this last branch of the question ls resol ved, I shall take it for granted that 
bo such 
difference 
