qttence artse from thus sounding distinctions 
on 
ratios of time, which it may be said are too nice to be often rightly hit upon : for if a confusion should happen between that of the 
colon 
and 
period, 
there is perhaps fo trifling a difference between the nature of the passages they succeed, as to make a small inaccuracy of no con sequence. And as to the rests of the semicolon and period, it will not be easy to mistake about them, as their, ratio is that of two to one. Add to this the power which the matter and introduction of the sub sequent passages have to rectify any ssight errsr here made, and we shall be fully satisfied, that the pauses as usually explained, with the cadence above described, and a proper knowledge of the language, will convey sufficient information to the understanding of the con structive nature of the passages after which they are found. 
It may be observed, that in natural speech, according to the warmth and agitation of the speaker, the rests are often short and injudicioussy proportioned, and hence that everything thus delivered cannot be so grace full as it might have been from a proper attention to their magnitude and effects. 
Pauses then, though chiefly subjected to the sense, are, as was remarked at the outset, serviceable in beautifying the modulation, c— — since books are often inaccurately printed as to points, and peo ple’s tastes differ some little about their place and va iue, it appears, that, " although in reading great attention should be paid to the stops, yet a greater should be given to the sense, and their corespondent times occasionally lengthened beyond what is usual in common speech which observation contains all that we shall pretend to lay down by way of rule for the management of pauses in the delivery of written language. 

As there are two or three species of writing, which have something singular in them, and with regard to the manner in which they should be read, a few 
particular 
remarks seem necessarily required, we shall con clude this article with laying them before the reader : 
1. 
Of Plays, and such like conversation pieces. Writings of this kind maybe considered as intended for two different purposes; one to unfold subject matter for the exercise of theatric powers; and the other to convey amusement, merely as fable replete with pleasing incidents and characteristic maimers. Hence there appears to be great latitude for the display of a 
confftent 
delivery of these performances : for while, on one hand, a good reader of very inferior talents for mimicry may be heard with a tolerable degree of pleasure; on the other, if any person is qualified to give a higher degree of life and force to the dialogue and characters by delivering them as an actor, he must be fully at liberty to start from the confinement of a chair to a posture and area more suit ed to his abilities; and, if he be not deceived in himself, 
his hearers will be considerable gainers by the change 
The next article is, 
2. 
sermons or other orations, which in likeman ner may be conceived intended for a double purpose. First, as matter for the display of oratorical powers; aiwl, secondly, as persuasive discourses, c. which may be read like any other book. Therefore it appears (for reasons similar to those above) that according as clergymen are possessed of the talents 
of elocution, 
they may consistently either rehearse their 
fermons, in 
the manner of an extemporary harangue, or deliver them in the more humble capacity of one who is content to entertain and instruct his hearers with reading to them his own or some other person’s written discourse. 
T. hat either of these manners of delivery (or a mixture of them), in either osthe cases abovementioned, is agreeable, we find on a careful exa. lination. For this will show us how frequently they run into one another; and that we are so far from thinking such transitions wrong, that, without a particular attention that way, we scarce ever perceive them at all. 
3. 
Poetry is the next and last object of our present remarks. This is a very peculiar kind of writing, and as much different from the language of ordinary discourse as the movements of the dance are from common w..sk ing. ff o ornament and improve whatever is subfervient to the pleasures and amusements of life, is the delight of human nature, we are also pleased with a kind of 
txcefi. 
in anything which has a power to amuse the sail cy, inspire us with enthusiasm, or awaken the soul to 
3 
consesousness of its own importance and dignity. Hence one pleasure, at least, takes its rise, that we feel in con templating the performances of every art; and hence the language", of poetry, consisting of a measured ryth mus, harmonious cadences, and an elevated picturesqne diction, has been studied by the ingenious, and found to have a powerful influence over the human breast 
in 
every age and region. There is such an affinity between this language and music, that they were in the earlier ages never separated; and though modern refinement has in a great measure destroyed this union, yet it 
is 
with some degree of difficulty in rehearsing these divine compositsons we can forget the singing of the muse. 
From these considerations (and some kindred ones mentioned in sect. III in repeating verses, they are ge nerally accompanied with a modulation rather more or namented and musical than is used in any other kind of writing. And accordingly, as there seems to b.c. the greatest propriety in the practice, the rule for this par ticular in the sectsonjust referred to, will allow any latitude in it that can gain the sanction of taste and pleasure. 
Rhymes 
in the lighter and more soothing provinces of poetry are found to have 
a 
good effect; and hence (for reasons like those just suggested) it is certainly absurd to endeavour to smother them by a feeble pronunciation, and running one line precipitately into another, as is often affected to be done by many of our 
mo 
dern readers and speakers. By this method they not only destroy one source of pleasure intended by the com poser (which though not great is nevertheless genuine), but even often supply its place with what is really disa greeable, by making the rhymes, as they are interruptedly perceived, appear accidental blemishes of a different style, arising from an unmeaning recurrence of similar sounds, with regard then to reading verses terminated with rhyme, the common rule, which directs to prö nounce the final words 
full, 
and to distinguish them by a ssight pause even where there is none required by the fen le, seems the most rational, and consequently most worthy, of being followed. see Déclamation, Na& 
ration, and 
Oratory. 
Reading, a town of Berkshire in England, pleasantly seated on the river Kenneth, near the confluence with the 
Thames, it 
had oncâ a siac rich monastery, 
