nations , and on the probability that, in the state of society in which mankind were during the earlier period of the Jewish history, the Jews, by mixing with other nations, would rather bave been themselves converted to idolatry than have converted idolatrous nations to the worship of the true God; we cannot but be satisfied, that even this, however it may at sirst appear, was a benefit, not a dlisadvantage; and in the author of their legiilation wisdom, not caprice. 
But not only in the distinctions of meats, and be tween clean and unclean animals, does the legissator of the Jews appear to have laboured to fix a barrier be tween them and other nations which might preserve them from the contagion of idolatry — we shall not err, perhaps, if we ascnbe many particulars of their worship to this design in the institutor. The heathens had gods who pressded over woods, rivers, mountains, and valleys, and to each of these they offered sacrifices, and. performed other rites of worship in a suitable place. sometimes the greve, sometimes the mountain top, at other times the bank of the river or the brink of the spring, was the sceae of their devotions. But as the •unity of the divine nature was the truth the most ear nestly inculcated on the children of Israel; so in order to impress that truth on their minds with the more powerful efficacy, they were taught to offer their sacri sices and other offerings only in one place, the place chosen by the Lord; and death wa threatened to those who dared to disobey the command. To confirm this idea, one of the prophets intimates, that when idolatry should be abolished, the worship of God should not be confined to Jerusalem, but it would then be lawful to worship him anywhere. 
The whole institutions and observances of the Jewish religion appear to have been designed and happily calculated to impress the minds of the people with veneration and respect for the Deity. All the festivals which either commemorated some gracious difpensation of his providence towards their ancestors, or served as days of thanksgiving sor the constant returns of his goodness to those who celebrated them, and all the other rites designed to fortify them against idolatry, served at the same time to impress their hearts with awful reverence for the God of Jacob. Various other particulars in the institutions of the Jewish economy appear to have been directed solely to tsmt end. Into the inost sacred place, the Holy of Holies, none but the high priest was admitted, and lie only once a year. No five was used in sacrifice but what was taken from the altar. severe punishments were on various occasions inflicted on such as presumed to intermeddle in the service of the sanctuary in a manner contrary to what the law had directed. All the laws respecting the cha'rac ter, the circumstances, and the services, of the priests and the Levites, appear plainly to have a 
similar 
ten clency. 
In compliance with the notions 
of 
Deity which na turally prevailed among a gross and rude people, though •no visible object of worship was granted to the Jews, yet they were allowed in their wanderings through the wilderness to have a tabernacle or portable temple, in which the sovereign of the universe sometimes deigned to display some rays of his glory. Incapable as they were of conceiving aright concerning the spiritual nature 

and the omniprcsence of the Deity, they might 
possibly have thought Jehovah careless and indifferent 
about them, had they been at no time favoured with 
a 
visible demonstration of his presence. 
The sacrisices in use among the Gentiles 
in 
their ' worship of idols were permitted by the Jewish legislator; but he directed them to be offered with views very different from those with which the Gentiles sacri siced to their idols. some of the sacrisices of the Jewish 

ritual were designed to avert the indignation ot thc Deity; some to expiate offences and purify the heart; and all of them to abolish or remove idolatry. lustra tions or ablutions entered likewise into the Jewish ritual; but these were recommended end enjoined by Moses for purposes widely different from those which induced the heathens to place so high a value upon them. The heathens practised them with magical and superstitious ceremonies; but in the Jewish ritual they were intend ed simply for the cleansing away of impurities and pol lutions. 
The theocratical form of government to which the Jews were subject, the rewards which they were sure of receiving, and the punishments which they were equally liable to suffer in the present life, had a powerful effect to remove superstition and preserve them from idolatry, as well as to support all the social virtues among them. They were promised a numerous offspring, a land flowing' with milk and honey, long life, and victory over their enemies, on the condition of their paying a faith sul obedience to the will of their heavenly sovereign; plague, famine, disease, defeats, and death, were threat ened as the punishments to be inflicted on those who violated his laws 5 and these fonctions, it must be allowed, were happily accommodated to the genius of a rude and carnal minded people, attentive only to present objects, and not likely to be influenced by remote and spiritual considerations. 
There were other rites and prohibitions in the mo saic law, which appear to have had but little connexion with religion, morals, or policy. These may be more liable to be objected against, as adding an unnecessary weight to a bmden which, though heavy, might yet have been otherwise born in consideration of the advantages connected with it. Even these, however, may perhaps admit of being viewed in a light in which they shall appear to have been in no way unfavourable to the happiness of those to whom they were enjoined. They appear to have had none of them an immoral tendency; all of them had, in all probability, a tendency to re move or prevent idolatry, or to support, in some way or other, the religious and the civil establishment to which they belonged. 
From these views of the spirit and tendency of the Jewish religion, we may fairly conclude it to have been happily calculated to promote the welfare of society. In comparing it with other religions, it is necessary to reflect on the peculiar purposes sor which it was given; that its two principal objects were to preserve the Jews a separate people, and to guard them against the contagion of the furronnding idolatry, when these things are taken into coniideration, every candid mind acquainted with the history of ancient nations will readily acknowledge that the whole system, though calculated in deed in a peculiar manner for them, was as happily adapted for the purposes for which it had been wisely and gracioussy intended, as it is possible to imagine any 
