common carth worms are of this kind. some of these worms have been divided into two, others into three or four pieces; and some of these pieces, after having passed two or three months without any appearance of life or motion, have then begun to reproduce a head or tail or both. The reproduction of the anus, after such a state of rest, is no long work; a few days do it : but it is otherwise with the head, that does not seem to per form its functions in the divided pieces till about seven months aster the separation' ' is to be observed, that in all tllese operations both on earth and water worms, the hinder part suffers greatly more than the forepart in the cutting; for it always twills itself about a long time, as if actuated by strong convulsions; whereas the head usually crawls away without the appearance of any great uneasiness. 
The reproduction of several parts of lobsters, crabs, c. makes also one of the great curiosities in natural history. That, in lieu ocean organical part of an animal broken off, another shall rise perfectly like it, may seem inconsistent with the modern system of generation, where the animal is supposed to be wholly formed in the egg. Yet lias the matter of fact been well attesled by the sishermen, and even by several virtuosos wlio have taken the point into examination, particularly M. de Reaumur and M. Perrault, whose skill and exactness in things of this nature will hardly be questioned. The legs of lobsters, c. consist each of live articulations : now, when any of the legs happen to break by any accident, as in walking, c. which frequently happens, the fracture is always found to be in a part near the fourth articulation; and what they thus lose is precise ly reproduced sometime afterwards; that is, a part of a leg shoots out, consisting of four articulations, the sirst whereof has two claws as before; so that the loss is entirely repaired. 
If a lobster’s leg be broken off by design at the fourth or fifth articulation, what is thus broken off always comes again; but it is not so if the fracture be made in the silst, second, or third articulation. In those cafes, the reproduction is very rare if things continue as they are. But what is exceedingly surprising is, that they do not; for, upon visiting the lobster maimed in these barren and unhappy articulations, at the end of two or three days, all the other articulations are found broken off to the fourth; and it is fnspected they have per formed the operation on themselves, to make the reproduction of a leg certain. 
The part reproduced is not only perfectly like that retrenched, but also, in a certain space of time, grows equal to it. Hence it is that we frequently see lobsters, which have their two big legs unequal, and that in all proportions. This shows the smaller leg to be a new one. 
A part thus reproduced being broken, there is a second reproduction. The summer, which is the only season of the year when the lobsters eat, is the most favourable time for the reproduction. It is then performed in four or live weeks; whereas it takes up eight or nine months in any other season. The small legs are sometimes reproduced, but more rarely, as well as more slowly, than the great ones : the horns do the same. The experiment is most easily tried on the common crab. see Metaphysics, p.574. note (f); and Phy -- suology, nu 261. 
reptillo, in natural history, a kind of animals denominated from their creeping or advancing on the belly. Or reptiles are a genus of animals and insects, which, instead of feet, rest on one part of the body, while they advance forward with the rest. such aie earthworms, snakes, caterpillars, c. Indeed, most of the class of reptiles have feet; only those very small, and the legs remarkably short in, proportion to the bulk of the body. 
Natulahsts obierve a world of artful contrivance sor the motion of reptiles. Thus, particularly in the earth, wonn, Dr W illis tells us, the whole body is only a chain of annular muscles; or, as Dr Derham says, it is only one continued splral muscle, the orblcular sibres where of being contracted, render each ring narrower and longer than before; by which means it is enabled, like the worm of an augre, to bore its passage into the earth. Its reptsle motion might also be explained by a wire wound on a cylinder, which when dipped off, and one end extended and held fast, will bring the other near to it. so the earthworm having shot out or extended his body (which is with a wreathing), lt takes hold by these small seet lt hath, and fo conti acts the hinder part of its body. Dr Tyson adds, that when the forepart of the body is stretched out, and applied to a plane at a distance, the hind part relaxing and shortening is easily drawn towards it as a centre. 
Its seet are disposed in a quadruple row the whole length of the worm, with which, as with so many hooks, lt sastens down sometimes this and sometimes that part of the body to the plane, and at the same time stretcli es out or drags after it another. 
The creeping of serpents is effected after a somewhat different manner; there being a difference in their structure, in that these last have a campages of bones •articulated together. 
I he body here ls not drawn together, but as lt were complicated; part of it being applied on the rough ground, and the rest ejaculated and shot from it, which being.set on the ground in its turn, brings the other after it. I he spine of the back variously wreathed has the. same effect in leaping, as the joints in the feet of other annuals they make their leaps by means of muscles, and extend the plicae or folds. see Zoology. 
REPUBLIC, or commonwealth, a popular state or government; or a nation where the people have the government in them own hands. see Government, Aristocracy, Democracy, and Monarchy. 
Republic oj Letters, 
a phrase used collectively of the whole body of the studious and learned people. 
REPUDIATION, in the civil law, the act of di vorcing. see Divorce. 
repulsion, in physics, that property of bodies whereby they recede from each other, and, on certain occasions, mutually avoid coming into contact. 
Repulsion, as well as attractlon, has of late been considered as one of the primary qualities of all matter, and has been much used in explaining the phenomena of nature : thus the particles of air, fire, steam, electric fluld, care all sald to have a repulsive power with respect to one another. — That this is the cafe with the air, and vapour of all kinds, is certain; because when they are compressed into a small space,. they expands 
