tÎ0U3 
and ignorant. They were, 
however, 
passionately devoted to their monarch, and whatever concerned him. In 1754, when Louis XV was taken ill at Metz, the whole nation was truly in a kind of despair. The con rier and his horse that brought the news of his recovery to Paris were both almost suffocated by the embraces of the people. 
We have said that the French monarch was despo tic. His power was supported by his army and by a watchful police, having in pay an infinite host of spies and other servants. In France no man was safe. The secrets of private families were searched into. Nothing was unknown to the jealous inquisition of the police. Men were seized by 
letters de cachet 
when they least ex pected it, and their families had no means of diseovering their fate. The sentence of a court of law against a nobleman was usually reversed by the minister. No book was published without the licence of a censor ge neral appointed by the court, and the minister was ac countable to none but the king. No account was given of the expenditure of thc public money. Enormous gratifications and pensions were given as the reward of the most infamous services. The supreme power of the state was usually lodged with a favourite mistress, and she was sometimes a woman taken from public prostitution. This was not indeed the case under Louis XVI but it was nevertheless one of the mis fortunes of his life that lie was far from being absolute in his own family. still, however, with all its faults, the French court was the most splendid and polished in Europe. It was more' the resort of men of talents and literature of every kind, and there they met with more ample protection, than anywhere else. The court was often jealous of their productions, but they met with the most distinguished attention from men of fortune and rank; insomuch that for a century jsast the French have given the law to Europe in all questions of taste, of literature, and of every polite accomplish ment. The gay elegance that prevailed at court dif sused itself through the nation; and amidst much internal misery, gave it to a foreigner the appearance of hap piness, or at least of levity and vanity. 
such as it was, this government had stood for ages, and might have continued, had not a concurrence of causes contributed to its overthrow. The inferior orders of clergy, excluded from all chance of preferment, regarded their superiors with jealousy and envy, and were ready to join the laity of their own rank in any popular commotion. The inferior provincial noblesse beheld with contempt and indignation the vices and the power of the courtiers, and the higher nobility wished to diminish the power of the crown. The practising lawyers, almost entirely excluded from the chance of becoming judges, wished eagerly for a change of affairs, not doubting that their talents and professional skill would render them necessary amidst any alterations that could occur Accordingly, they were the sirst instruments in producing the. revolution, and have been its inost active supporters. The moneyed interest wished ea gerly for the downfall of the ancient nobility. As for the great mass of the common people, they were too ignorant, too superstitiously attached to old establish mlents, and too much depressed, to have any conception of the nature of political liberty, or any hope of obtaining it. we have already stated the leading circumstances 
which led 
to the French revolution (see Franck, n 184, c)); there were other circumstances which contributed in an equal degree both to its commence ment and its progress. 
For 40 years the principles of liberty had been disse minated with eagerness in France by some men of great talents, as Rousseau, Helvetius, and Raynal, to whom the celebrated Montesquieu had led the way. Besides these, there was in France a vast multitude of what were called 
men of letters, 
or persons who gave this account of the manner in which they spent their time. All these were deeply engaged on the side of some kind of political reform. The men of letters in Paris alone are said to have amounted to 20, 000. One of the last acts of the admiiiistration of the archbishop of Thouloufe was, on the yth July 1788, to publish a resolution of the king in council, inviting all his subjects to give him their advice with regard to the state of affairs. This was considered as a concession of an unlimited liberty of the press; and it is scarcely possible to form an idea of the infinite variety of political publications which from that period diffused among the people a diffatissaction with the order of things in which they had hitherto lived. 
The established religion of France had for sometime past been gradually undermined. It had been solemnly assaulted by philosophers in various elaborate performances; and men f wit, among whom Voltaire took the lead, had attacked it with the dangerous weapon of ridicule. The Roman Catholic religion is much exposed in this respect, in consequence of the multitude of false miracles and legendary tales with which its history abounds, without diseriminating betwixt the respectable principles on which it rests, and the superstitions follies by which they had been defaced, the French nation learned to laugh at the whole, and rejected instead of reforming the religion of their fathers. Thus the sirst order in the state had already begun to be regarded as useless, and the minds of men were prepared for important changes. 
The immense population of the city of Paris, amounting to upwards of 800, 000 souls, rendered it an important engine in the hands of the conductors of the revolution. An overgrown capital has always proved dangerous to a government that is or attempts to be despotic, as appears from the history of ancient Babylon and Rome, as well as of modern Constantinople, of London under Charles I. and Paris under several of its kings. 
we cannot here avoid mentioning a physical event, which assisted not a little in producing many of the convulsions attending the revolution, a general searcity of grain, which occurred about that period. On sun day the 13th of July 1788, about nine in the morning, without any eclipse, a dreadful darknefe ’suddenly overspread several parts of France. It was the prelude of such a tempest as is unçxampled in the temperate climates of Europe, wind, rain, hail, and thunder, seemed to contend in impetuosity; but the hail was the great instrument of ruin. Instead of the rich prospects of an early autumn, the face of nature in the space of an hour presented the dreary aspect of universal winter. The soil was converted into a morass, the standing corn beaten into the quagmire, the vines broken to pieces, the fruit trees demolished, and unmelted hail ly ing in heaps like rocks of solid ice. Even the robe t 
