RAY. The Rays (Batoidei) together with the Sharks (Selachoidei) form the suborder Plagiostomata of Cartilaginous fishes, and are divided into six families, as already noticed in Ichthyology, vol. xii. pp. 685, 686.
The first family contains only the Saw-fishes (Pristis), of which five species are known, from tropical and subtropical seas. Although saw-fishes possess all the essential characteristics of the rays proper, they retain the elongate form of the body of sharks, the tail being excessively muscular and the sole organ of locomotion. The “saw” (fig. 1) is a flat    protruding intestines. The
and enormously devel-    teeth proper, with which the
oped prolongation of the    mouth is armed, are exsnout, with an endo-    tremely small and obtuse,
skeleton which consists    and unsuitable for inflicting
of from three to five carti-    wounds or seizing animals,
laginous tubes; these are,    Saw-fishes are abundant in
in fact, merely the rostral    the tropics; in their stomach
processes of the cranial    pieces of intestines and frag-
cartilage and are found    ments of cuttle-fish have
in all rays, though they    been found. They grow to
are commonly much    a large size, specimens with
shorter. The integument    saws 6 feet long and 1 foot
of the saw is hard, covered    broad at the base being of
with shagreen ; and a    common occurrence,
series of strong teeth,    , The rays of the second
sharp in front, and flat    family, Rhinobatidee, bear a
behind, are embedded in    strong resemblance to the
it, in alveolar sockets, on    saw-fishes, but lack the
each side. The saw is a    saw. Their teeth are con-
most formidable weapon    sequently more developed,
of offence, by means of    flat, obtuse, and adapted for
which the fish tears pieces    crushing hard-shelled mar-
of flesh off the body of its    ine animals. There are
victim, or rips open its    about sixteen species, from
abdomen to feed on the    ־ tropical seas.
The third family, Torpedinidae, includes the Electric Rays. The peculiar organ (fig. 2) by which the electricity is produced has been described in vol. xii. p. 650. The fish uses this power voluntarily either to defend itself or to stun or kill the smaller animals on which it feeds. To receive the shock the object must complete the galvanic circuit by communicating with the fish at two distinct points, either directly or through the medium of some conducting body. The electric currents created in these fishes exercise all the other known powers of electricity : they render the needle magnetic, decompose chemical compounds, and emit the spark. The dorsal surface of the electric organ is positive, the ventral negative. Shocks accidentally given to persons are severely felt, and, if proceeding from a large healthy fish, will temporarily paralyse the arms of a strong man. The species of the genus Torpedo, six or seven in number, are distributed over the coasts of the Atlantic and Indian Ocean, and two reach northwards to the coasts of Great Britain (T. marmorata and T. hebetcms). They are said to attain to a weight of from 80 to 100 lb, but fortunately such gigantic specimens are scarce, and prefer sandy ground at some distance from the shore, where they are not disturbed by the violent agitation of the surface-water. Other genera, comprising species of smaller size, inhabit different parts of the tropical and subtropical seas. All the rays of this family have, like electric fishes generally, a smooth and naked body.
The fourth family, Raiidee, comprises the Skates and Rays proper, or Raia. More than thirty species are known, chiefly from the temperate seas of both hemispheres, but much more numerously from the northern than the southern. A few species descend to a depth of nearly 600 fathoms, without, however, essentially differing from their surface congeners. Rays, as is sufficiently indicated by the shape of their body, are bottom-fishes, living on flat sandy ground, generally at no great distance from the coast or the surface. They lead a sedentary life, progressing, like the flat-fishes, by an undulatory motion of the greatly extended pectoral fins, the thin slender tail having entirely lost the function of an organ of locomotion, and acting merely as a rudder. They are carnivorous and feed exclusively on molluscs, crustaceans, and fishes. Some of the species possess a much larger and more pointed snout than the others, and are popularly distinguished as “skates.” The following are known as inhabitants of the British seas :—(a) Shortsnouted species: (1) the Thornback (R. clavatd), (2) the Homelyn Ray (R. maculated), (3) the Starry Ray (R. radiata), (4) the Sandy Ray (R. circulars); (b) Long-snouted species, or Skates: (5) the Common Skate (R. batis), (6) the Flapper Skate (R. macrorhynchus), (7) the Burton Skate (R. marginata), (8) and (9) the Shagreen Skates (R. vomer and R. fullemica). A deep-sea species (R. hyper-borea) has recently been discovered near the Faroe Islands at 600 fathoms. Most of the skates and rays are eaten, except during the breeding season ; and even the young of the former are esteemed as food. The skates attain to a much larger size than the rays, viz., to a width of 6 feet and a weight of 400 and 500 R>.
The members of the fifth family, Trygonidae or Sting-rays, are distinguished from the rays proper by having the vertical fins replaced by a strong spine attached to the upper side of the tail. Some forty species are known, which inhabit tropical more than temperate seas. The spine is barbed on the sides and is a most effective weapon of defence ; by lashing the tail in every direction the sting-rays can inflict dangerous or at least extremely painful wounds. The danger arises from the lacerated nature of the wound as well as from the poisonous property of the mucus inoculated. Generally only one or two spines are developed. Sting-rays attain to about the same size as the skates and are eaten oil the coasts of the Mediterranean and elsewhere. One species (Trygon pastinaca) is not rarely found in the North Atlantic and extends northwards to the coasts of Ireland, England, and Norway.
