and such cells are asexually produced spores. In the latter case the reproductive organs are such that they do not singly give rise to cells capable, each by itself, of developing into a new organism. These are sexual reproductive organs. In some instances the sexual organ does not give rise to reproductive cells at all until it has received into itself more or less of the protoplasmic contents of another different, at least physiologically, sexual organ; and the cells which it then produces are capable, each by itself, of developing into a new organism. In others the sexual organ produces reproductive cells without any such previous fusion of protoplasm, but the cells thus produced are incapable, each by itself, of developing into a new organism. Such cells are sexual reproductive cells. It is only by the fusion of two such cells, physiologically different, that a reproductive cell is formed which is capable of developing into a new organism. The fusion either of the protoplasmic contents of two different sexual organs or of two different sexual cells constitutes the sexual process. It may take place, according to circumstances, either within the organs or, in those cases in which sexual cells are produced and are set free, externally to them. The resulting cells are sexually produced spores.
In some exceptional cases the normal production, sexual or asexual, of spores does not take place, but the new organism is developed vegetatively from the parent. When the sexual y production of spores is suppressed, the case is one of apogamy ;
when the asexual production of spores is suppressed, the case is one r. of apospory. The following are instances of apogamy : in certain Ferns (Ptcris cretica, Aspidium falcatum) the prothallium produces no sexual organs, but the fern-plant rises vegetatively as a bud upon it. Apospory lias been observed to occur in Mosses and in some Ferns (Athyrium Filix-foemina, Polystichum angulare): in Mosses a new plant may be developed vegetatively from the tissue of the sporogonium ; in Athyrium the sporangium, instead of producing spores, develops into a fern-prothallium. In the Characeae apospory appears to be the rule. Apogamy and apospory will be more fully discussed subsequently in connexion with the subject of alternation of generations.
Asexual Reproduction.—Reproduction by means of asexually produced spores is common to nearly all families of plants. It is wanting, among the Algae, in the Conjugatae, the Fucaceae, and the Characeae; among the Fungi, in a few Peronsporeae (Pythiurn vexans, Arto-trogus), in Ancylistes Closterii, in Aplanes Braunii, among the Saprolegnieae; and, among the Ascomycetes, in Ere-mascus, Sordaria (Hypocopra), Ascobolus furfuraceus, Pyronema (Peziza) conjluens, Gynmoascus, the Collemaceae, and most other Lichen-Fungi.
In the simplest case the spore is developed from a single cell of the plant, which surrounds itself with the characteristic thick wall. This occurs only in plants of low organization; Nostoc and Bacillus are examples of it.
In other cases the contents of the cell undergo division, each portion of the protoplasm constituting a spore. Examples of this are afforded, among unicellular plants, by Yeast and Protococcus, and in multicellular plants by the Confervaceae, the Ulvaceae, and some Florideae.
In this case each cell, the protoplasm of which divides to form spores, may be regarded as a rudimentary reproductive organ of the nature of a sporangium. In more highly organized plants special organs are differentiated for the production of spores. In the majority of cases the special organ is a sporangium, that is, a hollow capsule iu the interior of which the spores are developed. In the Thallophytes the sporangium is a single cell. In the Muscineai it is a multicellular capsule; in Riccia, in which the structure of the capsule is simple, the whole of the internal cells give rise by division to spores; in other Liverworts, and in the Mosses, in which the structure of the capsule becomes progressively more and more complex, a portion only of the internal cells give rise to spores. In
the Ferns, Equisetacem, and Lycopodiacese the sporangium is multicellular, but simple in structure. This is true also in the llhizocarpaj and in the Ligulatee (Selaginella, Isoetes), but in these plants there is this peculiarity that there are sporangia of two kinds,—some, namely, which produce one, or a few, large spores, macrospores, and are hence termed macrosporangia, and others which give rise to a large number of small spores, microspores, and are hence termed microsporangia. The Phanerogams also bear two kinds of sporangia, which have received special names :— the macrosporangium, which produces only one mature spore, is termed the ovule; the microsporangium, which produces a large number of microspores, is termed the pollen-sac. In some cases among the Fungi the spores are : not produced in the interior of a sporangium, but are1  formed by abstraction. This occurs in some Mucorini, 1  such as Chaetocladium, in the Ustilagineae, the Entomoph-' thorem, the Peronosporem, the Ascomycetes, the Rusts (Uredine<e), and the Basidiomycetes.
These asexually produced reproductive cells are com monly spoken of simply as spores, but in many cases some addition has been made to the word, or an altogether different name is applied to them, in order to mark some peculiarity in their mode of origin, to indicate their order of development, or to assign them without periphrasis to a particular group of plants. Thus, as has been mentioned, zoospores are motile spores unprovided, for a time at least, with a cell-wall; stylospores are spores which are developed, not in sporangia, but by abstriction as mentioned above; tetraspores is the name given to the spores of the Floride® to denote the fact that four spores are produced by the division of the mother-cell. The uredospores of the Uredinese are those which are produced during the summer, whereas the teleutospores of these plants are those which are formed in the autumn, at the end of the period of growth. It was the custom, at one time, to speak of the spores of Fungi as conidia; and at the present time the macrospores and the microspores of Phanerogams are better known as embryo-sacs and pollen-grains l’espectively.
The organs which give rise to the asexually produced spores are usually not confined to a particular part of the plant in the Thallophytes. Instances of this do, however, occur among the Ascomycetous Fungi—namely, in the Pyrenomycetes. Here the production of the stylospores takes place in definite receptacles known as pycnidia. In the vascular plants (Pteridophyta, Phanerogams), the development of sporangia, speaking generally, is confined to the leaves. In many of the Pteridophyta the sporan-giferous leaves do not differ in appearance from the foliage-leaves; but in other cases they undergo considerable modification, as in the Equisetacem, Marsiliacese, some species of Lycopodium and Selaginella, and notably in the Phanerogams. In the Phanerogams the modification is so great that the sporangiferous leaves have received special names; those which bear the microsporangia (pollen-sacs) are termed the stamens, and those which bear the macrosporangia (ovules) are termed the carpels. When the sporangiferous leaves are thus modified they are usually aggregated together, and such an aggregate of sporangiferous leaves constitutes a flower.
Sexual Reproduction.—In nearly all classes of plants above the Protophyta spores are formed by a sexual process; and in those in which no such process can be detected its absence is due, not, as in the Protophyta, to the fact that sexuality has not yet been developed, but to its gradual disappearance. The phenomena of sexual reproduction will be most intelligibly stated by tracing them in the different main divisions of the Vegetable Kingdom—the Algae, the Fungi, the Arcliegoniata, and the Phanerogams.
