(Paris, 1864), Les Vierges de Raphaël (Paris, 1878), and Raphaël, Peintre de Portraits (Paris, 1880) ; Grimm, Das Leben Raphaels von Urbino, Berlin, 1872 (intended specially to point out the errors of Vasari and Passavant, and not written in a very fair spirit) ; Gher-ardi, Della Vita di Raffaello, Urbino, 1874 ; Springer, Raffael und Michelangelo, Leipsic, 1878 ; Perkins, Raphael and Michelangelo, Boston, 1878 ; Dohme, Kunst und Künstler des Mittelalters, Leipsic, 1878 (vol. ii. of this valuable work, with many illustrations, is devoted entirely to Raphael and Michelangelo) ; Alippi, 11 Raffaello, Urbino, 1880 ; Clément, Michelange et Raphaël, 5th ed. (improved), Paris, 1881 ; Eug. Müntz, Raphaël, sa Vie, son Œuvre, &c., Paris, 1881 (this is on the whole the best single work on Raphael, both from its text and its numerous well-chosen illustrations) ; Passavant, Rafael und sein Vater, Leipsic, 1839-58 (a valuable book, especially for its list of Raphael’s works ; a new edition translated by Guasti into Italian was published at Florence in 1882, but, though printed so recently, this edition is in no way superior to the French one of Lacroix, Paris, 1860, which, however, is a great advance on the original German text) ; Crowe and Cavalcaselle, Life and Works of Raphael, London, 1882-85; Eug. Miintz, Les Historiens et les Critiques de Raphaël, Paris, 1883 (contains a good bibliography of the subject). The student of Raphael owes a special debt of gratitude for the recent labours of MM. Miintz, Gruyer, and Geymüller.
Reproductions of Raphael's Works.—From the time of Raimondi downwards no painter’s works have been so frequently engraved. The Calcografia Camerale (now called Regia) of Rome possesses an enormous number of copper-plates of his pictures by a great many good (and bad) engravers of this and the last century. Electrotypes of the old coppers are still worked, and are published by the Stamperia at very moderate prices ; in the catalogue Nos. 736 to 894 are the works of Raphael, including several books of engravings containing whole sets, such as the Vatican loggie, &c. A very complete collection of photographs from these and other engravings is published by Gutbier and Lübke, Rafael’s Werke, sämmt-liche Tafelbilder und Fresken, Dresden, 188182־, in three large volumes, divided into classes,—pictures of the Madonna, frescos, stanze of the Vatican, tapestry cartoons, &c. The descriptive text and life of Raphael are by Lübke. The Malcolm, Oxford, British Museum, Lille, Louvre, Dresden, and other collections of Raphael’s drawings have mostly been published in photographic facsimile, and an enormous number of illustrated monographs on single pictures exists. Braun’s autotypes of the stanze and Farnesina frescos are especially good.    (J. H. M.)
RAPIN, Paul de (1661-1725), sieur of Thoyras, French historian, was the son of Jacques de Rapin, avocat at Castres (Tarn), where he was born on 25th March 1661. He was educated at the Protestant academy of Saumur, and in 1679 he became an advocate, but soon afterwards entered the army. The revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685 and the death of his father, which happened two months afterwards, led him to come to England; but, unable to find employment there, he crossed to Holland and enlisted in the company of French volunteers at Utrecht commanded by Daniel de Rapin, his cousin-german. He accompanied the prince of Orange to England in 1688, and the following year Lord Kingston made him ensign in his regiment, with which he proceeded to Ireland. He took part in the siege of Carrickfergus and the battle of the Boyne, and was shot through the shoulder at the battle of Limerick. Soon afterwards he was promoted captain; but in 1693 he resigned in order to become tutor to the earl of Portland’s son. His next change was to return to his family, which he had settled at The Hague, and there he continued some years. But, as he found his family increase, he resolved to retire to a more economical residence, and accordingly removed in 1707 to Wesel, where he commenced his great work L·Histoire d'Angleterre.    Though he was of a strong con
stitution, the seventeen years’ application entirely ruined his health. He died in 1725.
Rapin was also the author of a Dissertation sur les Whigs et les Torys, 1717. L'Histoire d’Angleterre, embracing the period from the invasion of the Romans to the death of Charles L, was printed at The Hague in 1724 in 8 vols. It was translated into English, and improved with notes, by Tindal, in 2 vols, folio, 1725-31. Although the work of a foreigner, it is deservedly esteemed as one of the fullest and most impartial collections of English political transactions extant.
RASGRAD or Hesargrad, a town of Bulgaria, with a station about 2 miles distant on the Varna and Rustchuk
Railway, is situated on the Byaly Lorn, 970 feet above sea-level. It has increased in population during the last fifty years from 3000 to 10,000 inhabitants. In 1810 it was the scene of the defeat of the Turks by the Russians.
RASHBA (רשב׳׳א) stands for three rabbins of various ages and various countries.
1.    R. Shime'on Ben El'azar was a Mishnic teacher of the 2d century.
2.    Rabbenu Shimshon Ben Abraham of Sens wrote commentaries on various Mishnic treatises (see Mishnah, vol. xvi. p. 506).
3.    R. Shelomoh Ben Abraham (or Ben [Ibn] Ad-dereth) was a disciple of Nachmanides, upon whom his master’s mantle had fallen (see Ramban). He became chief rabbi of Barcelona. Here so many disciples from the neighbouring provinces flocked to him as to excite emulation among the Jews in the capital of Castile, who thereupon appointed the German Rabbi Asher b. Yehiel (Rosh). At the same time religious questions poured in upon him from all Israel, so that it is a marvel how he could go through his mere clerical work.
His works extend over the whole Talmud, although not all of them are printed. But thousands of his Responsa have been printed, while many others lie in MS. at Cambridge (Add. 500). Of his other works, the enumeration of which would occupy columns, mention can be made only of his explanations of the Agadoth of the Babylonian Talmud, containing polemic against both Christians and Moslems (MS., Univ. Camb., Add. 1567, 1). On his part in the Maimonidean controversy see Schiller-Szinessy, Catalogue, i. 187 sq.    (S. M. S.-S.)
RASHBAM. Rabbenu Shemuel Ben Meer, commonly called, from his title and the initials of his own and his father’s names, Rashbam, was born at Rameru (Ramerupt near Troyes, in France) about 1080. He was almost the greatest Talmudist of his time, the only two excelling him till 1105 being Rashi and later on his own younger brother, Rabbenu Ya'akob, better known as Rabbenu Tham. In Bible criticism and exegesis, however, he excelled all the men of the 11th and 12th centuries, even if we include R. Menahem b. Helbo, R. Yoseph Bekhor Shor, and R. Yoseph Kara of the Franco-Ashkenazic school, and Abraham Ibn 'Ezra of the Sepharadic school. Rashbam was the son of Yokhebed, second daughter of Rashi (q.v.), and of Rabbenu Meir of Rameru (b. Shemuel). He sue-ceeded his grandfather Rashi as head of the Rabbinical college, and probably also of the congregation, of Troyes. Later, however, we meet him at other places, e.g., Caen, Loudun. He died about 1160.
Of his works the following are known. (1) Commentaries on the Bible: (a) his commentary on the Pentateuch, uncritically edited several times (ed. princeps, Berlin, 1705), and critically and most ably for the first time by Rosin of Breslau (1881, 8vo); (b) commentaries on most of the other books of the Bible, the greater part of which are now lost, but the existence of which is in early times fully testified to. Those on Ecclesiastes and Canticles@@1 were published by Dr Jellinek at Leipsic (1855, 8vo); specimens of both books have been translated into English by Dr Ginsburg (Song of Songs, London, 1857, and Coheleth, London, 1861).    (2) Com-
mentaries on the Babylonian Talmud ; of these we now possess only his supplements on Pesahim (leaves 99b-121b), Baba Bathrd (leaves 29a-176b), and Makkoth (leaves 19b sq. ; see the so-called
Rashi on the Riph, in the Mishnah, iii. 5, catchword ¡ועל הזק). Commentaries on five other treatises are distinctly referred to by old authorities,@@2 but Rashi’s commentaries so thoroughly eclipsed all those written before and after him that none of them had a chance of surviving, except in the shape of a supplement. (3) Additamenta or Tosaphoth ; see Rabbinovicz (variae lectiones), ii.,
@@@1    The present writer cannot share the opinion of those who, because of the Agadic explanations with which that commentary abounds, call Rashbam’s authorship in question. Ibn ’Ezra himself, who was sober thinker enough, is compelled in Canticles to resort to the Rabbinic explanation,—a proceeding and a method in which every modern commentator must take refuge, unless he wishes to explain the book as a merely profane one.
@@@2    See Berliner Magazin, &c., vii. 186, and Or Zarua, in several places (comp. Magazin, ii. p. 100).
