sected himself. The other Lizards mentioned by him are the common Lizards (σαύρα), the common Seps (χαλκίς or ζιγνίς), and the Gecko (άσ־καλαβωτης or κορΒνλος). Of Snakes (of which he generally speaks as οφίζ) he knew the Yipers («fyi9 or εχιδνα), the common Snake (v8po<;), and the Blindworm (τνφλίνης οφις), which he regards as a Snake; he further mentions the Egyptian Cobra and Dragons (δράκων)—North-African Serpents of fabulous size. Of Chelonians he describes in a perfectly recognizable manner Land Tortoises (χελώνη), Freshwater Turtles (έμνς), and Marine Turtles (χελώνη η θαλαττία).
Passing over eighteen centuries we find the knowledge of Reptiles to have remained as stationary as other branches of natural history, perhaps even more so. The Reptile fauna of Europe was not extensive enough to attract the energy of a Belon or Rondelet; popular prejudice and the difficulty of preserving these animals deterred from their study; nor was the mind of man sufficiently educated not to give implicit credence to the fabulous tales with which every account of Reptiles in the 15th and 16th centuries was replete. The art of healing, however, was developing into a science based upon rational principles, and consequently not only those Reptiles which formed part of the materia medica but also the venomous Snakes became objects of study to the physician. Snakes, and especially the Viper, were treated of in distinct divisions of general works, or in separate monographs. It is true that these treatises were written less with the view of elucidating the natural history of the animals than with that of describing their poisonous nature and indicating the manner in which they should be used as medicaments, the majority of the writers being ignorant of the structure of the venom-apparatus, and of the distinction between non-venomous and venomous Snakes.
Nothing can show more clearly the small advance made by herpetology in this long post-Aristotelian period than a glance at the celebrated work, De Differentiis Animalium Libri decern (Paris, 1552), by Edward Wotton (1492-1555). Wotton treats of the Reptiles which he designates as Quadrupedes oviparx et Serpentes in the sixth book of his work. They form the second division of the Quadrupedes qux sanguinem habent, and are subdivided in the following “ genera ” :—
Crocodilus etscincus (cap. cv.); Testudinum genera (cvi.); Ran-arum genera (cvii.); Lacertx (cviii.); Salamandra et seps quad-rupee (cix.); Stellio (cx.); Chamxleo (cxi.) ; Serpentes (cxii.), a general account, the following being different kinds of Serpents : —Hydrus et alii quidam serpentes aquatiles (cxiii.); Serpentes terrestres et primo aspidum genera (cxiv.); Vipera, dipsas, cerastes, et hammodytes (cxv.); Hxmorrlius, sepedon, seps, cenchris, et cenchrites (cxvi.); Basiliscus et alii quidam serpentes quorum venenum remedio caret (cxvii.); Draco, amphishxna, et alii quidam serpentes quorum morsus minus affert periculi (cxviii.).
As regards the treatment of the subject, Wotton’s work might with propriety be termed “Aristoteles redivivus.” The plan is the same, and the observations of the Greek naturalist are faithfully, sometimes literally, reproduced. It is surprising that even the Reptiles of his native country were most imperfectly known to the author.
A new impetus for the cultivation of the study of natural history was given through the observations and writings of travellers in India, Africa, and America. With the enlargement of geographical knowledge that of Reptiles was also advanced, as is sufficiently apparent from the large encyclopaedic works of Gesner, Aldrovandi, and Johnston. The last-named author especially, who published the various portions of his natural history in the middle of the 17th century, was able to embody in his compilations notices of numerous Reptiles observed by Francisco Hernandez in Mexico and by Marcgrave and Piso in Brazil. As the author had no definite idea of the Ray-Linnsean term “ species,” it is not possible to give the exact number of Reptiles mentioned in his work. But it may be estimated at about fifty, not including some marine fishes and fabulous creatures. He figures (or rather reproduces the figures of) about forty,—some species being represented by several figures.
2. Linnxan Period : Formation of a Class Amphibia.— Within the century which succeeded these compilatory works (1650-1750) fall the labours which prepared the wr ay for and exerted the greatest influence on Ray and Linnaeus. Although original researches in the field ol herpetology were limited in extent and in number, the authors had freed themselves from the purely literary oi scholastic tendency. Men were no longer satisfied wit! reproducing and commenting on the writings of their predecessors ; the pen was superseded by the eye, the micro scope, and the knife, and statements were tested by experiment. This spirit of the age manifested itself, sc far as the Reptiles are concerned, in Chara’s and Redi’s admirable observations on the Yiper, in Major’s and Val lisnieri’s detailed accounts of the anatomy of the Chamte leon, in the researches of Jacob.eus into the metamor phoses of the Batrachians and the structure of Lizards, ir Dufay’s history of the development of the Salamander (foi Batrachians are invariably associated with Reptiles proper) in Tyson’s description of the anatomy of the Rattlesnake <fec. The natural history collections formed by institution! and wealthy individuals now contained not merely skin! of Crocodiles or Serpents stuffed and transformed into i shape to correspond with the fabulous descriptions of tin ancient dragons; but, with the discovery of alcohol as i means of preserving animals, Reptiles entire or dissectec were exhibited for study; and no opportunity was lost o obtaining them from travellers or residents in foreigr countries. Fossils also were now acknowledged to be re mains of animals which had lived before the flood, anc some of them were recognized as those of Reptiles.
The contributions to a positive knowledge of the anima kingdom became so numerous as to render the need of £ methodical arrangement of the abundance of new facts more and more pressing. Of the two principal systematic attempts made in this period the first ranks as one of the most remarkable steps of the progress of natural history whilst the second can only be designated as a signal failure, which ought to have been a warning to all those who in aftei years classified animals in what is called an “artificial system.” As the latter attempt, originating with Klein (1685-1759), did not exercise any further influence on herpetology, it will be sufficient to have merely mentioned it. John Ray (1628-1705) had recognized the necessity of introducing exact definitions for the several categories into which the animals had to be divided, and he maintained that these categories ought to be characterized by the structure of animals, and that all zoological knowledge had to start from the “ species ” as its basis. His definition of Reptiles as “ animalia sanguinea pulmofie respirantia cor unico tantum ventriculo instructum habentia ovipara ” fixed the class in a manner which was adopted by the naturalists of the succeeding hundred and fifty years. Nevertheless, Ray was not a herpetologist; he never made these animals his special study, as is evident from the way in which he subdivides the class, as well as from his imperfect treatment of the species. His knowledge of Reptiles is chiefly derived from the researches of others, from whose accounts, however, everything not based upon reliable demonstration is critically excluded. He begins with a chapter treating of Frogs (Dana, with two species), Toads (Bufo, with one species), and Tortoises@@1
@@@1 In associating Tortoises with Toads Ray could not disengage himself from the general popular view as to the nature of these animals, which found expression in the German Schildkröte (“ Shield-toad ”).
