the ultimate rules of conduct, and the coincidence of the two is maintained on the ground of the joys of knowledge. Knowledge has its natural consummation in the knowledge of God ; man’s knowledge of God is at the same time the love and gratitude which he, as representative of the creatures and mediator between them and God, continually offers to the divine majesty. The fact that self-love and the love of God are at present often in conflict is traced by Raymond to the fall of the first human pair ; and this gives him occasion to deduce the doctrine of the incarnation, almost in the words of Anselm’s Cur Deus homo.
RAYNAL, Guillaume Thomas François (1713-1796), was born on 12th April 1713 in the province of Rouergue, and was educated at Pézenas by the Jesuits. He took orders, and, going to Paris, did parish work ; but he left the priesthood (being indeed deprived for misconduct) and betaking himself to literature soon became one of the minor members of the philosophe coterie. He did not a little journalism and bookmaking of divers kinds ; but his name would be entirely forgotten were it not for the Histoire philosophique et politique des Établissements et du Commerce des Européens dans les Deux Indes. This book is not, and indeed was not in its own day, of any substantive value as a book of reference on its nominal subject ; but it exercised considerable influence : it was exceedingly characteristic of the period and society which produced it, and passages of it are still worth reading. The secret of its merits and its faults is to be found in the manner of its composition. Raynal himself wrote but a small part of it, and he took not the slightest pains to make it a homogeneous work. But he borrowed from books and he begged from his own friends all manner of diatribes against superstition and tyranny, often illustrated by lively anecdotes and eloquent tirades. Grimm assigns a full third of the book to Diderot, which is probably an exaggeration, but that Diderot had a great hand in it no judge of style can doubt. It was published in 1772, and brought the author many compliments, even from men like Gibbon, who should have known better. A new edition in 1780 was even bolder. It was condemned and burned (29th May 1781), and the author had to fly the country. He returned just before the Revolution, but having apparently a natural tendency to opposition he became a strong Royalist. He died on 6th March 1796.
No other work of Raynal’s deserves notice here. The best account in English of the Histoire des Indes will be found in Mr John Morley’s Diderot, vol. ii. chap. xv.
RAZORBILL or Razor-billed Auk, known also on many parts of the British coasts as the Marrot, Murre, Scout, Tinker, or Willock—names which it, however, shares with the Guillemot (vol. xi. p. 262), and to some extent with the Puffin (see above, p. 101)—a common sea-bird of the Northern Atlantic,@@1 resorting in vast numbers to certain stations on rocky cliffs for the purpose of breeding, and, its object being accomplished, returning to deeper waters for the rest of the year. It is the Alca tor da of Linnæus @@2  and most modern authors, congeneric with the Gare-fowl (vol. x. p. 78), if not with the true Guillemots, between which two forms it is intermediate—differing from the former in its small size and retaining the power of flight,
@@@1    Schlegel {Mus. des Pays-Bas, Urinatores, p. 14) records an example from Japan ; but this must be in error.
@@@2    The word Alca is simply the Latinized form of this bird’s common Teutonic name, Aik, of which Auk is the English modification. It must therefore be held to be the type of the Linnsean genus Alca, though some systematists on indefensible grounds have removed it thence, making it the sole member of a genus named by Leach, after Aldrovandus (Ornithologia, bk. xix. chap, xlix.), Utamania—an extraordinary word, that seems to have originated in some mistake from the no less extraordinary Vuttamaria, given by Belon (Observations, i. c. xi.) as the Cretan name of some diving bird, which certainly could not have been the present species.
which that presumably extinct species has lost, and from the latter in its peculiarly-shaped bill, which is vertically enlarged, compressed, and deeply furrowed, as well as in its elongated, wedge-shaped tail. A fine white line, running on each side from the base of the culmen to the eye, is in the adult bird in breeding-apparel (with a few very rare exceptions) a further obvious characteristic. Otherwise the appearance of all these birds may be briefly described in the same words—head, bi’east, and upper parts generally of a deep glossy black, and the lower parts and tip of the secondaries of a pure white, while the various changes of plumage dependent on age or season are alike in all. In habits the Razorbill closely agrees with the true Guillemots, laying its single egg (which is not, however, subject to the same amazing variety of coloration that is pre-eminently the Guillemot’s own) on the ledges of the cliffs to which it repairs in the breeding-season, but it is said then as a rule to occupy higher elevations, and when not breeding to keep further out to sea. On the east side of the Atlantic the Razorbill has its stations on convenient parts of the coast from the North Cape to Britanny, besides several in the Baltic, while in winter it passes much further to the southward, and is sometimes numerous in the Bay of Gibraltar, occasionally entering the Mediterranean but apparently never extending to the eastward of Sicily or Malta. On the west side of the Atlantic it breeds from 70° N. lat. on the eastern shore of Baffin’s Bay to Cape Farewell, and again on the coast of America from Labrador and Newfoundland to the Bay of Fundy, while in winter it reaches Long Island, (a. n.)
RAZZI, Gianantonio. See Soddoma.
RÉ, Isle of, a long, low island 3 miles off the coast of the French department of Charente Inférieure, runs south-east and north-west with a breadth of about 3 miles and a length of 18£ miles. The north-west point (Pointe des Baleines) has a lighthouse of the first class. The Pertuis Breton separates the island from the coast of La Vendée to the north, and the Pertuis d’Antioche from the Isle of Oléron to the south. With a surface of 18,259 acres, the Isle of Ré has 15,370 inhabitants, whose chief source of income is the salt marshes, producing annually 31,500 tons of salt. The island has also a vineyard and corn lands, and boasts of the excellence of its figs, pears, and cream. Apart from the orchards it is now woodless, though once covered with forests. Oysters are successfully cultivated, the annual supply of these molluscs being 35,000,000. The coast facing the Atlantic is rocky and inhospitable, but there are numerous harbours on the landward side. The island seems once to have been united to the continent, with which it is still connected by a line of sunken rocks ; its existence is not mentioned before the 8th century. Tradition says that the city of Antioche on the west coast was destroyed by the Atlantic storms, which still constantly threaten to cut the island in two at the isthmus (only 230 feet wide) formed by the gulf called Fier d’Ars. There are two cantons—St Martin and Ars-en-Ré—in the arrondissement of La Rochelle. St Martin, with a secure harbour, was fortified by Vauban, and is the depot for convicts on their way to New Caledonia.
READE, Charles (1814-1884), holds a high and distinctive place among the English novelists of the third quarter of the 19th century. The son of an Oxfordshire squire, he was born at Ipsden in 1814, and was educated for the bar. He entered Magdalen College, Oxford, proceeded B.A. in 1835, with a third class in classics, was elected Vinerian Reader in 1842, and was called to the bar (Lincoln’s Inn) in 1843. It was comparatively late in his life that he made his first appearance as an author, but he showed at once that he had subjected himself to a laborious apprenticeship to the study of life and literature.
