R was written in Greek originally as P, following the Phoenician form ; sometimes, however, a triangle takes the place of the semicircle ; not unfrequently also a short stroke appears where we have the lower limb on the right hand ; the reason of this addition is not plain : it can hardly have been a diacritical mark to distinguish R from P (as G from C at Rome) because the latter symbol in Greece always kept its two vertical lines (Γ), the curved line (P) appearing first in the Roman alphabet.
The sounds denoted by the same symbol r differ con-siderably. First, there is the true consonantal r—our English r in reed, &c.—produced by raising the tip only of the tongue towards the front palate ; the voice escapes by this aperture, the side passages between the tongue and the palate being closed ; the mechanism, therefore, is just the opposite to that which produces I (see letter L). Secondly, there is the vowel r ; this is due to the space between the tip of the tongue and the palate being suffi-ciently great to allow the voice to escape without any friction ; the difference between this and consonantal r is parallel to that between u and w, or between i and y. This vowel-sound, though not heard regularly in any modern language, is not unfrequent in several in certain combina-tions; for example, it is quite possible to articulate “father” as “fath-r,” where the r alone forms a syllable and is there-fore vocalic. This vowel-sound was a regular sound in Sans-krit, and was probably also heard in the parent language ; but in the derived languages (except Sanskrit) it became consonantal r with an independent vowel preceding or following; thus a presumed original “krd” ( = heart), where r denotes the vocalic r, gave in Sanskrit “hrd,” in Greek κραδ-ίη, in Latin “ cor(d).” Thirdly, r may denote a trill,—that is to say, a sound produced by the vibration of the tongue when laid loosely against the palate and set in motion by a strong current of breath or voice. When the point of the tongue is laid loosely in this way against the palate just behind the gums and made to trill as voice passes over it, we hear the Scotch and the French r, each of which is a trill, not a consonantal r. The same sound, but unvoiced, is heard in the French “ théâtre,” &c., and is also the Welsh rh. A similar trill at the back part of the palate gives the Northumbrian “burr.”
RAAB (Hungarian Györ), the capital of a Hungarian province of the same name, lies at the influx of the Raab into a branch of the Danube, 70 miles to the south-east of Vienna. It is a well-built town, with a pleasant pro-menade laid out on the site of the old fortifications, and is the seat of a Roman Catholic bishop. The cathe-dral dates from the 12th century, but has recently been modernized ; the bishop’s palace is an imposing castellated edifice, with dungeons constructed by the Turks. The town possesses several other churches, two of which belong to the Protestants and one to the Greek Church, besides convents, schools, and an academy of jurisprudence. The theatre, on an island formed by the Danube and the Raab, is also a handsome building. The inhabitants, who num-bered 20,980 in 1880, manufacture cloth and tobacco and carry on a considerable trade in grain and horses.
Raab occupies the site of the Roman Arabona, and by the 10th cen-tury had become a place of some importance. In 1594 it fell into the hands of the Turks, who, however, retained possession of it for four years only. In 1809 the forces of the insurgent Hunga-rian noblesse were easily defeated here by Napoleon’s veterans ; and the attempts made to maintain the town against the Austrians in 1848-49 were also fruitless. About 10 miles to the south-east of Raab is St Martinsberg, the oldest and wealthiest abbey in Hungarj־.
RAB, RABBI, RABBAN, RABBONI, RABBENU, Jewish titles of honour. Rab (רב), “lord,” “master,” “ teacher,” is the title prefixed to the name of such a Baby-Ionian teacher of the Law or expounder of the Mishnah as, though authorized to “judge ” and to decide other religious questions, has not been ordained, or fully ordained, in Palestine.@@1 Rabbi (רבי, ραββεί, Matt, xxiii. 7, &c.), “my teacher,” is the title of a teacher fully ordained in Pales-tine. Rabbän, “our teacher” or “our lord,” but also “ their,” i.e., all Israel’s, teacher (רבן, later form of רבם), was the title of the prince (president of the synedrium) from the time of Gamliel I. (the Gamaliel of St Paul) and onward. If a prince-president sprang from any other house than Hillels, who was a descendant of David through the female line (as, for example, R. El'azar b. 'Azaryah), he was not called by this highest title of honour. The only ex-ception to this rule was Rabbän Yohanan b. Zakkai, to whom Jewish traditional lore owes so much,—nay, its very existence. For he not merely had a distinguished circle of pupils of his own (Aboth, ii. 8, 9), but he saved the lives of the members of the synedrium and secured its free activity. Vespasian, who knew him to have been friendly to the cause of Rome, granted him “ Yamnia and its sages” at his request (T. B., Gittin, 56b). In Babylonia, again, Rabbana (Rab-bono) was the title of the Rêsh Gäluthä, or “ head of the captivity.” He who bore it was always the reigning de-scendant of the house of David in the male line. The only person on whom this title was bestowed, though he was not Rêsh Gäluthä, was Rab Ashe (T. B., Kethuboth, 22a), the principal editor of the Babylonian Talmud, who is reported to have united in his person riches, learning, and virtues such as no man had possessed since the time of “ Rabbi,” the principal editor of the Mishnah (T. B., Gittin, 59a).
Rab, when the title is not followed by an individual name, denotes par excellence Abbä Arëkhâ (Ariklia), so called either from the place Arëkhâ in Babylonia, or be-cause of his high stature, or his eminence as a man and scholar. Abbä Arëkhâ was the most successful teacher of the Law and interpreter of the Mishnah in Babylonia, having brought the latter with him from Palestine, where he had received it orally and directly from Rabbi Yehudah Hannasi ; he taught it to more than 1200 pupils, whom he is related to have housed, fed, and clothed (T. B., Kethuboth, 106a). He introduced many religious and moral reforms, notably in connexion with marriage, which are law among the Jews of all countries to this day. His Hebrew prose approaches the sublimity of the Old Testa-ment poetry, as may be seen from the tripartite “addi-tional service ” recited by all Rabbinic Jews on the two days of the “ New Year.” He is also in Babylonia the sole representative of the sublime Palestinian Agadöth, which so closely resemble the words of the Founder of Christianity. In patience with others, and especially with his shrewish wife, he surpassed Job himself. He died as the first head of the academy of Sürä (somewhat later identified with Mäthä Mehasyä) in 247 a.d., more than eighty years old.
Rabbi, when the title is not followed by a proper name, denotes par excellence Rabbi Yehudah Hannasi, the prin-cipal editor of the Mishnah (see vol. xvi. p. 504).
@@@1 An old pronunciation of this title is Rib, as in Biribbi (ביר ריבי), of which the only true explanation is “ son of the greatest doctor of the age,” applied to R. Yose b. Halaphta (T. B., Pesahim, 100a), R. Shime'on, son of the editor of the Mishnah (Babä Bathrâ, 16b), and others. Hence the Talmudic explanation of Exod. xxiii. 2, “thou shalt not gainsay a scholar greater than thyself” (T. B., Synhcdrin, 18b).
The Hellenistic Rabboni (paftftowet,, John xx. 16) is the Aramaic ribboni used by a slave of his master, a son of his father, a wife of her husband, a worshipper of his God. (Com-pare the similar variation of the vowel in pisho = 7rao-^a.)
Rabbenu signifies “our teacher” par excellence, and means in Palestine R. Yehudah Hannasi, and in Baby-Ionia Rab (i.e., Abba Arekha).
Rabbah (רבה), also Rubbo and Rubboh, a title placed in the Palestinian Talmud and Midrashim after the names of certain teachers (T. Y., Berakhoth, i. 1; Kilayim, ix. 3, and elsewhere),
corresponds to the Hebrew הנדול in the same connexion in the Babylonian Talmud (Berakhoth, 6a, and elsewhere), and does not, as has hitherto been supposed, mean “the great” but simply “the elder.” Thus many questionable Talmudic magnitudes disappear.    (S. M. S.-S.)
RABA (Robo)—i.e., Rab Aba b. Yoseph b. Hama (Homo)—was, like his teacher Rabbah and his fellow-pupil Abayye, a scion of the house of Eli, on whom rested the double curse of poverty and that none of them should reach old age (1 Sam. ii. 31-36). According to T. B., Rosh Hasshanah, 18a,1 he sought to remove this curse, if not by sacrifices and offering then by the study of the Law, while Abayye also practised works of charity. Raba was rabbi and judge of the congregation and head of the school (methibtcC) of Mahuza. He lived in the middle of the 4th Christian century, and became on the death of his fellow-pupil Abayye head of the famous academy of Pum-baditha, which was only closed in 1040. He was noted, like his predecessor, for his genius; and the discussions between them (and similar ones of others) are known in the Babylonian Talmud as the Havayoth de-Abay ye ve-Raba (Sukkah, 28a). Raba was also noted for the liberality of his religious decisions (T. B., Berakhoth, 22b ; Pesahim, 30a, and elsewhere). Being a man of considerable wealth, he showed, in accordance with Scriptural truth (Prov. xviii. 23), his independence in every way. Thus he hesi-tated not to include the exquisites of the congregation of Mahuza, who were noted for their luxurious style of living, among the candidates for Gehenna, whose faces would one day become as dark as the sides and the bottom of a sauce-pan (T. B., Rosh Hasshanah, 17a), whilst he most ungal-lantly applied to their idle wives the passage of Amos iv. 1 (T. B., Shabbath, 32b). Raba was in fact the Abraham a Sancta Clara of his day, minus the cloister life of the latter. He was married to one of the beautiful, accomplished, and amiable daughters of his teacher, R. Hisda, whom he so dearly loved that he was ready to forgive Bar Hadya (an interpreter of dreams who had much vexed him by his adverse interpretations) everything except the interpreta-tion of a dream foreboding her death. Raba, relying on Gen. xli. 12, 13, believed that the fulfilment of dreams within certain limits was influenced by the interpretation given to them (T. B., Berakhoth, 55b).    (s. M. s.-s.)
RABAD (ראב״ד). Under this abbreviation five Jewish scholars are known, all of whom, singularly enough, lived during the 12 th century.
I. Rab Ab-Beth-Din, i.e., the chief rabbi par excellence. His real name was R. Abraham b. Yishak of Narbonne. He was the teacher of the most distinguished, rabbis of Provence, including his famous son-in-law (Rabad III.) and Rabbenu Zerahyah Hallevi, the author of the Maor. It has always been known that a great deal of literature on the Talmud belonging to him is mixed up with the works of others, notably with those of Rabad (see III. below).
In 1867-69, however, Dr B. H. Auerbach, rabbi of Halberstadt, edited for the first time Rabad’s chief work, The Eshkol, in three parts, 4to.
IL R. Abbaham b. David (Dâùd, דאוד) Hallevi of Toledo, the historiographer, who suffered martyrdom in 1180. His chief work has been printed innumerable times, and repeatedly with historical additions from earlier sources. Some of the parts of this “ Tradi-tion ” and of these additions have been translated into Latin,
English, and German. (1) His historical work, ספר הקבלה, is a chronicle down to 1161, preceded by Seder '01am and Megillath Ta'anith (Mantua, 1513, 4to) ; cheap editions are to be got in Poland. (2) His philosophico-theological work (composed in Arabic, translated into Hebrew by R. Shelomoh Ibn Labi—14th century— and into German by Weil) came out at Frankfort in 1852, 8vo.
III.    R. Abbaham b. David, disciple and son-in-law of Rabad I.
This is the “great Rabbi of Posquières.” the only opponent whom Maimonides thought a match for himself. He died in 1198. His works are :—(1) Commentary on the Mishnic treatise 'Eduyyoth (see Mishkah, vol. xvi. p. 506), which accompanies some early and all later editions of the Babylonian Talmud (that on Tamid, as-cribed to him, is not his). (2) Commentary on Siphro (see vol. xvi. p. 507).    (3) Much of Temim De'im, part of the collection
Tummath Yesharim, on various Rabbinic matters, Venice, 1622, fol. (4) Ba'ale Hannephesh, on laws relating to women (first inde-pendent edition, Prague, 1811, 4to).    (5) Hassagoth, or Strictures
on the Mishneh Torah of Maimonides (q.v.). These accompany most early and all later editions of the Mishneh Torah.
IV.    R. Abbaham b. David, author of the commentary on the Sepher Yesirah.2 His commentary has been printed innumerable times with the work itself, the editio princeps at Mantua in 1562, 4to. Part of its preface was done in Latin by Rittangelius (Am-sterdam, 1642, 4to).
V.    R. Abbaham b. David. He wrote Strictures (Hassagoth') on
Rashi on the Pentateuch. This little and most interesting book was either written by a Sepharadi or Provençal, and lies in MS. (Add., 377, 3, 1) in the Cambridge University Library. No other copy is known.    (S. M. S.-S.)
RABÂN (ראב״ן)—i.e., Rabbenu ElTezer B. Nathan of Mainz—was one of the most fanions Halakhic teachers of the 12th century. He lived at Mainz and corresponded with Rashi’s son-in-law, Rabbenu Meir b. Shemuel, and his three distinguished sons, Rashbam (q.vft, Ribam (R. Yishak b. Meir, who died young and left seven orphans), and Rabbenu Tham (R. Ya'akob). His great Halakhic work, צפנת פענח, or אבן העזר, is commonly called by the combination of the author’s initials which heads this article, the Book of Râbân, and was printed at Prague in 1610 fol.3 Other Halakhic literature by him is to be found in Koi Bo, § 123 (without place or date, but probably Naples, towards the end of the 15th century), and its reprints. More lies in MS. in libraries ; thus the Eben Haroshah, of which no other copy is known, is preserved in the Cambridge University Library (Add., 498). R. Eli'ezer was also a fine liturgical poet, vying both in senti-ment and elegance with the poets of the Sèpharadic school, as appears, for example, from the Ophan and other pieces designed for a Sabbath when there is a circumcision. Rabbenu Eli'ezer died in the 12th century. The date 5007 ( = 1247) which appears in the formulas of a bill of divorcement and a deed of manumission of a slave is most assuredly due to a scribe of the 13th century, who in transcribing Râbân’s book conformed the date to his own time—a practice often to be met with.
Dr A. Jellinek of Vienna has published a History of the First Crusade (1קונטרס מרות תתנ״, Leipsic, 1854, 8vo)—a little book interesting in more than one way—which bears the name of Râbân. It cannot, however, be by the subject of this article, as one can see by comparing with his genuine work the questionable poetic stuff which forms part of the Konteres. The author is no doubt Râbân of Cologne. Nor does the commentary on אל אלהים (for Pentecost eve) under the title of מאמר השכל, which has been often printed, and of which the Cambridge Library has an old MS. (Add., 493, 1),
1 See Rashi, catchword אביי ורבא ; Hullin, 133a, catchwords
בדק לן and זבי לי מתנתא. The Tosaphotli and printed editions (ll.cc.) put Rabbah (q.v.) for Raba; but Rashi’s traditional reading (בך שמעתי) must be right. For, in the first place, it would have been on the part of the Talmud superfluous to state that Rabbah and Abayye were of the house of Eli, seeing that the latter was the son of the brother of the former. And secondly, the story goes (Rosh Hasshanah, l.c.) that he who only studied the Law died at the age of forty (Abayye living to sixty), whereas the synchronisms of Rabbah’s life show that he must have lived to a much greater age.
2    The idea that R. Yoseph Arukh—Ma/cpos (a Greek) orLongus (a Roman)—was the author of this commentary must be given up. On the other hand, it is not quite impossible that this commentator and the writer of the Strictures on Rashi are one and the same person.
3    The thanks of the writer of these lines are due to the curators and librarian of the Bodleian for the loan of this book.
belong to this Bâbân, though it has been ascribed to him for 600 years. Its writer was undoubtedly a Provençal. (S. M. S. - S. )
RABANUS MAURUS. See Hrabanus Maurus. RABAT (Ribât), Rbât, or Arbât, also known as New
Sallee, a city of Morocco, on the coast of the Atlantic, 130 miles south of Cape Spartel at the mouth of the Bü Rakrak, which separates it from Sallee proper on the northern bank. It is a commercial town of about 26,000 to 30,000 inhabitants, occupying a rocky plateau and surrounded by massive but dilapidated walls, strengthened by three forts on the seaward side. The old citadel, overhanging the mouth of the river, is still, though partially in ruins, an imposing building, with huge arched gateways, square towers, and masses of rich red-brown masonry ; and to the south of the town lies a modern palace defended by earthworks after the European fashion. The conspicuous feature in the view from the sea is the Hasan tower, a beautiful square-built minaret 180 feet high, which stands at an elevation of about 65 feet above the sea to the west of the walled town, and in the midst of gardens and orchards whose vegetation partly hides the ruined columns of the ancient mosque to which it was attached. It is constructed of soft reddish-brown stone, and each side is adorned with a different design. At one time the Bü Rakrak afforded a much better harbour than it does now : the roadstead is quite unprotected, and there is a dangerous bar at the mouth of the river. Rabât trades with Fez and the interior of Morocco, with the neighbouring coast-towns and Gibraltar, and with Marseilles, Manchester, and London. The principal articles of export are wool, hides, and wax, and the products of that local manufacture of leather, carpets, mats, woollen and cotton stuffs, pottery, and circular brass trays which makes Rabât the greatest industrial centre in Morocco. Cotton goods and loaf-sugar are first among the imports. The average value of the exports in the ten years 1872 to 1881 was £47,236, and of the imports £73,945. In 1883 the figures were £39,596 and £50,222 respectively.
Sallee (Salâ), on the north side of the river, is also enclosed with walls. Much of the interior, however, is vacant and the houses are mean; and, unlike their neighbours of Rabât, the inhabitants (about 30,000) down to quite recent times distinguished themselves by particular hostility to Christians, who were thus prevented from entering their gates. To the north a ruined aqueduct extends for miles.
Rabat was founded by Yak'ub al-Mansur (ob. 1306) ; but Sallee was then an ancient city, and on the scarped hills to the west of Rabat stand the ruins of Saia, a Roman colony. Sheila, as the place is now called, was the seat of the mausoleum of the Beni-Merin dynasty.
RABBA, a town of Nupi or Nufi, on the bank of the Kworra (Niger), opposite the island of Zagozhi, in 9° 6׳ N. lat., and 200 miles above the confluence of the Kworra and the Binue. At the time of Lander’s visit in 1830 it was a place of 40,000 inhabitants and one of the most important markets in the country. In 1851 Dr Barth reported it “in ruins,” and in 1867 Rohlfs found it with only 500 inhabitants. A mission station, established there in 1857 by the Church Missionary Society, was afterwards withdrawn. The town has latterly somewhat recovered its position.
RABBAH—i.e., Rab Abbah bar Nahmani—was of the house of Eli, on whom the curse rested that none of them should reach a high age (1 Sam. ii. 33). Like Râba, he tried to remove this curse (T. B., Rosh Has-shanah, 18a ; see Râbâ). He was twenty-two years head of the academy of Pumbadithâ, from which he fled in the year 330, pursued by a troop of the Persian king (Shâpür IL), and perished miserably in a jungle (T. B., Bobo Mets io, leaf 86a).
Rabbah, owing to his great dialectic powers, to which no difficulty seemed difficult, was called 'Oker Harim, “uprooter of mountains. ”@@1 This title was applied to him when the selection as “ head ” lay between him and his friend, fellow-pupil, and successor, Rab Yoseph, “the Blind,” to whom is commonly, but by mistake, ascribed the authorship of certain Targumim. This latter doctor was, owing to his vast but mere reproductive powers, called Sinai, the mountain from which the letter of the Law was given (T. B., Berakhoth, 64a).    (S. M. S.-S.)
RABBI. See Rab.
RABBIT. This animal, one of the best known and most frequently seen of all wild British mammals, is, with the hare, a member of the Rodent genus Lepus, which contains about twenty-five other species spread over the greater part nf the world, and whose more important characters have already been referred to (see Hare, vol. xi. p. 476, and Mammalia, vol. xv. p. 421).
The rabbit (Lepus cuniculus), speaking for the present of the wild race only, is distinguished from the hare externally by its smaller size, shorter ears and feet, by the absence or reduction of the black patch at the tip of the ears so characteristic of the hare, and by its greyer colour. The skull is very similar to that of the hare (see Mammalia, fig. 99), but is smaller and lighter, and has a slenderer muzzle and a longer and narrower palate. Besides these characters, however, the rabbit is sharply
separated from the hare by the fact that it brings forth its young naked, blind, and helpless; to compensate for this, it digs a deep burrow in the earth in which they are born and reared, while the young of the hare are born fully clothed with fur, and able to take care of themselves in the mere shallow depression or “ form ” in which they are born. The weight of the rabbit is from 2| to 3 lb, although individuals perfectly wild have been recorded up to more than 5. Its general habits are too well known to need a detailed description here. It breeds from four to eight times a year, bringing forth each time from three to eight young. Its period of gestation is about thirty days, and it is able to bear when six months old. It attains to an age of about seven or eight years.
The geographical distribution of the rabbit presents many most interesting peculiarities. It is believed to be originally a native of the western half of the Mediterranean basin only, and still abounds in Spain, Sardinia, southern Italy and Sicily, Greece, Tunis, and Algeria; and many of the islands adjoining these countries are quite overrun with it. Thence it has spread, partly by man’s agency, northwards throughout temperate western Europe, increasing rapidly wherever it gains a footing; and this extension is still going on, as is shown by the
@@@1 See for a similar expression Matt. xvii. 20.
case of Scotland, in which sixty years ago rabbits were little known, while they are now found in all suitable localities up to the extreme north. It has also gained admittance into Ireland, and now abounds there as much as in England. Out of Europe the same extension of range has been going on. In New Zealand and Australia rabbits, introduced either for profit or sport, have increased to such an extent as to form one of the most serious pests that the farmers have to contend against, as the climate and soil seem to suit them perfectly and their natural enemies are too few and too lowly organized to keep their numbers within reasonable bounds. In other cases rabbits introduced into islands have become or remained more or less distinct from their parent stock; thus the rabbits both of the Falkland Islands and of Jamaica still show traces of their descent from domesticated varieties, and have never reverted to the ordinary brownish-grey type. And again, as was pointed out by Mr Darwin,1  the rabbits in the island of Porto Santo, near Madeira, whose ancestors were introduced from Spain in 1418 or 1419, have formed quite a distinct diminutive race, barely half the bulk or weight of English rabbits, and differing in certain slight details of colour and habits.
The rabbit has been domesticated by man from a very early period. No doubt exists amongst naturalists that all the varieties of the domestic animal are descended from the Lepus cuniculus. The variations which have been perpetuated and intensified by artificial selection are, with the exception of those of the dog, greater than have been induced in any other species of mammal. For not only has the weight been more than quadrupled in some of the larger breeds, and the structure of the skull and other parts of the skeleton greatly altered, but the proportionate size of the brain has been considerably reduced and the colour and texture of the fur altered in the most remarkable manner. The establishment of these extreme variations is dependent on the highly artificial conditions under which the animals are kept, their great prolificacy, and the rapidity with which the generations succeed each other, which enable the process of artificial selection by the preservation of those most suited to the purposes of the breeder to be carried into effect with facility.
The Lop-eared breed is the oldest English fancy variety ; it has been cultivated carefully for about a century, the aim of the breeder being chiefly directed to the development of the size of the ears, and with such success that they sometimes measure more than 23 inches from tip to tip and exceed 6 inches in width. This development, which is accompanied by great changes in the structure of the skull, that have been carefully described by Darwin in his Variation of Animals, &c., depends on breeding the animals in warm damp hutches, without which the best developed parents fail to produce the desired offspring. In colour the lop-eared rabbits vary greatly.
The Belgian hare is a large variety of a hardy and prolific character, which closely resembles the common hare in colour, and is not unlike it in form. Some few years since many of these animals were sold as leporides or hybrids, produced by the union of the hare and the rabbit; but the most careful experimenters have failed to obtain any such hybrid, and the naked immature condition in which young rabbits are born as compared with the clothed and highly developed young hares renders it exceedingly unlikely that hybrids could be produced. Nor does the flesh of the Belgian rabbit resemble that of the hare in colour or flavour. A closely allied variety, though of even larger size, is known by the absurd name of Patagonian rabbit; it has no relation to the country after which it is called.
The Angora rabbit is characterized by the extreme elongation and fineness of the fur, which in good specimens reaches 6 or 7 inches in length, requiring great care and frequent combing to prevent it from becoming matted. The Angoras most valued are albinos, with pure white fur and pink eyes ; in some parts of the Continent they are kept by the peasants and clipped regularly.
Amongst the breeds which are valued for the distribution of colour on the fur are the Himalayan and the Dutch. The former is white, but the whole of the extremities—viz., the nose, the ears, tail, and feet—are black or very dark in colour. This very pretty breed has no connexion with the mountain chain from whence it has taken its name, but is a variety produced by careful breeding and selection as fully described by Darwin {op. ¿it.). Though but recently produced by crossing, it now generally breeds true to colour, at times throwing back, however, to the silver greys from which it was derived. The rabbits known in Great Britain as Dutch are of small size, and are valued for the disposition of the colour and markings. The entire body behind the shoulder-blades is uniformly coloured, with the exception of the feet ; the anterior part of the body, including the fore legs, neck, and jaws, is white, the cheeks and ears being coloured. In some strains the coloured portion extends in front of the fore legs, leaving only a ring of white round the neck. The more accurately the coloured portion is defined the higher is the animal esteemed.
1 ForiaZion of Animals and Plants, 2d ed., i. p. 119.
The Silver grey is a uniform coloured variety, the fur of which is a rich chinchilla grey, varying in depth of colour in the different strains. From the greater value of the fur silver greys have been frequently employed to stock warrens, as they breed true to colour in the open if the ordinary wild rabbits are rigorously excluded. Other colours known, as Silver cream and Silver brown, are closely allied varieties.
As an article of food the domesticated rabbit is of considerable importance. From 100 to 200 tons are imported into London from Ostend every week during the colder months of the year, having been reared in hutches by the Belgian peasants. They are forwarded without their skins, which are half the value of the flesh. A plan has been recently devised by Major Morant, which is known as “hutch-farming in the open.” The animals are kept in large hutches with projecting roofs, floored with coarse galvanized iron netting, through which the grass projects to be eaten by the rabbits. The hutches are shifted twice or thrice a day, so that the animals are constantly on clean ground and have fresh food. The young, when old enough to leave the mother, are reared in somewhat larger hutches of a similar description and killed for market under three months of age.
RABELAIS, François (c. 14901553־), the greatest of French humourists and one of the few great humourists of the world, was born at Chinon on the Vienne in the province of Touraine. The date of his birth is wholly uncertain : it has been put by tradition and by authorities long subsequent to his death as 1483, 1490, and 1495. There is nothing in the positive facts of his life which would not suit tolerably well with any of these dates; most 17th-century authorities give the earliest, and this also accords best with the age of the eldest of the Du Bellay brothers, with whom Rabelais was at school. In favour of the latest it is urged that if Rabelais was born in 1483 he must have been forty-seven when he entered at Montpellier, and proportionately and unexpectedly old at other known periods of his life. In favour of the middle date, which has, as far as recent authorities are concerned, the weight of consent in its favour, the testimony of Guy Patin, a witness of some merit and not too far removed in point of time, is invoked, though perhaps the fact of its being a via media has really had most to do with the adoption. The only contribution which need be made here to the controversy is to point out that if Rabelais was born in 1483 he must have been an old man when he died, and that scarcely even tradition speaks of him as such. And since this tradition is mentioned it may as well be observed at once that all the anecdotes of Rabelais without exception, and most of the accounts of the facts of his life, date from a period long posterior to his death and are utterly unworthy of credence. Colletet nearly a hundred years later, Antoine Leroy a full hundred, and Bernier nearly a hundred and fifty collected or invented stories which, as far as any actual authority goes, must be regarded as worthless. Bishop Huet’s researches were made nearly as late as Bernier’s. Throughout this article, therefore, when tradition or any similar word is used without further precision it will be understood that the statements have in themselves only conjectural validity.
With regard to his birth, parentage, youth, and education everything depends upon tradition, and it is not until he was according to one extreme hypothesis thirty-six, according to the other extreme twenty-four, that we have solid testimony respecting him. In the year 1519, on the 5th of April, the François Rabelais of history emerges. The monks of Fontenay le Comte bought some property (half an inn in the town), and among their signatures to the deed of purchase is that of François Rabelais. Before this all is cloudland. It is said that he had four brothers
and no sisters, that his father had a country property called La Devinière, and was either an apothecary or a tavern-keeper. Half a century after his death De Thou mentions that the house in which he was born had become a tavern. It still stands at the corner of a street called the Rue de la Lamproie, and the tradition may be correct. An indistinct allusion of his own has been taken to mean that he was tonsured in childhood at seven or nine years old; and tradition says that he was sent to the convent of Seuilly, though of course he could then have taken no definite vows, and there is no evidence whatever that the passage in question, which simply condemns the practice referred to, has any personal reference. From Seuilly at an unknown date tradition takes him either to the university of Angers or to the convent school of La Baumette or La Basmette, founded by good King René in the neighbourhood of the Angevin capital. Here he is supposed to have been at school with the brothers Du Bellay, with Geoffroy d’Estissac and others. The next stage in this (as far as evidence goes, purely imaginary) career is the monastery of Fontenay le Comte, where, as has been seen, he is certainly found in 1519 holding a position sufficiently senior to sign deeds for the community, where he, as will be seen, certainly, though at an unknown date, took priest’s orders, and where he also pursued, again certainly, the study of letters, and especially of Greek, with ardour. From this date, therefore, he becomes historically visible. The next certain intelligence which we have of Rabelais is somewhat more directly biographical than this bare entry of his name. The letters of the well-known Greek scholar Budæus, two of which are addressed to Rabelais himself and several more to his friend and fellow-monk Pierre Amy, together with some notices by André Tiraqueau, a learned jurist, to whom Rabelais rather than his own learning has secured immortality, show beyond doubt what manner of life the future author of Gargantua led in his convent. These letters are partly written in Greek and partly in Latin. In Tiraqueau’s book De Legibus Connubialibus, which excited a controversy with another jurist of the west, Bouchard, also a friend of Rabelais, the latter is described as “a man most learned in both languages and all kinds of scholarship above his age, and beyond the wont and, if I may say so, the excessive scrupulousness of his order.” The excessive scrupulousness of the order showed itself before long in reference to Amy and Rabelais, the latter of whom had, as this sentence of Tiraqueau’s also informs us, translated the first book of Herodotus. The letters of Budæus show that an attempt was made by the heads of the convent or the order to check the studious ardour of these Franciscans; but it failed, and there is no positive evidence of anything like actual persecution, the phrases in the letters of Budæus being merely the usual exaggerated Ciceronianism of the Renaissance. Some books and papers were seized as suspicious, then given back as innocent ; but Rabelais was in all probability disgusted with the cloister,—indeed his great work shows this beyond doubt. In 1524, the year of the publication of Tiraqueau’s book above cited, his friend Geoffroy d’Estissac procured from Clement VII. an induit, licensing a change of order and of abode for Rabelais. From a Franciscan he became a Benedictine, and from Fontenay he moved to Maillezais, of which Geoffroy d’Estissac was bishop. He seems indeed to have been constantly in the company of the bishop and to have made many new literary acquaintances, notably Jean Bouchet, the poet. To him he wrote an epistle in French verse, still extant, which proves that Rabelais, much more truly than Swift, never could have been a poet. The title of this epistle is, however, noteworthy, inasmuch as the author is described in the original (a collection of Bouchet’s works published in 1545) as a man of great literary knowledge in Greek and Latin, and as a great orator in Greek, Latin, and French. But even this learned and hospitable retreat did not apparently satisfy Rabelais. In or before 1530 he left Maillezais, abandoned his Benedictine garb for that of a secular priest, and, as he himself puts it in his subsequent Supplicatio pro Apostasia to Pope Paul III., “ per seculum diu vagatus fuit.” He is met at Montpellier in the year just mentioned. He entered the faculty of medicine there on the 16th of September and became bachelor on the 1st of November, a remarkably short interval, which shows what was thought of his acquirements. Early in 1531 he lectured publicly on Galen and Hippocrates, while his more serious pursuits seem to have been chequered by acting in a morale comédie, then a very frequent university amusement. Visits to the îles d’Hières, and the composition of a fish sauce in imitation of the ancient garum, which he sent to his friend Dolet, are associated, not very certainly, with his stay at Montpellier, which, lasting rather more than a year at first, was renewed at intervals for several years.
In 1532, however, and probably rather early than late in that year, he had moved from Montpellier to Lyons. Here he plunged into manifold work, literary and professional. He was appointed before the beginning of November physician to the hôtel dieu, with a salary of forty livres per annum. He edited for Sebastian Gryphius, in the single year 1532, the medical Epistles of Giovanni Manardi, the Aphorisms of Hippocrates, with the Ars Parva of Galen, and an edition of two supposed Latin documents, which, however, happened unluckily to be forgeries. These three works were dedicated in order to his three chief friends of Touraine and Poitou, André Tiraqueau, the bishop of Maillezais, and Bouchard. We also have a Latin letter written on 1st December 1532 to a certain Bernard de Salignac, otherwise unknown.
It is certain that at this time Lyons was the centre and to a great extent the headquarters of an unusually enlightened society, and indirectly it is clear that Rabelais became intimate with this society. A manuscript distich, which was found in the Toulouse library, on the death of an infant named Theodule, whose country was Lyons and his father Rabelais, would seem to show that he here entered into other connexions than those of friendship. Absolutely nothing, however, is known about the child and its mother ; it is enough to say that the existence of the former would have been by the manners and morals of the time very easily condoned. But what makes the Lyons sojourn of the greatest real importance is that at this time probably appeared the beginnings of the work which was to make Rabelais immortal. It is necessary to say “ probably,” because the strange uncertainty which rests on so much of his life and writings exists here also. There is no doubt that both Gargantua and Pantagruel were popular names of giants in the Middle Ages, though, curiously enough, no mention of the former in French literature much before Rabelais’s time has been traced. In 1526, however, Charles de Bordigné, in a satiric work of no great merit, entitled La Légende de Pierre Faifeu, has the name Gargantua with an allusion, and in 1532 (if not earlier) there appeared at Lyons Les Grandes et Inestimables Chroniques du Grand et Enorme Géant Gargantua. This is a short book on the plan of the later burlesques and romances of the Round Table. Arthur and Merlin appear with Grantgosier, as he is here spelt, Galemelle (Gargalelle), Gargantua himself, and the terrible mare. But there is no trace of the action or other characters of Gargantua that was to be, nor is the manner of the piece in the least worthy of Rabelais. No one supposes that he wrote it, though it has been supposed that he edited it and that in
reality it is older than 1532, and may be the direct subject of Bordigné’s allusion six years earlier. What does, however, seem probable is that the first book of Pantagruel (the second of the whole work) was composed with a definite view to this chap book and not to the existing first book of Gargantua, which was written afterwards when Rabelais discovered the popularity of his work and felt that it ought to have some worthier starting-point than the Grandes Chroniques. The earliest known and dated edition of Pantagruel is of 1533, of Gargantua 1535, though this would not be of itself conclusive, especially as we actually possess editions of both which, though undated, seem to be earlier. But the definite description of Gargantua in the title as “ Père de Pantagruel,” the omission of the words “ second livre ” in the title of the first book of Pantagruel while the second and third are duly entitled “tiers” and “quart,” the remarkable fact that one of the most important personages, Friar John, is absent from book ii., the first of Pantagruel, though he appears in book i. (Gargantua), and many other proofs show the order of publication clearly enough. There is also in existence a letter of Calvin, dated 1533, in which he speaks of Pantagruel, but not of Gargantua, as having been condemned as an obscene book. Besides this, 1533 saw the publication of an almanac, the first of a long series which exists only in titles and fragments, and of the amusing Prognostication Pantagrueline (still, be it observed, Panta-grueline, not Gargantuine). Both this and Pantagruel itself were published under the anagrammatic pseudonym of “Alcofribas Nasier,” shortened to the first word only in the case of the Prognostication.
This busy and interesting period of Rabelais’s life was brought to a close apparently by his introduction or réintroduction to Jean du Bellay. They had been, it has been said, schoolfellows, but Bellay does not appear among the list of Rabelais’s friends in the first years of his emancipation. From 1534, however, he and the other members of his family appear as Rabelais’s chief and constant patrons during the remainder of his life. It was just before Christmas that Jean du Bellay, passing through Lyons on an embassy to Rome, engaged Rabelais as physician. The visit did not last very long, but it left literary results in an edition of a description of Rome by Marliani, which Rabelais published in September 1534. It is also thought that the first edition of Gargantua may have appeared this year.
In the spring - of 1535 the authorities of the Lyons hospital, considering that Rabelais had twice absented himself without leave, elected Pierre de Castel in his room ; but the documents which exist do not seem to infer that any blame was thought due to him, and the appointment of his successor was once definitely postponed in case he should return. An epigram of Dolet shows that at least once and probably about this time he performed a public dissection. At the end of 1535 Rabelais once more accompanied Jean du Bellay, now a cardinal, to Rome and stayed there till April in the next year. This stay furnishes some biographical documents of importance in the shape of letters to Geoffroy d’Estissac, of the already-mentioned Supplicatio pro Apostasia, and of the bull of absolution which was the reply to it. This bull not only freed Rabelais from ecclesiastical censure but gave him the right to return to the order of St Benedict when he chose, and to practise medicine. He took advantage of this bull and became a canon of St Maur. The monastery having but recently become collegiate, there seems to have been some technical difficulty which necessitated a new supplication. In the next year (1537) we find Rabelais present at a dinner where the friends of Étienne Dolet met to congratulate him on his pardon for the homicide of
Compaing. The luckless printer has left a poem on the occasion, and two other writers, Salmon Macrin and Nicholas Bourbon, have also left poems of this date expressing the regard in which Rabelais was generally held. Now, too, he took his doctor’s degree at Montpellier, lectured on the Greek text of Hippocrates, and next year made a public anatomical demonstration. During these two years he seems to have resided either at Montpellier or at Lyons. But in 1539 he entered the service of Guillaume du Bellay-Langey, elder brother of Jean, and would appear to have been with him (he was governor of Piedmont) till his death on 9th January 1543. Rabelais wrote a panegyrical memoir of Guillaume, which is lost, and the year before saw the publication of an edition of Gargantua and Pantagruel, book i., together (both had been repeatedly reprinted separately), in which some dangerous expressions were cut away. Nothing at all is known of his life, whereabouts, or occupations till the publication of the third book, which appeared in 1546, “ avec privilège du roi,” which had been given in September 1545.
Up to this time Rabelais, despite the condemnation of the Sorbonne referred to above, had experienced nothing like persecution or difficulty. Even the spiteful or treacherous act of Dolet, who in 1542 reprinted the earlier form of the books which Rabelais had just slightly modified, seems to have done him no harm. But the storm of persecution which towards the end of the reign of Francis I. was fatal to Dolet himself and to Despériers, while it exiled and virtually killed Marot, did not leave Rabelais scatheless. There is no positive evidence of any measures taken or threatened against him ; but it is certain that he passed nearly the whole of 1546 and part of 1547 at Metz in Lorraine as physician to the town at the salary of 120 livres, that Sturm speaks of him as having been “cast out of France by the times ” (with the exclamation φευ των χρόνων) in a contemporary letter, and that he himself in a letter, also contemporary, though it is not clear whether it is of 1546 or the next year, gives a doleful account of his pecuniary affairs and asks for assistance. At Francis’s death on 31st March 1547 Du Bellay went to Rome, and at some time not certain Rabelais joined him. He was certainly there in February 1549, when he dates from Du Bellay’s palace a little account of the festivals given at Rome to celebrate the birth of the second son of Henry II. and Catherine de’ Medici. This account, the Sciomachie as it is called, is extant. In the same year a monk of Fontevrault, Gabriel du Puits-Herbault, made in a book called Theotimus the first of the many attacks on Rabelais. It is, however, as vague as it is violent, and it does not seem to have had any effect. Rabelais had indeed again made for himself protectors whom no clerical or Sorbonist jealousy could touch. The Sciomachie was written to the cardinal of Guise, whose family were all-powerful at court, and Rabelais dedicated his next book to Odet de Chatillon, afterwards cardinal, a man of great influence. Thus Rabelais was able to return to France, and was presented to the livings of Meudon and St Christophe de Jambet. It may, however, surprise those who have been accustomed to hear him spoken of as “ curé de Meudon ” and who have read lives of him founded on legend to find that there is very little ground for believing that he ever officiated or resided there. He certainly held the living but two years, resigning it in January 1552 along with his other benefice, and it is noteworthy that at the episcopal visitation of 1551 he was not present. To this supposed residence at Meudon and to the previous stay at Rome, however, are attached two of the most mischievous items of the legend, though fortunately two of the most easily refutable. It is said that Rabelais met and quarrelled with Joachim du Bellay the
poet at Rome, and with Ronsard at Meudon and elsewhere, that this caused a breach between him and the Pléiade, that he satirized its classicizing tendencies in the episode of the Limousin scholar, and that Ronsard after his death avenged himself by a libellous epitaph. The facts are these. Nothing is heard of the quarrel with Du Bellay or of any meeting with him, nothing of the meetings and bickerings with Ronsard, till 1699, when Bernier tells the story without any authority. The supposed allusions to the Pléiade date from a time when Ronsard was a small boy, and are mainly borrowed from an earlier writer still, Geoffroy Tory. Lastly, the epitaph read impartially is not libellous at all but simply takes up the vein of the opening scenes of Gargantua in reference to Gargantua’s author. There is indeed no reason to suppose that either Ronsard or Du Bellay was a fervent admirer of Rabelais, for they belonged to a very different literary school ; but there is absolutely no evidence of any enmity between them or even of any acquaintanceship which could have given rise to enmity.
Some chapters of Rabelais’s fourth book had been published in 1548, but the whole did not appear till 1552. The Sorbonne censured it and the parliament suspended the sale, taking advantage of the king’s absence from Paris. But it was soon relieved of the suspension. This is the last fact we know about Rabelais. It is supposed that he died in 1553, but actual history is quite silent, and the legends about his deathbed utterances—“La farce est jouée,” “Je vais chercher un grand peut-être,” &c.—are altogether apocryphal. The same may be said of the numerous silly stories told of his life, such as that of his procuring a free passage to Paris by inscribing packets “Poison for the king,” and so forth.
Ten years after the publication of the fourth book and nine after the supposed date of the author’s death there appeared at Lyons sixteen chapters entitled VÎle Sonnante par Maistre François Rabelais, and two years later the entire fifth book was printed as such. In 1567 it took place with the others, and has ever since appeared with them. But from the beginning of the 17th century there have never been wanting disbelievers in its authenticity. The controversy is one of some intricacy, but as it is also one of capital importance in literary history the heads of it at least must be given here. The opponents of the book rely (1) on the testimony of a certain Louis Guyon, who in 1604 declared that the fifth book was made long after Rabelais’s death by an author whom he knew, and who was not a doctor, and on the assertion of the bibliographer Du Verdier, about the same time, that it was written by an “écolier de Valence”; (2) on the fact that the anti-monastic and even anti-Catholic polemic is much more accentuated in it ; (3) that parts are apparently replicas or rough drafts of passages already appearing in the four earlier books; (4) that some allusions are manifestly posterior to even the farthest date which can be assigned for the reputed author’s decease. On the other hand, it is urged that, though Guyon and Du Verdier were in a sense contemporaries, they wrote long after the events, and that the testimony of the former is vitiated, not merely by its extreme vagueness but by the fact that it occurs in a plaidoyer, tending to exculpate physicians from the charge of unorthodoxy ; that Du Verdier in another place assigns the Pantagrueline Prognostication to this same unknown student of Valence, and had therefore probably confused and hearsay notions on the subject ; that the rasher and fiercer tone, as well as the apparent repetitions, are sufficiently accounted for on the supposition that Rabelais never finally revised the book, which indeed dates show that he could not have done, as the fourth was not finally settled till just before his death ;
and that it is perfectly probable, and indeed almost certain, that it was prepared from his papers by another hand, which is responsible for the anachronous allusions above referred to. But the strongest argument, and one which has never been attacked by authorities really competent to judge, is that the “ griffe de l’aigle ” is on the book, and that no known author of the time except Rabelais was capable of writing the passage about the Chats fourres, the better part of the history of Queen Whims (La Quinte) and her court, and the conclusion giving the Oracle of the Bottle. To this argument we believe that the more competent a critic is, both by general faculty of appreciation and by acquaintance with contemporary French literature, the more positive will be the assent that he yields.
Gargantua and Pantagruel, notwithstanding their high literary standing and the frequency with which certain passages from them are cited, are, owing partly to their archaism of language and partly to the extreme licence which their author has allowed himself, so little read that no notice of them or of him could be complete without some sketch of their contents. The first book, Gargantua, describes the birth of that hero (a giant and the son of gigantic parents), whose nativity is ushered in by the account of a tremendous feast. In this the burlesque exaggeration of the pleasures of eating and drinking, which is one of the chief exterior notes of the whole work, is pushed to an extreme,—an extreme which has attracted natural but perhaps undue attention. Very early, however, the author becomes serious in contrasting the early education of his hero—a satire on the degraded schools of the Middle Ages—with its subsequent and reformed stage, in the account of which all the best and noblest ideas of the humanist Renaissance in reference to pedagogy are put with exceptional force. Gargantua is recalled from Paris, whither he had been sent to finish his education, owing to a war between his father, Grandcosier, and the neighbouring king, Picrochole. This war is described at great length, the chief hero of it being the monk, Friar John, a very unclerical cleric, in whom Rabelais greatly delights. Picrochole defeated and peace made, Gargantua establishes the abbey of Thelema in another of Rabelais’s most elaborate literary passages, where all the points most obnoxious to him in monastic life are indicated by the assignment of their exact opposites to this model convent. The second book, which introduces the principal hero of the whole, Pantagruel, Gargantua’s son, is, on any other hypothesis but that already suggested of its prior composition, very difficult to explain, but in itself it is intelligible enough. Pantagruel goes through something like a second edition (really a first) of the educational experiences of his father. Like him, he goes to Paris, and there meets with Panurge, the principal triumph of Rabelaisian character-drawing, and the most original as well as puzzling figure of the book. Panurge has almost all intellectual accomplishments, but is totally devoid of morality : he is a coward, a drunkard, a lecher, a spiteful trickster, a spendthrift, but all the while infinitely amusing. This book, like the other, has a war in its latter part; Gargantua scarcely appears in it and Friar John not at all. It is not till the opening of the third book that the most important action begins. This arises from Panurge’s determination to marry — a determination, however, which is very half-hearted, and which leads him to consult a vast number of authorities, each giving occasion for satire of a more or less complicated kind. At last it is determined that Pantagruel
and his followers (·Friar John has reappeared in the suite of the
” 1 ---” ־ r ' ־־
eulogy of the “herb pantagruelion,” which appears to be, if it is anything, hemp. Only two probable explanations of this have been ottered, the one seeing in it an anticipation of Joseph de Maistre’s glorification of the executioner, the other a eulogy of work, hemp being on the whole the most serviceable of vegetable products for that purpose. The fourth and fifth books are entirely taken up with a description of the voyage. Many strange places with stranger names are visited, some of them offering obvious satire on human institutions, others, except by the most far-fetched explanations, resolvable into nothing but sheer extravaganza. At last the Land of Lanterns, borrowed from Lucian, is reached, ami the Oracle of the Bottle is consulted. This yields the single word “Trinq,” which the attendant priestess declares to be the most gracious and intelligible she has ever heard from it. I’anurge takes this as a sanction of his marriage and the book ends abruptly. This singular romance is diversified by or, to speak more properly, it is the vehicle of the most bewildering abundance of digression, burlesque amplification, covert satire on things political, social, and religious, miscellaneous erudition of the literary and scientific kind. Everywhere the author lays stress on the excellence of “ Pantagruelism,” and the reader who is himself a Pantagruelist (it is perfectly idle for any other to attempt the book) soon discovers
what this means. It is, in plain English, humour. The definition of humour is a generally acknowledged crux, and till it is defined the definition of Pantagruelism will be in the same position. But that it consists in the extension of a wide sympathy to all human affairs together with a comprehension of their vanity may be said as safely as anything else. Moroseness and dogmatism are as far from the Pantagruelism of Rabelais as maudlin sentimentality or dilettantism. Perhaps the chief things lacking in his attitude are, in the first place, reverence, of which, however, from a few passages, it is clear he was by no means totally devoid, and an appreciation of passion and poetry. Here and there there are touches of the1  latter, as in the portrait of Quintessence, but passion is everywhere absent—an absence for which the comic structure and plan of the book does not by any means supply a complete explanation.
For a general estimate of Rabelais’s literary character and influence the reader may be referred to the article France (vol. ix. p. 652). But some detailed remarks must be given here. The life and works of Rabelais, despite the considerable number of publications of which they have been the subject, have hitherto been less fully and satisfactorily treated than the life and works of any author who occupies an equally important place. As will have been seen from the foregoing attempt to give the actual facts, a whole legend has grown up round the scanty details recorded of him, and many, if not all, of the particulars of that legend can be shown to be false. But no one hitherto has undertaken in a satisfactory fashion the construction of a rigorously critical life. In the same way there are many questions in reference to his main work which have never been thoroughly and finally sifted by a critical intelligence equal to the task. Limits of space, to say no more, prevent any such attempt being made here ; but there are three questions without the discussion of which this notice of one of the foremost writers of the world would not be worthy of its present place. These are —What is the general drift and purpose of Gargantua and Panta-gruel, supposing there to be any ? What defence can be oifered, if any defence is needed, for the extraordinary licence of language and imagery which the author has permitted himself? What was his attitude towards the great questions of religion, philosophy, and politics ? These questions succeed each other in the order of reason, and the answer to each assists the resolution of the next.
There have been few more remarkable instances of the lues com-mentatoria than the work of the editors of Rabelais. Almost every one appears to have started with a Rabelais ready made in his head, and to have, so to speak, read that Rabelais into the book. Those who have not done this, like Le Duchat, Motteux, and Esmangart, have generally committed the error of tormenting themselves and their author to find individual explanations of personages and events. The extravagance of the last-named commentator takes the form of seeing elaborate allegories ; that of some others devotes itself chiefly to identifying the characters of the romance with more or less famous historical persons. But the first blunder, that of forming a general hypothetical conception of Rabelais and then adjusting interpretation of the work to it, is the commoner. This conception, however, has singularly varied. According to some expositors, among whom the latest and not the least respectable is M. Fleury, Rabelais is a sober reformer, an apostle of earnest work, of sound education, of rational if not dogmatic religion, who wraps up his morals in a farcical envelope partly to make them go down with the vulgar and partly to shield himself from the consequences of his reforming zeal. According to others, of whom we have had in England a distinguished example in Mr Besant, Rabelais is all this but with a difference. He is not religious at all; he is more or less anti-religious ; and his book is more or less of a general protest against any attempt to explain supematurally the riddle of the earth. According to a third class, the most distinguished recent representative of which was M. Paul Lacroix, the Rabelaisian legend does not so much err in principle as it invents in fact. Rabelais is the incarnation of the “ esprit Gaulois,” a jovial careless soul, not destitute of common sense or even acute intellectual power, but first of all a good fellow, rather preferring a broad jest to a fine-pointed one, and rollicking through life like a good-natured undergraduate. Of all these views it may be said that those who hold them are obliged to shut their eyes to many things in the book and to see in it many which are not there. The religious part of the matter will be dealt with presently ; but it is impossible to think that any unbiassed judge reading Rabelais can hold the grave philosopher view or the reckless good fellow view without modifications and allowances which practically deprive either of any value as a sufficient explanation of the book and its writer. Those who, as it has been happily put, identify Rabelais with Pantagruel, strive in vain on any view intellectually consistent or morally respectable to account for the vast ocean of pure or impure laughter and foolery which surrounds the few solid islets of sense and reason and devotion. Those wr ho in the same way identify Rabelais with Panurge can never explain the education scheme, the solemn apparition of Gargantua among the farcical and fantastic variations on Panurge’s wedding, and many other passages ; while, on the other hand, those who insist on a definite propaganda of any kind must justify themselves by their own power of seeing things invisible to plain men. But these vagaries are not only unjustifiable ; they are entirely unnecessary. No one reading Rabelais without parti pris, but with a good knowledge of the history and literature of his own times and the times which preceded him, can have much difficulty in appreciating his book. He had evidently during his long and studious sojourn in the cloister (a sojourn which was certainly not less than five-and-twenty years, while it may have been five-and-thirty, and of which the studiousness rests not on legend but on documentary evidence) acquired a vast stock of learning. He was, it is clear, thoroughly penetrated with the instincts, the hopes, and the ideas of the Renaissance in the form which it took in France, in England, and in Germany,—a form, that is to say, not merely humanist but full of aspirations for social and political improvement, and above all for a joyous, varied, and non-ascetic life. He had thoroughly convinced himself of the abuses to which monachism lent itself. Lastly, he had the spirit of lively satire and of willingness desipere in loco which frequently goes with the love of books. It is in the highest degree improbable that in beginning his great work he had any definite purpose or intention. The habit of burlesquing the romans d'aventures was no new one, and the form lent itself easily to the two literary exercises to which he was most disposed,—apt and quaint citation from and variation on the classics and satirical criticism of the life he saw around him. The immense popularity of the first two parts induced him to continue them, and by degrees (the genuineness of the fifth book at any rate in substance is here assumed) the possibility of giving the whole something like a consistent form and a regular conclusion presented itself to him. The voyage in particular allowed the widest licence of satirical allusion, and he availed himself of that licence in the widest sense. Here and there persons are glanced at, while the whole scenery of his birthplace and its neighbourhood is curiously worked in ; but for the most part the satire is typical rather than individual, and it is on the whole a rather negative satire. In only two points can Rabelais be said to be definitely polemic. He certainly hated the monkish system in the debased form in which it existed in his time ; he as certainly hated the brutish ignorance into which the earlier systems of education had suffered too many of their teachers and scholars to drop. At these two things he was never tired of striking, but elsewhere, even in the grim satire of the Chats fourres, he is the satirist proper rather than the reformer. It is in the very absence of any cramping or limiting purpose that the great merit and value of the book consist. It holds up an almost perfectly level and spotless mirror to the temper of the earlier Renaissance. The author has no universal medicine of his own (except Pantagruelism) to offer, nor has he anybody else’s universal medicine to attack. He ranges freely about the world, touching the laughable sides of things with kindly laughter, and every now and then dropping the risibile and taking to the rationale. It is not indeed possible to deny that in the Oracle of the Bottle, besides its merely jocular and fantastic sense, there is a certain “echo,” as it has been called, “of the conclusion of the preacher,” a certain acknowledgment of the vanity of things. But in such a book such a note could hardly be wanting unless the writer had been a fanatic, which he was not, or a mere voluptuary, which he was not, or a dullard, which he was least of all. It is, after all, little more than a suggestion, and is certainly not strengthened by anything in the body of the work. Rabelais is, in short, if he be read without prejudice, a humourist pure and simple, feeling often in earnest, thinking almost always in jest. He is distinguished from the two men who alone can be compared to him in character of work and force of genius combined—Lucian and Swift—by very marked characteristics. He is much less of a mere mocker than Lucian, and he is entirely destitute, even when he deals with monks or pedants, of the ferocity of Swift. He neither sneers nor rages; the rire immense which distinguishes him is altogether good-natured ; but he is nearer to Lucian than to Swift, and Lucian is perhaps the author whom it is most necessary to know in order to understand him rightly.
If this general view is correct (and it may at least claim to be founded on nothing but the reading of Rabelais himself without prejudice and with a tolerable apparatus) it will probably condition to some extent the answer to be given to the two minor questions stated above. The first is connected with the great blemish of Gargantua and Pantagruel,—their extreme coarseness of language and imagery. It is somewhat curious that some of those who claim Rabelais as an enemy of the supernatural in general have been the loudest to condemn this blemish, and that some of them have made the exceedingly lame excuse for him that it was a means of wrapping up his propaganda and keeping it and himself safe from the notice of the powers that were. This is not complimentary to Rabelais, and, except in some very small degree, it is not likely to be true. For as a matter of fact obscenity no less than impiety was charged against him by his ultra-orthodox enemies, and the obscenity no less than the supposed impiety gave them a handle against him before such bodies as the Sorbonne and the parliaments. As for the extreme theory of the anti-Rabelaisians, that Rabelais
practically non-existent. The counter testimony is, indeed, not very strong and still less detailed. But that is not the point. It is sufficient to say that there is absolutely nothing within the covers of Rabelais’s works incompatible with an orthodoxy which would be recognized as sufficient by Christendom at large, leaving out of the question those points of doctrine and practice on which Christians differ. Beyond this no wise man will go, and short of it hardly any unprejudiced man will stop.
The dates of the original editions of Rabelais’s works have been given where possible already. The earlier books were repeatedly reissued during the author’s life, and always with some correction. What may be called the first complete edition appeared in 1567 at Lyons, published by Jean Martin. It is computed that no less than sixty editions were printed before the close of the 16th century. A very considerable time, however, elapsed before the works were, properly speaking, edited. Huet devoted much pains to them, but his results were not made public. The first edition which calls for notice, except in a complete bibliography, is that of Le Duchat (Amsterdam, 1711). Le Duchat w׳as a very careful student, and on the whole a very efficient editor, being perhaps, of the group of students of old French at the beginning of the 18th century, which included La Monnoye and others, the most sober, critical, and accomplished. But at that time the knowledge of the period was scarcely far enough advanced. The next important date in the bibliography of Rabelais is 1823, in which year appeared the most elaborate edition of his work yet published, that of Esmangart and Johanneau (9 vols.), including for the first time the “Songes Drolatiques,” a spurious but early and not uninteresting collection of grotesque figure-drawings illustrating Gargantua and Pantagruel, and the second edition of M. de l’Aulnaye, containing a bad text but a useful glossary. From this time the editions have been very numerous. Among them may be mentioned those illustrated by Gustave Doré, first on a small scale (1854), afterwards more elaborately (1870) ; that of the Collection Didot by Burgaud des Marets and Rathery (1859, second edition 1870) ; the Bibliothèque Elzévir-ienne edition by MM. Lacour and A. de Montaiglon ; that of the Nouvelle Collection Jannet (seven small volumes, 1867-74), completed by M. Moland ; and lastly, the edition of M. Marty-Laveaux in the Collection Lemerre (1868-81), which is unfortunately not yet completed, but which when finished will undoubtedly be the handsomest, the most accurate, and the most complete in the scholarly sense yet published. At present the most really useful edition which combines a handsome form with cheapness is that of the Nouvelle Collection Jannet, though that of AIM. Burgaud des Alarets and Rathery is not to be despised. Commentaries on Rabelais, independent of editions, have been especially numerous of late years ; the work of MM. Reville, Noel, Alayrargues, and Gebhart may be mentioned. But the best recent book on the subject in French is that of M. J. Fleury (2 vols., Paris, 1876), which, though deficient in exactitude as to many points of detail, and sacrificing something to a desire of presenting Rabelais as a great social philosopher, is, on the whole, veiy sensible and complete.
Rabelais was very early popular in England. There are possible allusions to him in Shakespeare, and the current clerical notion of him is very unjustly adopted by Marston in the words “wicked Rabelais”; but Bacon described him better as the great jester of France, and a Scot, Sir Thomas Urquhart, translated the earlier books in 1653. This was not worthily completed till the luckless Motteux, or, as his compatriots call him, Le Alotteux, finished it with an extensive commentary. Criticism of a scattered kind on Rabelais in English is abundant, that of Coleridge being the most important, while the constant evidence of his influence in Southey’s Doctor is also noteworthy. But he was hardly treated as a whole before Air Besant’s book on the subject in the Foreign Classics for English Readers (1879), which the author has since followed up with Readings from Rabelais (1883). Air Besant has too readily adopted (probably from Alichelet) the apocryphal scandals as to the difference between Rabelais and the poets of the Pléiade, and is committed (it is not quite clear why) to a view of Rabelais as a non-Christian thinker and preacher for which it is impossible to discover solid justification. But otherwise his books form the best introduction possible for a modern English reader to this great author.    (G. SA. )
RABENER, Gottlieb Wilhelm (1714-1771), German satirist, was born in 1714 near Leipsic, and after studying law at that city entered the civil service, in which he continued for many years. He died on 22d March 1771. The papers which he published in the Bremer Beitràge were subsequently collected into a Sammlung satirischer Schriflen (2 vols., 1751), to which two volumes were afterwards added. The work passed through numerous editions. Rabener’s Freundschaftliche Briefe were published posthumously by C. F. Weisse with a biography. (See Germany, vol. x. p. 533.)
was a “dirty old blackguard” who liked filth and wallowed in it from choice, that hardly needs comment. His errors in this way are of course, looked at from an absolute standard, unpardonable. But judged relatively there are several, we shall not say excuses, but explanations of them. In the first place, the comparative indecency of Rabelais has been much exaggerated by persons unfamiliar with early French literature. The form of his book was above all tilings popular, and the popular French literature of the Middle Ages as distinguished from the courtly and literary literature, which was singularly pure, can hardly be exceeded in point of coarseness. The fabliaux, the early burlesque romances of the Audigicr class, the farces of the 15th century, equal (the grotesque iteration and amplification which is the note of Gargantua and Pantagruel being allowed for, and sometimes without that allowance) the coarsest passages of Rabelais. His coarseness, moreover, disgusting as it is, has nothing of the corruption of refined voluptuousness about it, and nothing of the sniggering indecency which disgraces men like Pope, like Voltaire, and like Sterne. It shows in its author a want of reverence, a want of decency in the proper sense, a too great readiness to condescend to the easiest kind of ludicrous ideas and the kind most acceptable at that time to the common run of mankind. The general taste having been considerably refined since, Rabelais has in parts become nearly unreadable, —the worst and most appropriate punishment for his faults. As for those who have tried to make his indecency an argument for his laxity in religious principle, that argument, like another mentioned previously, hardly needs discussion. It is notoriously false as a matter of experience. Rabelais could not have written as he has written in this respect and in others if he had been an earnestly pious person, taking heed to every act and word, and studious equally not to offend and not to cause offence. But no one in his senses would dream of claiming any such character for him.
This brings us to the last point—what his religious opinions were. He has been claimed as a freethinker of all shades, from undogmatic theism to atheism, and as a concealed Protestant. The last of these claims has now been very generally given up, and indeed Erasmus might quite as reasonably be claimed for the Reformation as Rabelais. Both disliked and attacked the more crying abuses of their church, and both at the time and since have been disliked and attacked by the more imprudent partisans of that church. But Rabelais, in his own way, held off from the Reformation even more distinctly than Erasmus did. The accusation of freethinking, if not of directly anti-Christian thinking, has always been more common and has recently found much favour. It is, however, remarkable that those who hold this opinion never give chapter and verse for it, and it may be said confidently that chapter and verse cannot be given. The sayings attributed to Rabelais which colour the idea (such as the famous “Je vais chercher un grand peut-être,” said to have been uttered on his death-bed) are, as has been said, purely apocryphal. In the book itself nothing of the kind is to be found. Perhaps the nearest approach to it is a jest at the Sorbonne couched in the Pauline phrase about “ the evidence of things not seen,” which the author removed from the later editions. But irreverences of this kind, as well as the frequent burlesque citations of the Bible, whether commendable or not, had been, were, have since been, and are common in writers whose orthodoxy is unquestioned ; and it must be remembered that the later Middle Age, which in many respects Rabelais represents almost more than he does the Renaissance, was, with all its unquestioning faith, singularly reckless and, to our fancy, irreverent in its use of the sacred words and images, which were to it the most familiar of all images and words. On the other hand, there are in the book, in the description of Gargantua’s and Pantagruel’s education, in the sketch of the abbey of Thelema, in several passages relating to Pantagruel, expressions which either signify a sincere and unfeigned piety of a simple kind or else are inventions of the most detestable hypocrisy. For these passages are not, like many to be found from the Renaissance to the end of the 18th century, obvious flags of truce to cover attacks,—mere bowings in the house of Rimmon to prevent evil consequences. There is absolutely no sign of the tongue in the cheek. They are always written in the author’s highest style, a style perfectly eloquent and unaffected ; they can only be interpreted (on the free-thinking hypothesis) as allegorical with the greatest difficulty and obscurity, and it is pretty certain that no one reading the book without a thesis to prove would dream of taking them in a nonnatural sense. It is not, indeed, to be contended that Rabelais was a man with whom religion was in detail a constant thought, that he had a very tender conscience or a very scrupulous orthodoxy. His form of religious sentiment was not evangelical or mystical, any more than it was ascetic or ceremonial or dogmatic. As regards one of the accepted doctrines of his own church, the excellence of the celibate life, of poverty, and of elaborate obedience to a rule, he no doubt was a strong dissident ; but the evidence that, as a Christian, he was unorthodox, that he was even an heretical or latitudinarian thinker in regard to those doctrines which the various Christian churches have in common, is not merely weak, it is
RABIES, a virulent disease, developed primarily in and peculiar to the canine species. Its occurrence in the same manner in other carnivorous animals, as the fox, wolf, hyæna, jackal, raccoon, badger, and skunk, has been asserted ; but there is every probability that it is originally a disease of the dog. It is communicated by inoculation to nearly all, if not all, warm-blooded creatures. The transmission from one animal to another only certainly takes place through inoculation with viruliferous matters. The malady is generally characterized at a certain stage by an irrepressible desire in the animal to act offensively with its natural weapons,—dogs and other carnivora attacking with their teeth, herbivora with their hoofs or horns, and birds with their beaks, when excited ever so slightly. In the absence of excitement the malady may run its course without any fit of fury or madness. Transmission of the disease to man produces Hydrophobia (q.v.) or dread of water, but in animals this symptom is rarely, if ever, observed. Rabies has been known from the very earliest times, and serious outbreaks have been recorded as occurring among dogs, wolves, and foxes in different parts of the world, particularly in western Europe and in North and South America. It is very frequent in Europe and appears to be on the increase. France, Germany, upper Italy, and Holland evidently suffer more than other Continental countries. England is becoming more frequently visited than before, though Scotland and Ireland are much less troubled than England. Spain is also sometimes severely scourged by it; but it is rare in Portugal. On the American continent it is well known, though on the eastern side of the Andes it is rarely if ever seen ; and it has never been heard of in Quito. In the West Indies —in Hispaniola, Jamaica, Domingo, Havana, Guadaloupe, and Hayti—as well as in Ceylon, it is frequently witnessed, and in 1813 it was introduced into Mauritius. It exists in North and South China, and has been reported in Cochin China and the kingdom of Anam. It is frequent and fatal in India ; and it is by no means rare in Syria, Palestine, and Turkey. It has been observed in the Hijâz in Arabia, and in North Africa and Egypt. Hydrophobia has been reported in Algeria; but Rohlfs asserts that it is unknown in Morocco. Gibraltar and Malta have been seriously invaded at times, and in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Russia, and Lapland it has been frequently seen in an epizootic form ; but it is not yet positively decided whether it exists in the Arctic regions. Steller and Erman assert that it is unknown in Kamchatka and Greenland; but Hayes (The Open Polar Sea) gives us the particulars of an outbreak of disease in South Greenland, which persisted for several years, caused him the loss of his sledge-dogs in 1870, and in 1872 extended from Smith’s Sound to Jakobshavn, threatening the utter extinction of the species, and with it the disappearance of the Eskimo. In most of its features it appeared to be rabies. The scourge is unknown, according to reliable evidence, in Australia and New Zealand, Tasmania, the Azores, and St Helena, as well as the island of Madeira ; it has not been seen at Sumatra, nor in East, South, and West Africa, nor in the island of Réunion.
Rabies (hydrophobia) is almost invariably fatal in man, and in the dog it nearly always terminates in death, though instances of recovery are recorded ; and it is extremely probable that in those cases in which people have been bitten by dogs and subsequently perished from hydrophobia, without the animals themselves offering any marked indications of illness either at the time or afterwards, these have been suffering from a mild form of the disease. It is also fatal to horses, cows, pigs, goats, and cats, but not to fowls, many of these recovering from accidental or experimental inoculation. Indeed rabies varies consider-
ably in intensity and in the character of its symptoms in different species of creatures. Pasteur has shown that, if it is transmitted from the diseased dog to the monkey and ultimately from monkey to monkey, at each transmission it becomes more attenuated in virulence, and remains so attenuated when passed again to the dog, rabbit, or guinea-pig, nor will it any longer produce the disease in dogs by hypodermic inoculations. Even inoculation by trepanning the cranium, which is so infallible in conveying rabies, may produce no result, the dog thenceforward being protected, and no longer capable of receiving the disease. On the other hand, the rabific virus is intensified when passed from rabbit to rabbit, or from guinea-pig to guinea-pig; and after several transmissions through the bodies of these animals it regains the maximum virulence which it possessed before it was enfeebled by being passed through the monkey. And the same thing holds with respect to the virulence of the ordinary rabid dog: when virus which is far from having reached its maximum intensity is conveyed to the rabbit, it requires to be passed through several of these animals before it reaches its maximum. It may be mentioned that the disease is not readily conveyed from man to animals, either accidentally or experimentally. The virus appears to exist in greatest intensity in the salivary glands and their secretion, in the brain and spinal cord, and perhaps to a lesser degree in the blood; doubtless it exists also in other fluids and tissues of the diseased animal. The principal alterations found in the bodies of rabid animals after death are located in the spinal cord, especially its upper portion, the medulla oblongata, certain parts of the brain, and the salivary glands, more particularly the submaxillary and sublingual,—less in the parotid. The stomach, kidneys, and other organs also present alterations which are more or less significant, especially the former, in which foreign bodies, as hair, wood, stones, earth, pieces of cloth, &c., are very frequently found. But the nature of the lesions, as well as the symptomatology, shows that the action of the poison is more especially exerted on the brain or spinal cord, though the eighth pair of nerves, and branches of the fifth and seventh pairs, are not involved in animals, as in man.
The period in which the symptoms of the disease become manifest, especially after accidental inoculations, as bites, varies extremely; indeed there is no disease in which the period of latency or incubation is more variable or pro״ tracted, this being sometimes limited to a few days or weeks and extending in rare cases to more than twelve months. In experimental inoculations the period is greatly shortened and the results more certain,—all the more so if the virus is introduced into the cranial cavity by trepanning, or into the blood-stream by intravenous inoculation. In accidental inoculations, as in wounds from rabid dogs, a certain but varying percentage escape. This immunity may be due to natural non-receptivity, to the wound not having been inflicted in a very vascular part, or to the saliva having been expended from frequent bites on other animals, or intercepted by clothing, hair, wool, &c.
Symptoms.—The disease has been divided into three stages or periods, and has also been described as appearing in at least two forms, according to the peculiarities of the symptoms. But, as a rule, one period of the disease does not pass suddenly into another, the transition being almost imperceptible; and the forms do not differ essentially from each other, but appear merely to constitute varieties of the same disease, due to the natural disposition of the animal, or other modifying circumstances. These forms have been designated true or furious rabies (Fr. rage vrai; Germ, rasende JVuth) and dumb rabies (Fr. rage mue ; Germ, stille Wuth).
The malady does not commence with fury and madness, but in a strange and anomalous change in the habits of the dog : it becomes dull, gloomy, and taciturn, and seeks to isolate itself in out-of-the-way places, retiring beneath chairs and to odd corners. But in its retirement it cannot rest: it is uneasy and fidgety, and no
sooner has it lain down than suddenly it jumps up in an agitated manner, walks backwards and forwards several times, again lies down and assumes a sleeping attitude, but has only maintained it for a few minutes when it is once more moving about. Again it retires to its corner, to the farthest recess it can find, and huddles itself up into a heap, with its head concealed beneath its chest and fore-paws. This state of continual agitation and inquietude is in striking contrast with its ordinary habits, and should therefore receive attention. Not unfrequently there are a few moments when the creature appears more lively than usual, and displays an extraordinary amount of affection. Sometimes there is a disposition to gather up straw, thread, bits of wood, &c., which are industriously carried away ; a tendency to lick anything cold, as iron, stones, &c., is also observed in many instances ; and there is also a desire evinced to lick other animals. Sexual excitement is also frequently an early symptom. At this period no disposition to bite is observed ; the animal is docile with its master and obeys his voice, though not so readily as before, nor with the same pleased countenance. There is something strange in the expression of its face, and the voice of its owner is scarcely able to make it change from a sudden gloominess to its usual animated aspect. These symptoms gradually become more marked : the restlessness and agitation increase. If on straw the dog scatters and pulls it about with its paws, and if in a room it scratches and tumbles the cushions or rugs on which it usually lies. It is incessantly on the move, rambling about, scratching the ground, sniffing in comers and at the doors, as if on the scent or seeking for something. It indulges in strange movements, as if affected by some mental influences, or a prey to hallucinations. When not excited by any external influence it will remain for a brief period perfectly still and attentive, as if watching something, or following the movements of some creature on the wall; then it will suddenly dart forward and snap at the vacant air, as if pursuing an annoying object, or endeavouring to seize a fly. At another time it throws itself, yelling and furious, against the wall, as if it heard threatening voices on the other side, or was bent on attacking an enemy. Nevertheless, the animal is still docile and submissive, for its master’s voice will bring it out of its frenzy. But the saliva is already virulent, and the excessive affection which it evinces at intervals, by licking the hands or face of those it loves, renders the danger very great should there be a wound or abrasion. Until a late period in the disease the master’s voice has a powerful influence over the animal. When it has escaped from all control and wanders erratically abroad, ferocious and restless, and haunted by horrid phantoms, the familiar voice yet exerts its influence, and it is rare indeed that it attacks its master.
There is no dread of water in the rabid dog ; the animal is generally thirsty, and if water be offered will lap it with avidity, and swallow it at the commencement of the disease. And, when, at a later period, the constriction about the throat—symptomatic of the disease—renders swallowing difficult, the dog will none the less endeavour to drink, and the lappings are as frequent and prolonged when deglutition becomes impossible. So little dread has the rabid dog of water that it will ford streams and swim rivers ; and when in the ferocious stage it will even do this in order to attack other creatures on the opposite side. The evidence on this head is overwhelming.
At the commencement of the disease the dog does not usually refuse to eat, and some animals are voracious to an unusual degree. But in a short time it becomes fastidious, only eating what it usually has a special predilection for. Soon, however, this gives place to a most characteristic symptom—either the taste becomes extremely depraved or the dog has a fatal and imperious desire to bite and ingest everything. The litter of its kennel, wool from cushions, carpets, stockings, slippers, wood, grass, earth, stones, glass, horse-dung, even its own feces and urine, or whatever else may come in its way, are devoured. On examination of the body of a dog which has died of rabies it is so common to find in the stomach a quantity of dissimilar and strange matters on which the teeth have been exercised that, if there was nothing known of the animal’s history, there would be strong evidence of its having been affected with the disease. When a dog, then, is observed to gnaw and eat suchlike matters, though it exhibits no tendency to bite, it should be suspected.
The mad dog does not usually foam at the mouth to any great extent at first. The mucus of the mouth is not much increased in quantity, but it soon becomes thicker, viscid, and glutinous, and adheres to the angles of the mouth, fauces, and teeth. It is at this period that the thirst is most ardent, and the dog sometimes furiously attempts to detach the saliva with its paws; and, if after a while it loses its balance in these attempts and tumbles over, there can no longer be any doubt as to the nature of the malady. There is another symptom connected with the mouth in that form of the disease named “dumb madness” which has frequently proved deceptive. The lower jaw drops in consequence of paralysis of its muscles, and the mouth remains open. The interior is diy from the air passing continually over it, and assumes a deep red
tint, somewhat masked by patches of dust or earth, which more especially adhere to the upper surface of the tongue and to the lips. The strange alteration produced in the dog’s physiognomy by its constantly open mouth and the dark colour of the interior is rendered still more characteristic by the dull, sad, or dead expression of the animal’s eyes. In this condition the creature is not very dangerous, because generally it could not bite if it tried,— indeed there does not appear to be much desire to bite in dumb madness; but the saliva is none the less virulent, and accidental inoculations with it, through imprudent handling, will prove as fatal as in the furious form. The mouth should not be touched, —numerous deaths having occurred through people thinking the dog had some foreign substance lodged in its throat, and thrusting their fingers down to remove it. The sensation of tightness which seems to exist at the throat causes the dog to act as if a bone were fixed between its teeth or towards the back of its mouth, and to employ its fore-pgws as if to dislodge it. This is a very deceptive symptom, and may prove equally dangerous if caution be not observed. Vomiting of blood or a chocolate-coloured fluid is witnessed in some cases, and has been supposed to be due to the foreign substances in the stomach, which abrade the lining membrane ; this, however, is not correct, as it has been observed in man.
The voice of the rabid dog is very peculiar, and so characteristic that to those acquainted with it nothing more is needed to prove the presence of the disease. Those who have heard it once or twice never forget its signification. Owing to the alterations taking place in the larynx the voice becomes hoarse, cracked, and stridulous, like that of a child affected with croup,—the “voix du coq,”as the French have it. A preliminary bark is made in a somewhat elevated tone and with open mouth ; this is immediately succeeded by five, six, or eight decreasing howls, emitted when the animal is sitting or standing, and always with the nose elevated, which seem to come from the depths of the throat, the jaws not coming together and closing the mouth during such emission, as in the healthy bark. This alteration in the voice is frequently the first observable indication of the malady, and should at once attract attention. In dumb madness the voice is frequently lost from the very commencement, —hence the designation.
The sensibility of the mad dog appears to be considerably diminished, and the animal appears to have lost the faculty of expressing the sensations it experiences: it is mute under the infliction of pain, though there can be no doubt that it still has peripheral sensation to some extent. Burning, beating, and wounding produce much less effect than in health, and the animal will even mutilate itself with its teeth. Suspicion, therefore, should always strongly attach to a dog which does not manifest a certain susceptibility to painful impressions and receives punishment without any cry or complaint. There is also reason for apprehension when a dog bites itself persistently in any part of its body. A rabid dog is usually stirred to fury at the sight of one of its own species ; this test has been resorted to by Bouley to dissipate doubts as to the existence of the disease when the diagnosis is othenvise uncertain. As soon as the suspected animal, if it is really rabid, finds itself in the presence of another of its species it at once assumes the aggressive, and, if allowed, will bite furiously. All rabid animals indeed become excited, exasperated, and furious at the sight of a dog, and attack it with their natural weapons, even the timid sheep when rabid butts furiously at the enemy before which in health it would have fled in terror. This inversion of sentiment is sometimes valuable in diagnosing the malady ; it is so common that it may be said to be present in every case of rabies. When, therefore, a dog, contrary to its habits and natural inclination, becomes suddenly aggressive to other dogs, it is time to take precautions.
In the large majority of instances the dog is inoffensive in the early period of the disease to those to whom it is familiar. It then flies from its home and either dies, is killed as “ mad,” or returns in a miserable plight, and in an advanced stage of the malady, when the desire to bite is irresistible. It is in the early stage that sequestration and suppressive measures are most valuable. The dogs which propagate the disease are usually those that have escaped from their owners. After two or three days, frequently in about twelve hours, more serious and alarming symptoms appear, ferocious instincts are developed, and the desire to do injury is irrepressible. The animal has an indefinable expression of sombre melancholy and cruelty. The eyes have their pupils dilated, and emit flashes of light when they are not dull and heavy ; they always appear so fierce as to produce terror in the beholder ; they are red and their sensibility to light is increased ; and wrinkles, which sometimes appear on the forehead, add to the repulsive aspect of the animal. If caged it flies at the spectator, emitting its characteristic howl or bark, and seizing the iron bars with its teeth, and if a stick be thrust before it this is grasped and gnawed. This fury is soon succeeded by lassitude, when the animal remains insensible to every excitement. Then all at once it rouses up again, and another paroxysm of fury commences. The first paroxysm is usually the most intense, and the fits vary in duration from some horns to a day, and even longer; they are ordinarily briefer in trained and
pet dogs than in those which are less domesticated, hut in all the remission is so complete after the first paroxysm that the animals appear to be almost well, if not in perfect health. During the paroxysms respiration is hurried and laboured, but tranquil during the remissions. There is an increase of temperature and the pulse is quick and hard. When the animal is kept in a dark place and not excited, the fits of fury are not observed. Sometimes it is agitated and restless in the manner already described. It never becomes really furious or aggressive unless excited by external objects,—the most potent of these, as has been said, being another dog, which, however, if it be admitted to its cage, it may not at once attack. The attacked animal rarely retaliates, but usually responds to the bites by acute yells, which contrast strangely with the silent anger of the aggressor, and tries to hide its head with its paws or beneath the straw. These repeated paroxysms hurry the course of the disease. The secretion and flowing of a large quantity of saliva from the mouth are usually only witnessed in cases in which swallowing has become impossible, the mouth being generally dry. At times the tongue, nose, and whole head appear swollen. Other dogs frequently shun one which is rabid, as if aware of their danger.
The rabid dog, if lodged in a room or kept in a house, is continually endeavouring to escape; and when it makes its escape it goes freely forward, as if impelled by some irresistible force. It travels considerable distances in a short time, perhaps attacking every living creature it meets,—preferring dogs, however, to other animals, and these to mankind ; cats, sheep, cattle, and horses are particularly liable to be injured. It attacks in silence, and never utters a snarl or a cry of anger; should it chance to be hurt in return it emits no cry or howl of pain. The degree of ferocity appears to be related to natural disposition and training. Some dogs, for instance, will only snap or give a slight bite in passing, while others will bite furiously, tearing the objects presented to them, or which they meet in their way, and sometimes with such violence as to injure their mouth and break their teeth, or even their jaws. If chained, they will in some cases gnaw the chain until their teeth are worn away and the bones laid bare. The rabid dog does not continue its progress very long. Exhausted by fatigue and the paroxysms of madness excited in it by the objects it meets, as well as by hunger, thirst, and also, no doubt, by the malady, its limbs soon become feeble; the rate of travelling is lessened and the walk is unsteady, while its drooping tail, head inclined towards the ground, open mouth, and protruded tongue (of a leaden colour or covered with dust) give the distressed creature a very striking and characteristic physiognomy. In this condition, however, it is much less to be dreaded than in its early fits of fury, since it is no longer capable or desirous of altering its course or going out of its way to attack an animal or a man not immediately in the path. It is very probable that its fast-failing vision, deadened scent, and generally diminished perception prevent its being so readily impressed or excited by surrounding objects as it previously was. To each
Saroxysm, which is always of short duration, there succeeds a egree of exhaustion as great as the fits have been violent and oft repeated. This compels the animal to stop; then it shelters itself in obscure places—frequently in ditches by the roadside—and lies there in a somnolescent state for perhaps hours. There is great danger, nevertheless, in disturbing the dog at this period; for when roused from its torpor it has sometimes sufficient strength to inflict a bite. This period, which may be termed the second stage, is as variable in its duration as the first, but it rarely exceeds three or four days. The above-described phenomena gradually merge into those of the third or last period, when symptoms of paralysis appear, which are speedily followed by death. During the remission in the paroxysms these paralytic symptoms are more particularly manifested in the hind limbs, which appear as if unable to support the animal’s weight, and cause it to stagger about; or the lower jaw becomes more or less drooping, leaving the parched mouth partially open. Emaciation rapidly sets in, and the paroxysms diminish in intensity, while the remissions become less marked. The physiognomy assumes a still more sinister and repulsive aspect; the hair is dull and erect; the flanks are retracted ; the eyes lose their lustre and are buried in the orbits, the pupil being dilated, and the cornea dull and semi-opaque ; very often, even at an early period, the eyes squint, and this adds still more to the terrifying appearance of the poor dog. The voice, if at all heard, is husky, the breathing laborious, and the pulse hurried and irregular. Gradually the paralysis increases, and the posterior extremities are dragged as if the animal’s back were broken, until at length it becomes general; it is then the prelude to death. Or the dog remains lying in a state of stupor, and can only raise itself with difficulty on the fore-limbs when greatly excited. In this condition it may yet endeavour to bite at objects within its reach. At times convulsions of a tetanic character appear in certain muscles ; at other times these are general. A comatose condition ensues, and the rabid dog, if permitted to die naturally, perishes, in the great majority of cases, from paralysis and asphyxia.
In dumb madness there is paralysis of the lower jaw, which imparts a curious and very characteristic physiognomy to the dog; the voice is also lost, and the animal can neither eat nor drink. In this condition the creature remains with its jaw pendent and the mouth consequently wide open, showing the flaccid or swollen tongue covered with brownish matter, and a stringy gelatinous-looking saliva lying between it and the lower lip and coating the fauces, which sometimes appear to be inflamed. Though the animal is unable to swallow fluids, the desire to drink is nevertheless intense ; for the creature will thrust its face into the vessel of water in futile attempts to obtain relief, even until the approach of death. Water maybe poured down its throat without inducing a paroxysm. The general physiognomy and demeanour of the poor creature inspire the beholder with pity rather than fear. The symptoms due to cerebral excitement are less marked than in the furious form of the disease; the agitation is not so considerable, and the restlessness, tendency to run away, and desire to bite are nearly absent; generally the animal is quite passive. Not !infrequently one or both eyes squint, and it is only when very much excited that the dog may contrive to close its mouth. Sometimes there is swelling about the pharynx and the neck ; when the tongue shares in this complication it hangs out of the mouth. In certain cases there is a catarrhal condition of the membrane lining the nasal cavities, larynx, and bronchi; sometimes the animal testifies to the existence of abdominal pain, and the faeces are then soft or fluid. The other symptoms—such as the rapid exhaustion and emaciation, paralysis of the posterior limbs towards the termination of the disease, as well as the rapidity with which it runs its course—are the same as in the furious form.
The simultaneous occurrence of furious and dumb madness is frequently observed in packs of fox-hounds.    Dumb madness
differs, then, from the furious type in the paralysis of the lower jaw, which hinders the dog from biting, save in very exceptional circumstances; the ferocious instincts are also in abeyance ; and there is no tendency to aggression. It has been calculated that from 15 to 20 per cent, of rabid dogs have this particular form of the disease. Puppies and young dogs chiefly have furious rabies.
These are the symptoms of rabies in the dog; but it is not likely, nor is it necessary, that they will all be present in every case. In other species the symptoms differ more or less from those manifested by the dog, but they are generally marked by a change in the manner and habits of the creatures affected, with strong indications of nervous disturbance, in the majority of species amounting to ferociousness and a desire to injure, timid creatures becoming bold and aggressive. (See Fleming, Rabies and Hydrophobia.)
In order to prevent injury from this disease in countries in which it is prevalent owners of dogs should be well acquainted with its symptoms, especially the premonitory ones j of these a change in the demeanour and habits of the animal—unusual irritability, depraved appetite, restlessness, and a tendency to wander from home—are the most marked. One of the chief police measures is diminution in the number of useless dogs. This is best enforced by the imposition of a dog-tax or licence, which may be large or small in proportion to the number of dogs or the urgency of the case. ^0n the licence-paper the chief symptoms of the malady should be described so as to warn dog-owners. Every dog should wear a collar with a brass plate, on which are inscribed the name and address of the owner as well as a police register-number stamped thereon, or some particular mark affixed by the police or inland revenue authorities, for purposes of identification ; all stray dogs without a collar of this description ought to be captured, and sold or destroyed after three or more days if not claimed. Blunting the canine and incisor teeth of dogs has also been proposed as a precautionary measure. All dogs suspected of rabies should be captured and, when the existence of the disease is confirmed, destroyed. Rabid dogs should be destroyed at once. It is also well as a precautionary measure to kill dogs or cats which have been bitten or “ worried ” by rabid animals. During an outbreak of rabies all dogs should be securely muzzled and if possible led. It is a great mistake to destroy immediately suspected dogs which have bitten people ; they should be kept until their condition is ascertained, as, if they are found to be healthy, this will greatly relieve the mind of those who have been bitten. Suspected dogs should be carefully kept under observation and frequently inspected by a veterinary surgeon or other competent per-
son. All wounds inflicted by strange or suspected dogs should be immediately attended to and treated by suction, washing, and expression, until proper surgical treatment can be adopted. In those countries in which the disease has not yet appeared, in order to prevent its admission, the importation of dogs should be forbidden or an extended period of quarantine imposed.
We may here allude to the results of Pasteur’s experiments in rabies. By passing modified virus into the bodies of dogs he has discovered that they are protected from an attack of the disease—are, in fact, rendered refractory to rabies. For instance, rabific virus is obtained from a rabbit which has died after inoculation by trepanning, and after a period of incubation longer by some days than the shortest period in these animals, which is invariably between seven and eight days subsequent to inoculation with the most active virus. The virus of the rabbit in the period of long incubation is inoculated by trepanning into a second rabbit, the virus of this into a third; and on each occasion the virus, which becomes more and more potent, is inoculated into a dog. The latter at last becomes capable of supporting what would be to other dogs a deadly virus, and is entirely proof against rabies either by intravenous inoculation, by trepanning, or by the virus of a rabid animal. By using the blood of rabid animals in certain determinate conditions Pasteur has been able to greatly simplify the operations of inoculation, and to render dogs most decidedly refractory to the malady. There is great importance attached to the suggestion that now, and until rabies has been extinguished altogether by inoculation, it may be possible to prevent development of the disease after bites from rabid dogs, owing to the long duration of the incubative period. Admitting that rabies is produced by the bite of rabid animals only, and that Pasteur’s inoculations are really protective, it is suggested that a law compelling all dogs to be so protected would in the end extirpate the disease. But certain important points have yet to be decided before any definite conclusion can be arrived at.    (g. fl.)
RABUTIN, Roger de, Comte de Bussy (1618-1693), commonly known as Bussy-Rabutin (and for shortness Bussy), is perhaps the most characteristic figure among the lesser noblesse of France in the 17th century, as La Rochefoucauld is among the greater. Bussy, however, except in point of gallantry and literary power, chiefly illustrated the evil sides of the character. He represented a family of distinction and age in Burgundy (see Sevign¿, Madame de), and his father was L6onor de Rabutin, a soldier of merit and a man of position, holding the lieutenant-generalship of the province of Nivernais. Bussy-Rabutin (it is perhaps advisable to add the family name to distinguish him from the hardly less famous Bussy d’Amboise) was born in 1618. He was the third son, but by the death of his elder brothers became the representative of the family. He entered the army when he was only sixteen and fought through several campaigns, succeeding his father in the office of “ mestre de camp.” But he very early distinguished himself in other ways than that of military service, and in 1641 was sent to the Bastille by Richelieu for some months as a punishment for neglect of his duties in running after his ladyloves. In 1643 he married a cousin, Gabrielle de Toulongeon, who seems to have been fond of him, and for a short time he left the army. But in 1644 he again bought a commission and for some years was closely connected with the great CondA His wife died, and he became more famous, or at least more notorious, than ever by an attempt to abduct Madame de Miramion, a rich widow. This affair was with some difficulty made up and Bussy afterwards married Louise de
Rouville. When the Fronde broke out he, like others, went from party to party, but finally passed to the royal side. He fought with some distinction both in the civil war and on foreign service, and in 1655 he went to serve under Turenne in Flanders. He served there for several campaigns and distinguished himself at the battle of the Dunes and elsewhere ; but he did not get on well with his general, and his quarrelsome disposition, his overweening vanity, and his habit of composing libellous chansons by degrees made him the enemy of most persons of position both in the army and at court. In the year 1659 he fell into disgrace for having taken part in an orgy or series of orgies at Roissy near Paris during Holy Week, which caused great scandal, and shortly afterwards he began to compose for the amusement of his mistress, Madame de Montglas, his famous Histoire Amoureuse des Gaules. This book—a series of sketches of the chief ladies of the court, not without wit, but much less remarkable for wit than for ill nature and licence—circulated freely in manuscript and had numerous spurious sequels. One of these stung the king, and Bussy was in 1665 sent to the Bastille, where he remained for more than a year, and from which he was only liberated on condition of retiring to his estates. Here he abode in what was then called exile for seventeen years. He was then restored to a modified degree of royal favour, but never received any great mark of it, and died in 1693.
Although a man of considerable abilities, Bussy had very little in his character that was either amiable or estimable. Despite his extravagant pride of birth and rank, there is much reason for acquiescing in the verdict pronounced on him (by an anonymous contemporary apparently), that he was “a coxcomb, who never, either at court or in camp, lost the taste for bad company and the air of a rustic ” ; his bravery was undoubted, but he seems to have much overrated his own military ability. He libelled friends and foes alike, and any toleration which might be extended to his innumerable gallantries is lessened by his incorrigible habit of telling tales and his spiteful scandal - mongering against women who had left him or whom he had left. He was, however, possessed of much literary power. The Histoire Amoureuse is in its most striking passages merely adapted from Petronius, and, except in a few portraits, its attractions are chiefly those of the scandalous chronicle. But his Mémoires, published after his death, are extremely lively and characteristic, and his voluminous correspondence yields in variety and interest to few collections of the kind, except Madame de Sévigné’s, who indeed is represented in it to a great extent, and whose letters first appeared in it. The literary and historical student, therefore, owes Bussy some thanks. But it is impossible not to see that he united some of the worst characteristics of an aristocracy on the way to decadence—relaxed morals, a glaring indifference to duty and to all motives but self-interest, insolence in prosperity, servility in adverse circumstances, jealousy of others more favoured than himself.
The best edition of the Histoire Amoureuse des Gaules is that of Boiteau and Livet in the Bibliothèque Elzévirienne (4 vols., Paris, 1856-76), of the Mémoires and Correspondance that of Lalanne (8 vols., Paris, 1857-59). Bussy wrote other things, of which the most important, his Genealogy of the Rabutin Family, remained in M8. till 1867.
RACCOON. This name,@@1 familiar to all readers of works on American natural history, is borne by a small carnivore belonging to that section of the order which contains the bears, weasels, badgers, &c. (see Mammalia, vol. xv. p. 440). The raccoon resembles in many respects a diminutive bear, both in its general build and in the proportions of its skull and teeth, which last are broad, blunt, and rounded, and more suited for a semi-vegetarian than for an exclusively animal diet. Its other more important zoological characters, with an account of its systematic position, have been already noted in the article just referred to. The common North-American raccoon (Procyon lotor) is a clumsy thickly-built animal about the size of a badger, with a coat of long coarse greyish brown hairs, short ears, and a bushy black and white ringed tail. Its
@@@1 A corruption of the North-American Indian “arrathkune” or “ arathcone. ” The French raton or raton laveur, German Waschbar, and other European names are derived from a curious habit the raccoon has of dipping or washing its food in water before eating it.
range extends over the whole of the United States, and stretches on the west northwards to Alaska and southwards
well into Central America, where it attains its maximum size. The following notes on the habits of the raccoon are extracted from Dr C. Hart Merriam’s charming work on the mammals of the Adirondacks (N. E. New York).
“Raccoons are omnivorous beasts and feed upon mice, small birds, birds’ eggs, turtles and their eggs, frogs, fish, crayfish, molluscs, insects, nuts, fruits, maize, and sometimes poultry. Excepting alone the bats and flying-squirrels, they are the most strictly nocturnal of all our mammals, and yet I have several times seen them abroad on cloudy days. They haunt the banks of ponds and streams, and find much of their food in these places, such as crayfish, mussels, and fish, although they are unable to dive and pursue the latter under water, like the otter and mink. They are good swimmers and do not hesitate to cross livers that lie in their path. . . . The raccoon hibernates during the severest part of the winter, retiring to its nest rather early, and appearing again in February or March, according to the earliness or lateness of the season. It makes its home high up in the hollow of some large tree, preferring a dead limb to the trunk itself. It does little in the way of constructing a nest, and from four to six young are commonly born at a time, generally early in April in this region. The young remain with the mother about a year.”
The South-American species, Procyon cancrivorus, the crab-eating raccoon, is very similar to P. lotor, but differs by its much shorter fur, larger size, proportionally more powerful teeth, and other minor characters. It extends over the whole of South America, as far south as the Rio Negro, and is very common in all suitable localities. Its habits are similar to those of the North-American species.
RACHEL (1820 or 1821-1858), the stage name of a French actress, whose true name was Elizabeth Félix, and who was the daughter of Jacob Félix and Esther Haya, Alsatian Jews, who travelled on foot through France as pedlars. She was born according to one account on 24th March 1820, according to another on 28th February of the following year, in a small inn in Mumpf in the canton of Aargau, Switzerland. At Rheims she and her eldest sister Sophia, afterwards known as Sarah, joined a troupe of Italian children who made their living by singing in the cafés, Sarah taking part in the singing and Elizabeth, then only four years of age, collecting the coppers. In 1830 they came to Paris, where they sang in the streets, Rachel giving such patriotic songs as the Parisienne and the Marseillaise with a rude but precocious energy which evoked special admiration and an abundant shower of coppers. Choron, a famous teacher of singing, was so impressed with the talents of the two sisters that he undertook to give them gratuitous instruction, and after his death in 1833 they were received into the Conservatoire.
Sophia gained a medal for singing, but Rachel at an early period gave her chief attention to elocution and acting. Her voice, though deep and powerful, was at first hard and inflexible ; and her thin and meagre appearance conveyed an impression of insignificance, which her plain features and generally impassive manner tended to confirm. It was only her remarkable intelligence that encouraged her instructors to persevere ; but even they did not recognize her talents as exceptional. She made her first appearance at the Gymnase in the Vendéenne in 1837 with only mediocre success. On 12th June of the following year she succeeded, after great difficulty, in making a début at the Théâtre Français, appearing as Camille in Les Horaces, when, attention having been directed to her remarkable genius by Jules Janin in the Débats and Madame de Girardin in the Presse, it at once received universal recognition. Her range of characters was limited, but within this range she was unsurpassable. It was especially in the tragedies of Racine and Corneille that she excelled, and more particularly in the impersonation of evil or malignant passion. By careful training her originally hard and harsh voice had become flexible and melodious, and its low and muffled notes under the influence of passion possessed a thrilling and penetrating quality that was irresistible. When excited her plain features became transfigured by the glow of genius, and in her impersonations of evil and malignant emotions there was a majesty and dignity which fascinated whilst it repelled. Her facial elocution was unsurpassable in variety and expressiveness, whilst the grace of her gestures and the marvellous skill with which she varied her tones with every shade of thought and emotion were completely beyond criticism. It was, however, the predominance of intellect and will rather than the perfection of her art that most specially characterized her impersonations and conferred on them their unique excellence. She appeared successively as Émilic in Cinna, Hermione in Andromaque, Ériphile in Iphigénie, Monime in Mithridate, and Aménaïde in Tancrède ; but it was in Phèdre, which she first played on 21st January 1843, that her peculiar gifts were most strikingly manifested. In modern plays she created the characters of Judith and Cleopatra in the tragedies of Madame de Girardin, but her most successful appearance was in 1849 in Adrienne Lecouvreur. In 1840 she visited London, where her interpretations of Corneille and Racine were the sensation of the season. She also played successively in the principal capitals of Europe. In 1855 she made a tour in the United States with comparatively small success. This was, however, after her powers through continued ill-health had begun to deteriorate. She died of consumption at Cannet, near Cannes, on 4th January 1858.
RACINE, a city of the United States, the county seat of Racine county, Wisconsin, lies 23 miles by rail south of Milwaukee, and occupies a plateau projecting for about 6 miles into Lake Michigan, 40 feet above its level. The town is the seat of extensive manufacturing industries— producing carriages, waggons, ploughs, threshing-machines, portable steam-engines, fanning-mills, leather, blinds and sashes, school furniture, wire, linseed oil, baskets, &c.— is engaged in the lumber trade and general commerce, and contains two city hospitals, an orphan asylum, Racine (Episcopalian) college founded in 1852, and a Roman Catholic academy. The harbour is open to vessels drawing 15 feet. Racine, first settled in 1834, was incorporated in 1848, four years after the first steamer had entered the port. The population was 7822 in 1860, 9880 in 1870, and 16,031 in 1880.
RACINE, Jean (1639-1699), the most equal and accomplished, if not the greatest, tragic dramatist of France, was born at La Ferté Milon in the old duchy of Valois in the month of December 1639. The 20th and the two follow-
ing days of the month are variously given as his birthday ; all that is certain is that he was christened on the 22d. The ceremony was at that time often, though not invariably, performed on the day of birth. Racine belonged to a family of the upper bourgeoisie, which had indeed been technically ennobled some generations earlier and bore the punning arms of a rat and a swan (rat, cygne). The poet himself subsequently dropped the rat. His family were connected with others of the same or a slightly higher station in La Ferté and its neighbourhood,—the Des Moulins, the Sconins, the Yitarts, all of whom appear in Racine’s life. His mother was Jeanne Sconin. His father, of the same name as himself, was only four-and-twenty at the time of the poet’s birth. He seems to have been a solicitor (;procureur) by profession, and held, as his father, the grandfather of the dramatist, had done, the office of controleur au grenier à sel. Racine was the eldest child of his parents. Little more than a year afterwards his sister Marie was born and his mother died. Jean Racine the elder married again, but three months later he himself died and the stepmother is never heard of in connexion with the poet or his sister. They were left without any provision, but their grandparents, Jean Racine the eldest and Marie des Moulins, were still living, and took charge of them. These grandparents had a daughter, Agnes, who figures in Racine’s history. She was a nun of Port Royal under the style of Mère de Sainte Thècle, and the whole family had strong Jansenist leanings. Jean Racine the eldest died in 1649, and, apparently as a consequence of this, the poet was sent to the Collège de Beauvais. This (which was the grammar-school of the town of that name, and not the famous Collège de Beauvais at Paris) was intimately connected with Port Royal, and to this latter place Racine was transferred in November 1655.    His special masters there were Nicole and Le
Maître. The latter, in an extant letter written to his pupil during one of the gusts of persecution which Port Royal constantly suffered, speaks of himself as “votre papa ” ; the manner in which Racine repaid this affection will be seen shortly. It is evident from documents that he was a very diligent student both at Beauvais and Port Royal. He wrote verse both in Latin and French, and his Port Royal odes, which it has been the fashion with the more fanatical admirers of his later poetry to ridicule, are far from despicable. They show the somewhat garrulous nature-worship of the Pléiade tempered by the example of the earlier school of Malherbe. He seems also to have made at least a first draft of his version of the breviary hymns ; some, if not most, of a considerable mass of translations from the classics and annotations on them must also date from this time. Racine stayed at Port Royal for three years, and left it, aged nearly nineteen, in October 1658. He was then entered at the Collège d’Harcourt and boarded with his second cousin, Nicolas Vitart, steward of the duke of Luynes. Later, if not at first, he lived in the Hôtel de Luynes itself. It is to be observed that his Jansenist surroundings’ continued with him here, for the duke of Luynes was a severe Port Royalist. It is, however, clear from Racine’s correspondence, which as we have it begins in 1660 and is for some years very abundant and interesting, that he was not at all of an austere disposition at this time. His chief correspondent is a certain young abbé Le Vasseur, who seems to have been by no means seriously given. The letters are full of verse-making and of other diversions ; a certain Mademoiselle Lucrèce, who seems to have been both amiable and literary, is very frequently mentioned, neither is she the only one of her sex who appears. Occasionally the liveliness of the letters passes the bounds of strict decency, though there is nothing very shocking in them.
Those to Madame (or, as the habit of the time called her, Mademoiselle) Yitart are free from anything of this kind, while they are very lively and pleasant. It does not appear that Racine read much philosophy, as he should have done, but he occasionally did some business in superintending building operations at Chevreuse, the duke’s country house. He would seem, however, to have been already given up irrevocably to literature. This by no means suited the views of his devout relations at Port Royal, and he complains in one of his letters that an unlucky sonnet on Mazarin had brought down on him “ excommunications sur excommunications.” But he had much more important works in hand than sonnets. The marriage of Louis XIV. ־was the occasion of an ambitious ode, “La Nymphe de la Seine,” which was submitted before publication to Chapelain, the too famous author of the Pucelle. Chapelain’s fault was not ill-nature, and he made many suggestions (including the very pertinent one that Tritons were not usually found in rivers), which Racine duly adopted. Nor did the ode bound his ambitions, for he finished one piece, Amasie, and undertook another, Les Amours d’Ovide, for the theatre. The first, however, was rejected by the actors of the Marais, and it is not certain that the other was ever finished or offered to those of the Hôtel de Bourgogne. Racine’s letters show that he was intimate with more than one actress at this time ; he also made acquaintance with La Fontaine, and the foundations at any rate of the legendary “ society of four ” (Boileau, La Fontaine, Molière, and Racine) were thus laid.
His relations were pretty certainly alarmed by this very pardonable worldliness, though a severe expostulation with him for keeping company with the abominable actors is perhaps later in date. Allusions in a letter to his sister leave little doubt of this. Racine was accordingly disturbed in his easy-going life at Paris. In November 1661 he went to Uzès in Languedoc to live with his uncle the Père Sconin, vicar-general of that diocese, where it was hoped that Sconin would be able to secure a benefice for his nephew. It is certain that he was not slack in endeavouring to do this, but his attempts were in vain, and perhaps the church did not lose as much as the stage gained. Racine was at Uzès for an uncertain time. All that is known is that he was back in Paris before the end of 1663. His letters from Uzès to La Fontaine, to Le Vasseur, and others are in much the same strain as before, but there is here and there a marked tone of cynicism in them. One passage in particular, in which he tells how he was disenchanted with a damsel of Uzès, has an unpleasantly Swiftian touch about it. Once back in Paris, he gave himself up entirely to letters with a little courtier-sliip. An ode on the recovery of Louis XIV. from a slight illness probably secured him the promise of a pension, of which he speaks to his sister in the summer of 1664, and on 2 2d August he actually received it. It is uncertain whether this pension is identical with “gratifications” which we know that Racine for some years received and which were sometimes eight and sometimes six hundred livres. It would seem not, as one of these gratifications had been allotted to him the year before he so wrote to his sister. All this shows that he had already acquired some repute as a promising novice in letters, though he had as yet done nothing substantive. The ode in which he thanked the king for his presents, “ La Renommée,” is said to have introduced him to Boileau, to whose censorship there is no doubt that he owed much, if not everything; and from this date, November 1663, the familiarity of “ the four ” undoubtedly existed in full force. Racine was at the time the least distinguished, but he rapidly equalled, if not the merit, the reputation of his friends. Unfortunately it is precisely at this date that his corre-
spondence ceases, and it is not renewed till after the close of his brief but brilliant career as a dramatist (Esther and Athalie excepted). This is the more to be regretted in that the most disputable events of Racine’s life as well as the greater part of his literary work fall within this silent period. His strange behaviour to Molière, his virulent attack on his masters and friends of Port Royal, and the sudden change by which, after the failure of Phèdre and for no clearly expressed cause, a man of pleasure and an active literary worker became a sober domestic character of almost ostentatiously religious habits, and abstained from almost all but official work, are unillumined by any words of his own. From this time forward the gossip of the period and the Life by his son Louis are the chief sources of information. Unfortunately Louis Racine, though a man of some ability and of unimpeached character, was only six years old when his father died, and had no direct knowledge. Still his account represents family papers and traditions and seems to have been carefully, as it is certainly in the main impartially, written. From other sources—notably Boileau, Brossette, and Yalincourt— a good deal of pretty certainly authentic information is obtainable, and there exists a considerable body of correspondence between Boileau and the poet during the last ten years of Racine’s life.
The first but the least characteristic of the dramas by which Racine is known, La Thébaide, was finished by the end of 1663, and on Friday 20th June 1664 it was played by Molière’s company at the Palais Royal theatre. Some editors assert that Molière himself acted in it, but the earliest account of the cast we have, and that is sixty years after date, omits his name, though those of Madeleine Béjard and Mademoiselle de Brie occur. There is a tradition, supported by very little evidence, that Molière suggested the subject ; on the other hand, Louis Racine distinctly says that his father wrote most of the play at Uzès before he knew Molière. Racine’s own letters, which cover the period of composition, though not that of representation, give little help in deciding this not very important question, except that it appears from them that the play was designed for the rival theatre, and that “La Déhanchée,” Racine’s familiar name for Mademoiselle de Beauchâteau, with whom he was intimate, was to play Antigone. The play itself is by far the weakest of Racine’s works. He has borrowed much from Euripides and not a little from Rotrou ; and in his general style and plan he has as yet struck out no great variation from Corneille. We have very little intelligence about the reception of the piece. It was acted twelve times during the first month, which was for the period a very fair success, and was occasionally revived during the year following.
This is apparently the date of the pleasant picture of the four friends which La Fontaine draws in his Psyche, Racine figuring as Acante, “qui aimait extrêmement les jardins, les fleurs, les ombrages.” Various stories, more or less mythical, also belong to this period ; the best authenticated of them contributes to the documents for Racine’s unamiable temper. He had absolutely no reason to complain of Chapelain, who had helped him with criticism, obtained royal gifts for him, and, in a fashion, started him in the literary career, yet he helped in composing the lampoon of Chapelain décoiffé. The sin would not be unpardonable if it stood alone, but unluckily a much graver one followed.
We have no definite details as to Racine’s doings during the year 1664, but in February 1665 he read at the Hôtel de Nevers before La Rochefoucauld, Madame de la Fayette, Madame de Sévigné, and other scarcely less redoubtable judges the greater part of his second acted play, Alexandre le Grand, or, as Pomponne (who tells the fact) calls it, Parus.
This was a frequent kind of preliminary advertisement at the time, and it seems, as we find from the rhymed gazettes, to have been successful. It was anxiously expected by the public, and Molière’s company played it on 4th December,—Monsieur, his wife Henrietta of England, and many other distinguished persons being present. The gazetteer Subligny vouches for its success, and the still more certain testimony of the accounts of the theatre shows that the receipts were good and, what is more, steady. But a fortnight afterwards Alexandre was played, “de complot avec M. Racine,” says La Grange, by the rival actors (who had four days before performed it in private) at the Hôtel de Bourgogne. A vast amount of ink has been spilt on this question, but no one has produced any valid justification for Racine. That the piece failed at the Palais Royal is demonstrably false, and as this is stated in the earliest attempt to excuse Racine, and the only one made in his lifetime, it is pretty clear that his case was very weak. His son simply says that he was “mécontent des acteurs,” which indeed is self-evident. It is certain that Molière and he ceased to be friends in consequence of this proceeding ; and that Molière was in fault no one who has studied the character of the two men, no one even who considers the probabilities of the case, will easily believe. If, however, Alexandre was the occasion of showing the defects of Racine’s character as a man, it raised him vastly in public estimation as a poet. He was now for the first time proposed as a serious rival to Corneille. There is a story, which a credible witness vouches for as Racine’s own, that he read the piece to the author of the Cid and asked his verdict. Corneille praised the piece highly, but not as a drama, “ Il l’assurait qu’il n’était pas propre a la poésie dramatique.” There is no reason for disbelieving this, for the character of Alexander could not fail to shock Corneille, and he was notorious for not mincing his words. Nor can it be denied that Racine might have been justly hurt, though with a man of more amiable temper the slight would hardly have caused the settled antagonism to Corneille which he displayed. The contrast between the two even at this early period was accurately apprehended and put by Saint Evremond in his masterly Dissertation sur VAlexandre, but this was not published for a year or two. To this day it is the best criticism of the faults of Racine, though not, it may be, of the merits, which had not yet been fully seen. It may be added that in the preface of the printed play the poet showed the extreme sensitiveness to criticism which perhaps excuses, and which certainly often accompanies, a tendency to criticize others. These defects of character showed themselves still more fully in another matter. The Port Royalists, as has been said, detested the theatre, and in January 1666 Nicole, their chief writer*, spoke in one of his Lettres sur Visionnaires of dramatic poets as “empoisonneurs publics.” There was absolutely no reason why Racine should fit this cap on his own head ; but he did so, and published immediately a letter to the author. It is very smartly written, and if Racine had contented himself with protesting against the absurd exaggeration of the decriers of the stage there would have been little harm done. But he filled the piece with personalities, telling an absurd story of Mère Angélique Arnauld’s supposed intolerance, drawing a ridiculous picture of Le Maître (a dead man and his own special teacher and friend), and sneering savagely at Nicole himself. The latter made no reply, but two lay adherents of Port Royal took up the quarrel with more zeal than discretion or ability. Racine wrote a second pamphlet as bitter and personal as the first, but less amusing, and was about to publish it when fortunately Boileau, who had been absent from Paris, returned and protested against the publication. It remained accordingly unprinted till after the author’s death, as well as a
preface to both which he had prepared with a view to publishing them together. In this respect Boileau was certainly Racine’s good angel, for no one has ventured to excuse the tone of these letters. The best excuse for them is that they represent the accumulated resentment arising from a long course of “ excommunications.”
After this disagreeable episode Racine’s life for ten years and more becomes simply the history of his plays, if we except his liaisons with the actresses Mademoiselle du Parc and Mademoiselle de Champmeslé (which are undoubted, though there is not much to be said about them) and his election to the Academy on 17th July 1673. Mademoiselle du Parc (Marquise de Gorla) was no very great actress, but was very beautiful, and she had previously captivated Molière. Racine induced her to leave the Palais Royal company and join the Hôtel. She died in 1668, and long afterwards the infamous Voisin accused Racine of having poisoned her. Mademoiselle de Champmeslé was plain and stupid, but an admirable actress and apparently very attractive in some way, for not merely Racine but Charles de Sévigné and many others adored her. She was cruel to none, but for five years before his marriage Racine seems to have been her amant en titre. Long afterwards, just before his own death, he heard of her mortal illness and speaks of her to his son without a flash of tenderness.
The series of his dramatic triumphs began with Andro-maque, and this play may perhaps dispute with Phèdre and Athalie the title of his masterpiece. It is much more uniformly good than Phèdre, and the character of Hermione is the most personally interesting on the French tragic stage. It is said that the first representation of Andromaque was on 10th November 1667, in public and by the actors of the Hôtel de Bourgogne, but the first contemporary mention of it by the gazettes, prose and verse, is on the 17 th, as performed in the queen’s apartment. Perrault, by no means a friendly critic as far as Racine is concerned, says that it made as much noise as the Cid, and so it ought to have done. Whatever may be thought of the tragédie pathétique (a less favourable criticism might call it the “sentimental tragedy”), it could hardly be better exemplified than in this admirable play. A ferocious epigram of Racine’s own (an epigram not unworthy of Martial, and as difficult to comment on to modern ears polite as some of Martial’s own) tells us that some critics thought Pyrrhus too fond of his mistress, and Andromache too fond of her husband, which is not likely to be the present verdict. In the contemporary depreciations is to be found the avowal of its real merit. The interest was too varied, the pathos too close to human nature to content Boileau, and the partisans of Corneille still found Racine unequal to the heroic height of their master’s grandeur. A just criticism will probably hold that these two objections neutralize each other. Both parties agreed in saying that much of the success was due to the actors, another censure which is equivalent to praise. It so happens, too, that, though the four main parts were played by accomplished artists, two at least of them were such as to try those artists severely. Pyrrhus was taken by Floridor, the best tragic actor by common consent of his time, and Orestes by Montfleury, also an accomplished player. But Mademoiselle du Parc, who played Andromache, had generally been thought below, not above, her parts, and Mademoiselle des Oeillets, who played the difficult rôle of Hermione, was old and had few physical advantages. No one who reads Andromaque without prejudice is likely to mistake the secret of its success, which is, in few words, the application of the most delicate art to the conception of really tragic passion. Before leaving the play it may be mentioned that it is said to have been in the part of Hermione, three
years later, that Mademoiselle de Champmeslé captivated the author. Andromaque was succeeded, at the distance of not more than a year, by a play which, taken in conjunction with his others, is perhaps the best proof of the theatrical talent of Racine,—the charming comedietta of Les Plaideurs. We do not know exactly when it was played, but it was printed on 5th December 1668, and it had succeeded so badly that doubtless no long time passed between its appearance on the stage and in print. For the printing at that time both in France and England made the play publica maternes, and therefore in the case of very successful pieces it was put off as long as possible. Many anecdotes are told about the origin and composition of Les Plaideurs, The Wasps of Aristophanes and the known fact that Racine originally destined it, not for a French company, but for the Italian troupe which was then playing the Commedia dell' Arte in Paris dispense us from enumerating them. The result is a piece admirably dramatic, but sufficiently literary to shock the profanum vulgus, which too frequently gives the tone at theatres. It failed completely, the chief favouring voice being, according to a story sufficiently well attested and worthy of belief even without attestation, that of the man who was best qualified to praise and who might have been most tempted to blame of any man then living. Molière, says Yalincourt, the special friend of Racine, said in leaving the house, “ Que ceux qui se moquoient de cette pièce meri toi ent qu’on se moquoient d’eux.” But the piece was suddenly played at court a month later ; the king laughed, and its fortunes were restored. The truth probably was that the legal profession, which was very powerful in the city of Paris, did not fancy the most severe satire on its ways which had been made public since the or ça of the fifth book of Rabelais. It need only be added that, if Louis XIY. admired Les Plaideurs, Napoleon did not, and excluded it from his travelling library. It was followed by a very different work, Britannicus, which appeared on 13th December 1669. It was much less successful than Andromaque, and, whether or not the cabals, of which Racine constantly complains, and which he certainly did nothing to disarm, had anything to do with this, it seems to have held its own but a very few nights. Afterwards it became very popular, and even from the first the exquisite versification was not denied. But there is no doubt that in Britannicus the defects of Racine, which in his first two plays were excusable on the score of apprenticeship, and in the next two hardly appeared at all, display themselves pretty clearly to any competent critic. The complete nullity of Britannicus and Junie and the insufficient attempt to display the complex and dangerous character of Nero are not redeemed by Agrippina, who is really good, and Burrhus, who is solidly painted as a secondary character. Voltaire calls it “la pièce des connaisseurs,” and the description is—not quite in the sense in which the critic meant it—a very pregnant one. Britannicus is eminently the piece in which persons of a dilettante turn are seduced by the beauties which do exist to discover those which do not. The next play of Racine has, except Phèdre, the most curious history of all. “ Bérénice,״ says Fontenelle succinctly, “fut un duel,” and he acknowledges that his uncle was not the conqueror. Henrietta of Orleans proposed (it is said without letting them know the double commission) the subject to Corneille and Racine at the same time, and rumour gives no very creditable reasons for her choice of the subject. Her death, famous for its disputed causes and for Bossuet’s sermon, preceded the performance of the two plays, both of which, but especially Racine’s, were successful. There is no doubt that it is the better of the two, but Chapelle’s not unfriendly criticism in quoting the two lines of an old song—
“ Marion pleure, Marion crie,
Marion veut qu’on la marie ”—
is said to have annoyed Racine very much, and it has a most malicious appropriateness. Bajazet, which was first played on 4th January 1672 (for Racine punctually produced his piece a year), is perhaps better. As a play, technically speaking, it has great merit, but the reproach commonly brought against its author was urged specially and with great force against this by Corneille. It is impossible to imagine anything less Oriental than the atmosphere of Bajazet; the whole thing is not only French but ephemerally French—French of the day and hour; and its ingenious scenario and admirable style scarcely save it. This charge is equally applicable with the same reservations to Mithridate, which appears to have been produced on 13th January 1673, the day after the author’s reception at the Academy. It was extremely popular and, as far as style and perfection in a disputable kind go, Racine could hardly have lodged a more triumphant diploma piece. His next attempt, Iphig'enie, was a long step backwards and upwards in the direction of Andromaque. It is not that the characters are eminently Greek, but that Greek tragedy gave Racine examples which prevented him from flying in the face of the propriety of character as he had done in Berenice, Bajazet, and Mithridate, and that he here called in, as in Andromaque, other passions to the aid of the mere sighing and crying which form the sole appeal of these three tragedies. Achilles is a rather pitiful personage, and the grand story of the sacrifice is softened very tamely to suit French tastes; but the parental agonies of Clytemnestra and Agamemnon are truly drawn, and the whole play is full of pathos. It succeeded brilliantly and deservedly, but, oddly enough, the date of its appearance is very uncertain. It was assuredly acted at court in the late summer of 1674, but it does not seem to have been given to the public till the early spring of 1675, the usual time at which Racine produced his work.
The last and finest of the series of tragedies proper was the most unlucky. Pliedre was represented for the first time on New-Year’s Day 1677 at the Hotel de Bourgogne. Within a week the opposition company or “troupe du roi” launched an opposition Phédre by Pradon. This singular competition, which had momentous results for Racine, and in which he to some extent paid the penalty of the lex talionis for his own rivalry with Corneille, had long been foreseen. It has been hinted that Racine had from the first been bitterly opposed by a clique, whom his great success irritated, while his personal character did nothing to conciliate them. His enemies at this time had the powerful support of the duchess of Bouillon, one of Mazarin’s nieces, a woman of considerable talents and imperious temper, together with her brother the duke of Nevers and divers other personages of high position. These persons of quality, guided, it is said, by Madame Deshouliéres, a poetess of merit whom Boileau unjustly depreciated, selected Pradon, a dramatist of little talent but of much facility, to compose a Phédre in competition with that which it was known that Racine had been elaborating with unusual care. Pradon, perhaps assisted, was equal to the occasion, and it is said that the partisans on both sides did not neglect means for correcting fortune. On her side the duchess of Bouillon is accused of having bought up the front places in both theatres for the first six nights; on his part Racine is said to have repeated an old trick of his and prevailed on the best actresses of the company that played Pradon’s piece to refuse the title part. There is even some ground for believing that Racine endeavoured to prevent the opposition play from being played at all, and that an express order from the king had to be obtained for it. It was of no value, but the measures of the cabal had been so well taken that the finest tragedy of the French classical school was all but driven from the stage, while Pradon’s was a positive success. A war of sonnets and epigrams followed, during which it is said that the duke of Nevers menaced Racine and Boileau with the same treatment which Dryden and Voltaire actually received, and was only deterred by the protection which Conde extended to them.
The unjust cabal against his piece and the various annoyances to which it gave rise no doubt made a deep impression on Racine. But in the absence of accurate contemporary information it is impossible to decide exactly how much influence they had on the subsequent change in his life. For thirteen years he had been constantly employed on a series of brilliant dramas. He now broke off his dramatic work entirely and in the remaining twenty years of his life wrote but two more plays, and those under special circumstances and of quite a different kind. He had been during his early manhood a libertine in morals and religion; he now married, became irreproachably domestic, and almost ostentatiously devout. No authentic account of this change exists; for that of Louis Racine, which attributes the whole to a sudden religious impulse, is manifestly little more than the theory of a son pious in both senses of the word. Probably all the motives which friends and foes have attributed—weariness of dissipated life, jealousy of his numerous rivals in Mademoiselle de Champmesle’s favour, pique at Pradon’s success, fear of losing still further the position of greatest tragic poet which after Corneille’s Surena was indisputably his, religious sentiment, and so forth—entered more or less into his action. At any rate what is certain is that he reconciled himself with Arnauld and Port Royal generally, and on 1st June married Catherine de Romanet and definitely settled down to a quiet domestic life, alternated with the duties of a courtier. For his repentance was by no means a repentance in sackcloth and ashes. The drama was not then very profitable to dramatists, but Louis Racine tells us that his father had been able to furnish a house, collect a library of some value, and save 6000 livres. His wife had money, and he had possessed for some time (it is not certain how long) the honourable and valuable post of treasurer of France at Moulins. His annual “gratification” had been increased from 800 to 1500 livres, then to 2000, and in the October of the year of his marriage he and Boileau were made historiographers-royal with a salary of 2000 crowns. Besides all this he had, though a layman, one or two benefices. It would have been pleasanter if Louis Racine had not told us that his father regarded His Majesty’s choice as “an act of the grace of God to detach him entirely from poetry.” Even after allowing for Louis Racine’s religiosity and the conventional language of all times, there is a flavour of hypocrisy about this which is disagreeable, and has shocked even Racine’s most uncompromising admirers. For the historiographer of Louis XIV. was simply his chief flatterer. Before going further it may be observed that very little came of this historiography. The joint incumbents of the office made some campaigns with the king, sketched plans of histories, and left a certain number of materials and memoirs; but they executed no substantive work. Racine, whether this be set down to his credit or not, was certainly a fortunate and apparently an adroit courtier. His very relapse into Jansenism coincided with his rise at court, where Jansenism was in no favour, and the fact that he had been in the good graces of Madame de Montespan did not deprive him of those of Madame de Maintenon. Neither in Esther did he hesitate to reflect upon his former patroness. But a reported sneer of the king, who was sharp-eyed enough, “Cavoie avec Racine se croit bel esprit; Racine avec Cavoie
se croit courtisan,” makes it appear that his comparatively low birth was not forgotten at Versailles.
Racine’s first campaign was at the siege of Ypres in 1678, where some practical jokes are said to have been played on the two civilians who acted this early and peculiar variety of the part of special correspondent. Again in 1683, in 1687, and in each year from 1691 to 1693 Racine accompanied the king on similar expeditions. The literary results of these have been spoken of. His labours brought him, in addition to his other gains, frequent special presents from the king, one of which was as much as 1000 pistoles. In 1690 he further received the office of “ gentilhomme ordinaire du roi,” which afterwards passed to his son. Thus during the later years of his life he was more prosperous than is usual with poets. His domestic life appears to have been a happy one. Louis Racine tells us that his mother “ did not know what a verse ־was,” but Racine certainly knew enough about verses for both. They had seven children. The eldest, Jean Baptiste, ־was born in 1678; the youngest, Louis, in 1692. It has been said that he was thus too young to have many personal memories of his father, but he tells one or two stories which show Racine to have been at any rate a man of strong family affection, as, moreover, his letters prove. Between the two sons came five daughters, Marie, Anne, Elizabeth, Françoise, and Madeleine. The eldest, after showing “vocation,” married in 1699, Anne and Elizabeth took the veil, the youngest two remained single but did not enter the cloister. To complete the notice of family matters—much of Racine’s later correspondence is addressed to his sister Marie, Madame Rivière.
The almost complete silence in the literary sphere which Racine imposed on himself after the comparative failure, shameful not for himself but for his adversaries, of Phèdre was broken once or twice even before the appearance of the two exquisite tragedies in which under singular circumstances he took leave of the stage. The most honourable of these was the reception of Thomas Corneille on 2d January 1685 at the Academy in the room of his brother. The discourse which Racine then pronounced turned almost entirely on his great rival, of whom he spoke even more than becomingly. But it was an odd conjunction of the two reigning passions of the latter part of his life—devoutness and obsequiousness to the court—which made him once more a dramatist. Madame de !Maintenon had established an institution, first called the Maison Saint Louis, and afterwards (from the place to which it was transferred) the Maison de Saint Cyr, for the education of poor girls of noble family. The tradition of including acting in education was not obsolete. At first the governess, !Madame de Grinon, composed pieces for representation, but, says Madame de Caylus, a witness at first hand and a good judge, they were “ detestable.” Then recourse ־was had to chosen plays of Corneille and Racine, but here there were obvious objections. The favourite herself wrote to Racine that “nos petites filles” had played Andromaque “a great deal too well.” She asked the poet for a new play suited to the circumstances, and, though Boileau advised him against it, it is not wonderful that he yielded. The result was the masterpiece of Esther, with music by Moreau, the court composer and organist of Saint Cyr. Although played by schoolgirls and in a dormitory, it had an enormous success, in which it may be charitably hoped that the transparent comparison of the patroness to the heroine had not too much to do. Printed shortly afterwards, it had to suffer a certain reaction, or perhaps a certain vengeance, from those who had not been admitted to the private stage. But no competent judge could hesitate. Racine probably had read and to some extent followed the Aman of Montchrestien, but he made of it only the use
which a proved master in literature has a perfect right to make of his forerunners. The beauty of the chorus, which Racine had restored more probably from a study of the Pléiade tragedy than from classical suggestions, the perfection of the characters, and the wonderful art of the whole piece need no praise. Almost immediately the poet was at work on another and a still finer piece of the same kind, and he had probably finished Athalie before the end of 1690. The fate of the play, however, was very different from that of Esther. Some fuss had been made about the worldliness of great court fêtes at Saint Cyr, and the new play, with settings as before by Moreau, was acted both at Versailles and at Saint Cyr with much less pomp and ceremony than Esther. It was printed in March 1691 and the public cared very little for it. The truth is that the last five-and-twenty years of the reign of Louis XIV. were marked by one of the lowest tides of literary accomplishment and appreciation in the history of France. The just judgment of posterity has ranked Athalie, if not as Racine’s best work (and there are good grounds for considering it to be this), at any rate as equal to his best. Thenceforward Racine was practically silent, except for four cantiques spirituelles, in the style and with much of the merit of the choruses of Esther and Athalie. The general literary sentiment led by Fontenelle (who inherited the wrongs of Corneille, his uncle, and ־whom Racine had taken care to estrange further) was against the arrogant critic and the irritable poet, and they made their case worse by espousing the cause of La Bruyère, whose personalities in his Caractères had made him one of the best hated men in France, and by engaging in the ancient and modern battle with Perrault. Racine, moreover, was a constant and spiteful epigrammatist, and the unlucky habit of preferring his joke to his friend stuck by him to the last. A savage epigram on the Sesostris of Longepierre, who had done him no harm and was his familiar acquaintance, dates as late as 1695. Still the king maintained him in favour, and so long as this continued he could afford to laugh at Grub Street and the successors of the Hôtel de Rambouillet alike. At last, however, there seems (for the matter is not too clear) to have come a change. Some say that he disobliged Madame de Maintenon, some (and this would be much to his honour, but not exactly in accord with anything else known of him) that, like Vauban and Fénelon, he urged the growing misery of the people. But there seems to be little doubt of the fact of the royal displeasure, and it is even probable that it had some effect on his health. Disease of the liver appears to have been the immediate cause of his death, which took place on 12th April 1699. The king seems to have, at any rate, forgiven him after his death, and he gave the family a pension of 2000 livres. Racine was buried at Port Royal, but even this transaction was not the last of his relations with that famous home of religion and learning. After the destruction of the abbey in 1711 his body was exhumed and transferred to Saint Étienne du Mont, his gravestone being left behind and only restored to his ashes a hundred years later, in 1818. His eldest son was never married; his eldest daughter and Louis Racine have left descendants to the present day.
A critical biography of Racine is, in more ways than one, an exceptionally difficult undertaking,—not in regard to the facts, which, as will have been seen, are fairly abundant, but as to the construction to be placed on them. The admirers of Racine’s literary genius have made it a kind of religion to defend his character ; and strictures on his character, it seems to be thought, imply a desire to depreciate his literary worth. The reader of the above sketch of his life must judge for himself whether Racine is or is net to be ranked with those great men of letters, fortunately the greater number, whose personality is attractive and their foibles at worst excusable. There is no doubt that the general impression given, not merely by the flying anecdotes of the time, but by ascertained facts, is somewhat unfavourable. Racine’s affection for his family
and liis unbroken friendship for Boileau are the sole points of his life which are entirely creditable to him. His conduct to Molière and to Nicole cannot be excused ; his attitude towards his critics and his rivals was querulous and spiteful ; his relation to Corneille contrasts strikingly with the graceful position which young men of letters, sometimes by no means his inferiors, have often taken up towards the surviving glories of a past generation ; his “ conversion,” though there is no just cause for branding it as hypocritical, appears to have been a singularly accommodating one, enabling him to tolerate adultery, to libel his friends in secret, and to flatter greatness unhesitatingly. None of these things perhaps are very heinous crimes, but they are all of the class of misdoing which, fairly or unfairly, mankind are apt to regard with greater dislike than positive misdeeds of a more glaring but less unheroic character.
The personality of an author is, however, by all the laws of the saner criticism, entirely independent of the rank to be assigned to his work, and, as in other cases, the strongest dislike for the character of Racine as a man is compatible with the most unbounded admiration of his powers as a writer. But here again his injudicious admirers have interposed a difficulty. There is a theory common in France, and sometimes adopted out of it, that only a Frenchman, and not every Frenchman, can properly appreciate Racine. The charm of his verse and of his dramatic presentation is so esoteric and delicate that foreigners cannot hope to taste it. This is of course absurd, and if it were true it would be fatal to Racine’s claims as a poet of the highest rank. Such poets, such writers, are not parochial or provincial, and even the greatest nations are but provinces or parishes in the realm of literature. Homer, Shakespeare, Dante, even Molière, Rabelais, Goethe, are not afraid to challenge the approval of the whole world, and the whole world is not found incom-
Eetent or unwilling to give it. Nor need Racine in reality avail imself of this unwise pretension. J udged by the common tests of literature he is a consummate artist, but he is scarcely a great poet, for his art, though unsurpassed in its kind, is narrow in range and his poetry is neither of the highest nor of the most genuine.
He may be considered from two very different points of view,— (1) as a playwright and poetical artificer, and (2) as a dramatist and a poet. From the first point of view there is hardly any praise too high for him. He did not invent the form he practised, and those who, from want of attention to the historical facts, assume that he did are unskilful as well as ignorant. When he came upon the scene the form of French plays was settled, partly by the energetic efforts of the Pléiade and their successors, partly by the reluctant acquiescence of Corneille. It is barely possible that the latter might, if he had chosen, have altered the course of French tragedy ; it is nearly certain that Racine could not. But Corneille, though he was himself more responsible than any one else for the acceptance of the single-situation tragedy, never frankly gave himself up to it, and the inequality of his work is due to this. His heart was, though not to his knowledge, elsewhere, and with Shakespeare. Racine, in whom the craftsman dominated the man of genius, worked with a will and without any misgivings. Every advantage which the Senecan tragedy adapted to modern times was capable of he gave it. He perfected its versification ; he subordinated its scheme entirely to the one motive which could have free play in it,—the display of a conventionally intense passion ; he set himself to produce in verse a kind of Ciceronian correctness. The grammar criticisms of Yaugelas and the taste criticisms of Boileau produced in him no feeling of revolt, but only a determination to play the game according to these new rules with triumphant accuracy. And he did so play it. He had supremely the same faculty which enabled the rhétoriqueurs of the 15th century to execute apparently impossible tours de force in ballades couronnées, and similar tricks. He had besides a real and saving vein of truth to nature, which preserved him from tricks pure and simple. He would be and he was as much a poet as prevalent taste would let him be. The result is that such plays as Phèdre and Andromaque are supreme in their own way. If the critic will only abstain from thrusting in tierce, when according to the particular rules he ought to thrust in quart, Racine is sure to beat him.
But there is a higher game of criticism than this, and this game Racine does not attempt to play. He does not even attempt the highest poetry at all. His greatest achievements in pure passion— the foiled desires of Hermione and the jealous frenzy of Phèdre —are cold, not merely beside the crossed love of Ophelia and the remorse of Lady Macbeth, but beside the sincerer if less perfectly expressed passion of Corneille’s Cléopâtre and Camille. In men’s parts he fails still more completely. As the decency of his stage would not allow him to make his heroes frankly heroic, so it would not allow him to make them utterly passionate. He had, moreover, cut away from himself by the adoption of the Senecan model all the opportunities which would have been offered to his remarkably varied talent on a freer stage. It is indeed tolerably certain that he never could have achieved the purely poetical comedy of As You Like It or the Vida cs Sueno, but the admirable success of Les Plaideurs makes it at least probable that he might have done something in a lower and a more conventional style. From all this,
however, he deliberately cut himself off. Of the whole world which is subject to the poet he took only a narrow artificial and conventional fraction. Within these narrow bounds he did work which no admirer of literary craftsmanship can regard without admiration. But at the same time no one speaking with competence can deny that the bounds are narrow. It would be unnecessary to contrast his performances with his limitations so sharply if those limitations had not been denied. But they have been and are still denied by persons whose sentence carries weight, and therefore it is still necessary to point out the fact of their existence.
Nearly all Racine’s works are mentioned in the above notice. There is here no room for a bibliographical account of their separate appearances. The first collected edition was in 1675-76, and contained the nine tragedies which had then appeared. The last and most complete which appeared in the poet’s lifetime (1697) was revised by him, and contains the dramas and a few miscellaneous works. Like the editio princeps, it is in 2 vols. 12mo. The posthumous editions are innumerable and gradually became more and more complete. The most noteworthy are the Amsterdam edition of 1722 ; that by Abbé cfOlivet, also at Amsterdam, 1743 ; the Paris quarto of 1760 ; the edition of Luneau de Boisjermain, Paris and London, 1768 ; the magnificent illustrated folios of 1805 (Paris) ; the edition of Germain Gamier with La Harpe’s commentary, 1807 ; Geoffroy’s of the next year ; Aimé Martin’s of 1820 ; and lastly, the grands écrivains edition of Paul Mesnard (Paris, 1865-73). This last contains almost all that is necessary for the study of the poet, and has been chiefly used in preparing the above notice. Louis Racine’s Life was first published in 1747. Translations and imitations of Racine are innumerable. In English the Distressed Mother of Philips and the Phaedra and Hippolytus of Smith, both composed more or less under Addison’s influence, are the most noteworthy. (G. SA.)
RACKETS. Like tennis, this game of ball is of French origin, and its name is derived from “ raquette,” the French term for the bat used in the pastime. In the United Kingdom it is not so universally pursued as cricket and football, and is essentially an indoor game, which is played only in prepared and covered courts. Such buildings have been erected at many of the large public schools, at the universities, and in garrison towns, where will be found the chief exponents of rackets, a game which requires active running powers, quick eyesight, and dexterity of hand.
The old “ open ” courts, which merely consisted of a plain wall without any side walls, are now almost obsolete and need not be further mentioned.
The usual dimensions of a “close” court are 80 feet by 40 feet for four-handed matches, whilst 60 feet by 30 feet are sufficient for a single match.
Sometimes courts are built of an intermediate size so as to be available for either single or double matches.
The front wall of a court should be 40 feet high, the back one 14 feet, the space over the latter being utilized by a gallery for spectators, umpire, and marker. The side walls are 40 feet high throughout, in order to support the roof. This must be well lit with skylights carried on light iron girders and protected inside with wire-work in order to ward off damage from the balls. Bricks make the best walls, which must be plastered inside with Boman cement or plaster of Paris, set to a perfectly level surface in order that the balls may rebound evenly. In the military officers’ courts in India this plaster is painted white for the sake of
VY    - ry
coolness, and black balls are in vogue. In England black paint and white balls are used. In cool climates asphalt makes the best flooring. In the tropics stone paving, perfectly evenly set, or some similar material, must be used. Gutta-percha soles to the shoes of the players are indispensable, to prevent slipping and to preserve the evenness of the flooring. The narrow entrance door, made of very hard wood, is situated in the centre of the back wall and must be perfectly flush with the same on the inside. The bottom of the front wall is covered with hollow deal sounding boarding up to a height of 2 feet 2 inches, where is the “ line.” The sound betrays a ball striking the boarding below the line, which throws it out of play. At 7 feet 9 inches above the level of the floor comes another white line across the front wall, termed the “ cut line,” because the in-player, when serving, must first make the ball rebound from the front wall above this line. Across the floor, varying in position according to the length of the court, is the “ short line,” so called because an out-player is not bound to take any ball served which falls between it and the front wall. The space between here and the back wall is divided into twr o equal-sized parallelograms by a line drawn down to the doorway. As the front wall is faced, these are called “ right ” and “ left ” courts. An in-player serving from one side must make the ball fall in the other court after rebounding from the front wall. The “ service spaces,” in which an in-player stands when serving, are 8 feet 6 inches deep from the short line and 6 feet 6 inches wide from each side wall.
The game is played with no other implements but bats and balls. The striking portion of the former is ovalshaped and strung tightly across with catgut. The handle is of pliant ash covered with leather in order to give the hand a tight grip. The balls are about 11 inches in diameter, and very hard in order to rebound evenly and quickly.
In a four-handed game we will suppose A and B to be playing against C and I) and that the former couple have won the choice of first innings. A accordingly commences serving from the right service space into the left court, that being the most difficult one to return the ball from. B stands behind A to return any balls for his side in the back portion of the court. C stands where he likes ready to take the ball about to be served by A, whilst C’s partner, D, places himself between A and B to take the fore court play for his side. For A’s service to be good his ball must first strike the front wall above the cut line, and secondly rebound from the floor of the left-hand court, though whether it strike the side or back walls or not after rebounding from the front wall is immaterial. If these rules are complied with, C is bound to return the ball, at its first bound off the floor, on to the front wall above the sounding-board. If he does not succeed A and B score one ace in their favour. If C achieves his purpose the game is continued by one of either side returning the ball alternately, till a player either strikes the sounding board, skies it into the roof or gallery, or strikes it later than the first bound off the floor. If A or B makes the first failure A is out. If it is C or D, the in-side scores an ace, and A continues serving alternately from each service space. The out-player may take a faulty service at his own option. If he does, the ace is played out in the usual way. When A is put out C goes in, then D, and lastly A’s partner B, and so on in the same rotation. B is not allowed to follow A’s first hand, as the latter has the advantage of possibly scoring the first ace. The player who gains the last ace of a game continues serving for the next. The mode of procedure in a single-handed match is precisely the same, each player going in alternately, hut having no partner to aid him. It often happens that both sides go in and out several times running without scoring. The most difficult kind of services to take are the sharp “cut,” which strikes the front wall just above the cut line and rebounds with great velocity, and the “ nick ” into the back corner of the court served into. Other strokes are the “drop,” which places the ball only just above the wooden board, making it fall almost dead ; the “ volley,” in which the ball is struck in the full before touching the floor ; and lastly, the “cut,” by which the ball acquires a twisting or rotatory spin as well as a forward motion caused by a descending diagonal stroke with the bat. The following are the rules of rackets as drawn up and used at Prince’s Club, London, the leading racket club of the United Kingdom.
1. The game to be 15 up. At 13 all, the out-players may set it to 5, and at 14 all, to 3, provided this be done before another ball is struck.
2.    The going in first, whether odds be given or not, to be decided by lot, but one hand only then is to be taken.
3.    The ball to be served alternately from right and left, beginning whichever side the server pleases.
4.    In serving, the server must have one foot in the space marked off for that purpose. The out-player to whom he serves may stand where he pleases, but his partner and the server’s partner must both stand behind the server till the ball is served.
5.    The ball must be served above, and not touching the line on the front wall, and it must strike the floor, before it bounds, within and not touching the lines enclosing the court on the side opposite to that in which the server stands.
6.    A ball served below the line, or to the wrong side, is a fault, but it may be taken, and then the ace must be played out, and counts.
7.    In serving, if the ball strikes anywhere before it reaches the front wall, it is a hand out.
8.    In serving, if a ball touches the server or his partner before it has bounded twice it is a hand out, whether it was properly served or not.
9.    It is a fault—
a.    If the server is not in his proper place.
b.    If the ball is not served over the line.
c.    If it does not fall in the proper court.
d.    If it touches the roof.
e.    If it touches the gallery-netting, posts, or cushions.
The out-player may take a fault if he pleases, but if he fails in putting the ball up it counts against him.
10.    Two consecutive faults put a hand out.
11.    An out-player may not take a ball served to his partner.
12.    The out-players may change their courts once only in each game.
13.    If a player designedly stops a ball before the second bound it counts against him.
14.    If a ball hits the striker's adversary above or on the knee, it is a let; if below the knee, or if it hits the striker’s partner or himself, it counts against the striker.
15.    Till a ball has been touched, or has bounded twice, the player or his partner may strike it as often as they please.
16.    Every player should get out of the way as much as possible. If he cannot, the marker is to decide whether it is a let or not.
17.    After the service, a ball going out of the court or hitting the roof is an ace ; a ball hitting the gallery-netting, posts, or cushions, in returning from the front wall, is a let; but if it hits the roof before reaching the front wall it counts against the striker.
18.    The marker’s decision is final. If he has any doubt, he should ask
advice; and, if he cannot decide positively, the ace is to be played over again.    (H. F. W.)
RADAUTZ, a town in the Austrian duchy of Bukowina, is situated on the Suczava, about 15 miles from the frontier of Moldavia. It was formerly the seat of a Greek bishopric, removed to Czernowitz in 1786, and possesses a cathedral with the tombs of several Moldavian princes. It contains a Government stud, and manufactures paper, glass, machinery, beer, and brandy. In 1880 Radautz had 11,162 inhabitants.
RADBERTUS, head of the Benedictine abbey of Corbie, near Amiens, from 844 to 851, and one of the most prominent theological writers of his age, was born at or near Soissons towards the close of the 8th century, and became a monk of Corbie in 814, when he assumed the cloister name of Paschasius. He soon gained recognition as a learned and successful teacher, and Adalhard, St Anskar the apostle of Sweden, Odo bishop of Beauvais, and Warinus abbot of Corvey in Saxony may be mentioned among the more distinguished of his pupils. In 844 he was chosen abbot, but as a disciplinarian he was more energetic than successful, and in 867 he resigned the office. In his official capacity he took part in the synod of Chiersy which condemned Gottschalk. Of the closing period of his life nothing is known, except that it was one of great literary activity.
His works include an Expositio in Matthseum, in twelve books, a favourable specimen of the exegesis of that period, and the Liber dc Corpore et Sanguine Christi, a pious and popularly written treatise, designed to prove that the elements in the sacrament are completely changed. The latter work, originally composed in 831, elicited a reply by Ratramnus, a brother monk of Corbie, who maintained that the body and blood of Christ were present in the Eucharist only “ spiritualiter et secundum potentiam.” The Dc Partic Virginis of Radbertus (845) was also taken exception to by Ratramnus for its Docetic teaching as to the manner of Christ’s birth “utero clauso.”
RADCLIFFE, a town of Lancashire, is situated on the river Irwell, crossed by a bridge of two arches, and on the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway, 7 miles north-west of Manchester and 2 south-west of Bury. The church of St Bartholomew dates from the time of Henry IV. ; some of the Norman portions of the building still remain. The tower was rebuilt in 1665, the north transept added in 1846, and the whole building restored in 1870-73. It possesses some good windows and several ancient monu
ments. Radcliffe Tower, dating from the 13th century, and formerly an extensive manorial residence, is now a complete ruin.    Cotton-weaving, calico-printing, and
bleaching are the principal industries, and there are extensive collieries in the neighbourhood. The town is governed by a local board of health established in 1866. The area of the urban sanitary district is 2453 acres, with a population in 1871 of 11,446, and in 1881 of 16,267.
Radcliffe is so called from a cliff of red rock on the south side of the Irwell opposite the town. The manor was held by Edward the Confessor, and was conferred on Roger de Poictou, but was forfeited by him soon after the Domesday survey. In the reign of Stephen it was granted to Ranulph de Gernons, earl of Chester.
RADCLIFFE, Ann Ward (1764-1823), novelist, was born in London on 9th July 1764. She was the author of three novels unsurpassed of their kind in English literature, The Romance of the Forest (1791), The Mysteries of Udolpho (1794), The Italian (1797). The interval of three years between the successive publications is noticeable; works so elaborate, intricate, and closely interwoven could not be written in a hurry. The second of the three novels is the one commonly associated with Mrs Radcliffe’s name, but the preference is probably due to the title; each is an improvement on its predecessor, and the last is considerably the best on the whole in style as well as in plot and character. She wrote two other novels before any of these, the Castles of Atldin and Dunbayne (1789) and the Sicilian Romance (1790), but they attracted no special attention and deserve none, although in them she works with the same romantic materials—dreadful castles, wild adventures, terrible characters. One other was written after the famous three, but not published till 1826, three years after her death—Gaston de Blondeville, interesting as an elaborate study of costume and scenery, and valuable as a monument of her accurate archaeological learning, but comparatively tedious as a story, though not without passages in her best style. The circumstances that turned Mrs Radcliffe to literature are not recorded in the meagre memoir published under her husband’s direction. Her maiden name was Ward, and her parents, who are described as “ persons of great respectability, though engaged in trade,” in London, had literary relations. Her husband was an Oxford graduate and proprietor and editor of the English Chronicle. After The Italian she gave up writing for publication, and was reported to have been driven mad by the horrors of her own creations. This was purely mythical. It appears that she never saw the Italian scenery which she depicts with such minuteness, and never left England but once, in the summer of 1794, after the completion of her TJdolpho. A record of the tour was published in the following year, along with descriptions of a visit to the English Lakes, the beauties of which she was one of the first to celebrate. Of scenery, as might be judged from her novels, where the descriptions are often felt as a tedious impediment, Mrs Radcliffe was an enthusiastic amateur, and made driving tours with her husband every other summer through the English counties. She died in February 1823.
As a novelist Mrs Radcliffe deserves a much higher place than is accorded to her in general estimation. Critics familiar with her works, from Sir Walter Scott downwards, have shown themselves fully alive to the difference; but the general public confound her with puerile and extravagant imitators, who have vulgarized her favourite “properties” of rambling and ruinous old castles, dark, desperate, and cadaverous villains, secret passages, vaults, trapdoors, evidences of deeds of monstrous crime, sights and sounds of mysterious horror. She deserves at least the credit of originality, but apart from this there are three respects in which none of her numerous imitators approach her,—ingenuity of plot, fertility of incident, and skill in devising apparently supernatural occurrences capable of explanation by human agency and natural coincidence. Except in her last and posthumously published work she never introduces the really supernatural, and, whether or not we agree with Sir Walter Scott that this limitation was a mistake in art, it must at least be acknowledged to impose a heavier burden on the author’s ingenuity. Her imitators found it easier to follow Horace Walpole in this point. Some of the tragic situations in The Italian are worked out with a vivid power of imagination which it would be hard to parallel in English literature outside the range of the Elizabethan drama, with the minor celebrities of which Mrs Radcliffe may fairly challenge comparison.
RADETZKY, Johann־ J. W. A. F. C., Count of Radetz (1766-1858), field-marshal of Austria, was born at Trzebnitz in Bohemia in 1766, to the nobility of which province his family belonged. He entered a cavalry regiment in 1784 and served under Joseph II. and Laudon against the Turks in 1788 and 1789. In 1793 his regiment was sent to the lower Rhine, and from this time onwards Radetzky was engaged in the wars which were continued (with intermission) between Austria and France for the next twenty years. In 1796 he was adjutant to General Beaulieu, over whom Bonaparte won his first victories in Italy. In 1799, when the Austrians with Suwaroffs help reconquered Northern Italy, he distinguished himself at the battles of Novi and the Trebbia, displaying, according to the despatches of General Mêlas, great presence of mind in the midst of extreme danger. After the defeat of Marengo he was removed from Italy to Germany, and there took part in the still more disastrous engagement of Hohenlinden. In 1805 Radetzky, now major-general, was back in Italy, serving under the archduke Charles in the successful campaign of Caldiero, the fruits of which were lost by Mack’s capitulation at Ulm and the fall of Vienna. In 1809 he fought at Wagram. In 1813, when all the great powers of Europe combined against Napoleon, Radetzky was chief of the staff under Schwarzenberg, the Austrian commander-in-chief of the allied forces, and he now gained a reputation outside his own country. The plan of the battle of Leipsic is said to have been in great part Radetzky’s work, and in this engagement he was wounded. He entered Paris with the allied sovereigns in March 1814, and returned with them to the congress of Vienna, where he appears to have acted as an intermediary between Metternich and the czar Alexander, when these great personages were not on speaking terms. During the succeeding years of peace he disappeared from the public view and narrowly escaped being pensioned off in 1829. The insurrection of the Papal Legations in 1831 brought him, however, into active service again; and on the retirement of General Frimont he was placed in command of all the Austrian forces in Italy, receiving in 1836 the dignity of field-marshal. Radetzky was now seventy years old, but twelve more years were to pass before the really historical part of his career opened. When he was eighty-two the revolution of 1848 broke out. Milan rose in insurrection against its Austrian rulers, and after a struggle of five days Radetzky was forced to evacuate the city. Unable to retain any hold on Lombardy, he concentrated his troops at Verona, the fortifications of which were to a great extent his own creation. Charles Albert, king of Sardinia, now declared war upon Austria, occupied Milan, and laid siege to Peschiera. Radetzky, after the arrival of reinforcements, moved southwards to Mantua, and attempted from that point to turn the Sardinian flank ; he was, however, defeated on the Mincio, and Peschiera fell into the enemy’s hands. Radetzky, nevertheless, was secure in the possession of Verona and Mantua ; and, after being still further reinforced, he resumed the offensive in July, defeated the Sardinians at Cus-tozza and in several other encounters, and advanced victoriously upon Milan, where, on 6th August, an armistice was concluded, the Sardinian army retiring behind the Ticino. During the succeeding months, while Vienna and the central provinces of the Austrian empire appeared likely to fall into anarchy, Radetzky’s army remained firm in its loyalty to the old order of things, and declined to enter
into relations with the democratic leaders. It was in fact at this time the mainstay of the house of Hapsburg, while everything around the central government tottered; and, when the restoration of authority began, and the young emperor Francis Joseph ascended the throne that had been vacated by his imbecile predecessor, Radetzky gave to the new monarch the prestige of a crushing victory over his Italian enemies. The armistice was denounced by Charles Albert on the 12th of March 1819. On the 20th Radetzky crossed the Ticino at Pavia, and on the 23d he annihilated the Italian army at Novara. Peace followed this brief and decisive campaign, and for the next eight years Radetzky governed upper Italy. He retired from service in 1857, and died at the age of ninety-two in the following year. Radetzky was idolized by the Austrian army, but his reputation as a general has not survived him.
RADHANPUR, a petty state of India, within the group of states under the supervision of the political superintendent of Palanpur; it is situated in the north-western corner of Gujarat, close to the Runn of Cutch, Bombay presidency, and lies between 23° 26' and 23° 58' N. lat. and between 71° 28' and 72° 3' E. long. The country is an open plain without hills and with few trees, square in shape, and about 35 miles across. Including the pergunnahs of Munjpur and Sami, it contains an area of 1150 square miles with a population (1881) of 98,129 (males 50,903, females 47,226), the majority being Hindus. Though subject to very great extremes of heat and cold, the climate is healthy. The estimated yearly revenue of the state is from £50,000 to £60,000. Its chief products are cotton, wheat, and all the common varieties of grain; the only manufacture of any importance is the preparation of a fine description of saltpetre. Radhanpur came under British protection in 1819, when the nawab applied for aid to check the raids of marauders. No tribute is exacted and its domestic relations are left entirely free.
Radhanpur, chief town of the state and the seat of the nawab, had a population of 14,722 in 1881. The nearest railway station is at Kharagoda, 40 miles distant.
RADIATA. This term was introduced by Cuvier in 1812 to denote the lowest of his four great animal groups or “ embranchements.” He defined them as possessing radial instead of bilateral symmetry, and as apparently destitute of nervous system and sense organs, as having the circulatory system rudimentary or absent, and the respiratory organs on or coextensive with the surface of the body; he included under this title and definition five classes,—Echinodermata, Acalepha, Entozoa, Polypi, and Infusoria. Lamarck {Hist. not. d. Anim. s. Vertebres) also used the term, as when he spoke of the Medusae as radiata medusaria et anomala; but he preferred the term Radiaria, under which he included Echinodermata and Medusae. Cuvier’s term in its wide extension, however, passed into general use; but, as the anatomy of the different forms became more fully known, the difficulty of including them under the common designation made itself increasingly obvious. Milne-Edwards removed the Poly-zoa; the group was soon further thinned by the exclusion of the Protozoa on the one hand and the Entozoa on the other; while in 1848 Leuckart and Frey clearly distinguished the Ccelenterata from the Echinodermata as a separate sub-kingdom, thus condemning the usage by which the term still continued to be applied to these two groups at least. In 1855, however, Owen included under Lamarck’s term Radiaria the Echinodermata, Anthozoa, Acalepha, and Hydrozoa, while Agassiz also clung to the term Radiata as including Echinoder-mata, Acalepha, and Polypi, regarding their separation into Ccelenterata and Echinodermata as “an exaggeration of their anatomical differences” (Essay on Classification, London, 1859).
These attempts, however, to perpetuate the usage were finally discredited by Huxley’s important Lectures on Comparative Anatomy (1864), in which the term was finally abolished, and the “radiate mob ” finally distributed among the Echinodermata, Polyzoa, Vermes (Platyhelminthes), Ccelenterata, and Protozoa. On radiate symmetry, see Morphology. Compare also Cuvier, Animal Kingdom, Echinodermata, Corals, &c.
RADIATION and CONVECTION. 1. When a red-hot cannon ball is taken out of a furnace and suspended in the air it is observed to cool, i.e., to part with heat, and it continues to do so at a gradually diminishing rate till it finally reaches the temperature of the room. But the process by which this effect is produced is a very complex one. If the hand be held at a distance of a few inches from the hot ball on either side of it or below it, the feeling of warmth experienced is considerable; but it becomes intolerable when the hand is held at the same distance abeyve the ball. Even this rude form of experiment is sufficient to show that two processes of cooling are simultaneously at work,—one which apparently leads to the loss of heat in all directions indifferently, another which leads to a special loss in a vertical direction upwards. If the experiment is made in a dark room, into which a ray of sunlight is admitted so as to throw a shadow of the ball on a screen, we see that the column of air above the ball also casts a distinct shadow. It is, in fact, a column of air very irregularly heated by contact with the ball, and rising, in obedience to hydrostatic laws, in the colder and denser air around it. This conveyance of heat by the motion of the heated body itself is called convection; the process by which heat is lost indifferently in all directions is called radiation. These two processes are entirely different in their nature, laws, and mechanism ; but we have to treat of both in the present article.
2.    To illustrate how the third method by which heat can be transferred, viz., conduction (see Heat, vol. xi. p. 577), is involved in this process, let the cannon ball (which for this purpose should be a large one) be again heated and at once immersed in water until it just ceases to be luminous in the dark, and then be immediately hung up in the air. After a short period it again becomes red-hot all over, and the phenomenon then proceeds precisely as before, except that the surface of the ball does not become so hot as it was before being plunged in the water. This form of experiment, which requires that the interior shall be very considerably cooled before the surface ceases to be self-luminous, does not succeed nearly so well with a copper ball as with an iron one, on account of the comparatively high conductivity of copper. In fact, even when its surface is covered with lamp-black, to make the loss by radiation as great as possible, the difference of temperature between the centre and the surface of a very hot copper ball—which is only an inch or two in diameter—is inconsiderable.
3.    In conduction there is passage of heat from hotter to colder parts of the same body; in convection an irregularly heated fluid becomes hydrostatically unstable, and each part carries its heat with it to its new position. In both processes heat is conveyed from place to place. But it is quite otherwise with radiation. That a body cools in consequence of radiation is certain; that other bodies which absorb the radiation are thereby heated is also certain; but it does not at all follow that what passes in the radiant form is heat. To return for a moment to the red-hot cannon ball. If, while the hand is held below it, a thick but dry ])late of rock-salt is interposed between the ball and the hand there is no perceptible diminution of warmth, and the temperature of the salt is not perceptibly raised by the radiation which passes through it. When a piece
of clear ice is cut into the form of a large burning-glass it can be employed to inflame tinder by concentrating the sun’s rays, and the lens does the work nearly as rapidly as if it had been made of glass. It is certainly not what we ordinarily call “ heat ” which can be transmitted under conditions like these. Radiation is undoubtedly a transference of energy, which was in the form commonly called heat in the radiating body, and becomes heat in a body which absorbs it ; but it is transformed as it leaves the first body, and retransformed when it is absorbed by the second. Until the comparatively recent full recognition of the conservation and transformation of energy it was almost impossible to form precise ideas on matters like this ; and, consequently, we find in the writings even of men like Prévost and Sir J. Leslie notions of the wildest character as to the mechanism of radiation. Leslie, strangely, regarded it as a species of “ pulsation ” in the air, in some respects analogous to sound, and propagated with the same speed as sound. Prévost, on the other hand, says, “ Le calorique est un fluide discret ; chaque élément de calorique suit constamment la même ligne droite, tant qu’aucun obstacle ne l’arrête. Dans un espace chaud, chaque point est traversé sans cesse en tout sens uar des filets de calorique.”
4.    The more intensely the cannon ball is heated the more luminous does it become, and also the more nearly white is the light which it gives out. So well is this known that in almost all forms of civilized speech there are terms corresponding to our “ red-hot,” “ white-hot,” &c. As another instance, suppose a powerful electric current is made to pass through a stout iron wire. The wire becomes gradually hotter, up to a certain point, at which the loss by radiation and convection just balances the gain of heat by electric resistance. And as it becomes hotter the amount of its radiation increases, till at a definite temperature it becomes just visible in the dark by red rays of low refrangibility. As it becomes still hotter the whole radiation increases ; the red rays formerly given off become more luminous, and are joined by others of higher refrangibility. This process goes on, the whole amount of radiation still increasing, each kind of visible light becoming more intense, and new rays of light of higher refrangibility coming in, until the whole becomes white, i.e., gives off all the more efficient kinds of visible light in much the same relative proportion as that in which they exist in sunlight. When the circuit is broken, exactly the same phenomena occur in the reverse order, the various kinds of light disappearing later as their refrangibility is less. But the radiation continues, growing weaker every instant, even after the whole is dark. This simple observation irresistibly points to the conclusion that the so-called “ radiant heat ” is precisely the same phenomenon as “ light,” only the invisible rays are still less refrangible than the lowest red, and that our sense of sight is confined to rays of a certain definite range of refrangibility, while the sense of touch comes in where sight fails us. Sir W. Herschel in 1798, by placing the bulb of a thermometer in the solar spectrum formed by a flint-glass prism, found that the highest temperature was in the dark region outside the lowest visible red,—a result amply verified at the time by others, though warmly contested by Leslie.
5.    This striking conclusion is not without close analogies in connexion with the other senses, especially that of hearing. Thus it has long been known that the “ range of hearing” differs considerably in different individuals, some, for instance, being painfully affected by the chirp of a cricket, which is inaudible to others whose general hearing is quite as good. Extremely low notes, on the other hand, of whose existence we have ample dynamical
evidence, are not heard by any one; when perceived at all they are felt.
6.    We may now rapidly run over the principal facts characteristic of the behaviour of visible rays (see Light), and point out how far each has been found to characterize that of so-called “ radiant heat ” under similar conditions.
(a) Rectilinear propagation : an opaque screen which is placed so as to intercept the sun’s light intercepts its heat also, whether it be close to the observer, at a few miles from him (as a cloud or a mountain), or 240,000 miles off (as the moon in a total eclipse). (b) Speed of propagation: this must be of the same order of magnitude, at least, for both phenomena, i.e., 186,000 miles or so per second; for the sun’s heat ceases to be perceptible the moment an eclipse becomes total, and is perceived again the instant the edge of the sun’s disk is visible, (c) Reflexion: the law must be exactly the same, for the heat-producing rays from a star are concentrated by Lord Rosse’s great reflector along with its light. (d) Refraction: when a lens is not achromatic its principal focus for red rays is farther off than that for blue rays; that for dark heat is still farther off. Herschel’s determination of the warmest region of the spectrum (§ 4 above) is another case in point. (e) Oblique radiation : an illuminated or a self-luminous surface appears equally bright however it is inclined to the line of sight. The radiation of heat from a hot blackened surface (through an aperture which it appears to fill) is sensibly the same however it be inclined (Leslie, Fourier, Mellon!).    (/) Intensity: when
there is no absorption by the way the intensity of the light received from a luminous point-source is inversely as the square of the distance. The same is true of dark heat. But this is not a new analogy; it is a mere consequence of (a) rectilinear propagation, (g) Selective absorption : light which has been sifted by passing through one plate of blue glass passes in much greater percentage through a second plate of the same glass, and in still greater percentage through a third. The same is true of radiant heat, even when the experiment is made with uncoloured glass; for clear glass absorbs certain colours of dark heat more than others (De Laroche, Melloni). (h) Interference bands, whether produced by two mirrors or by gratings, characterize dark heat as well as light; only they indicate longer waves (Fizeau and Foucault), (i) Polarization and double refraction : with special apparatus, such as plates of mica split by heat into numerous parallel films, the polarization of dark heat is easily established. When two of these bundles are so placed as to intercept the heat, an unsplit film of mica interposed between them allows the heat to pass, or arrests it, as it is made to rotate in its own plane (Forbes), (j) By proper chemical adjustments photographs of a region of the solar spectrum beyond the visible red have been obtained (Abney). We might mention more, but those given above, when considered together, are conclusive. In fact (b) or (i) alone would almost settle the question.
7.    But there is a superior as well as an inferior limit of visible rays. Light whose period of vibration is too small to produce any impression on the optic nerve can be degraded by fluorescence (see Light) into visible rays, and can also be detected by its energetic action on various photographic chemicals. In fact photographic portraits can be taken in a room which appears absolutely dark to the keenest eyesight. By one or other of these processes the solar spectrum with its dark lines and the electric arc with its bright lines have been delineated to many times the length of their visible ranges. The electric arc especially gives (in either of these ways) a spectrum of extraordinary length; for we can examine it, as we can not examine sunlight, before it has suffered any sensible absorption.
8.    Thus radiation is one phenomenon, and (as we shall find) the spectrum of a black body (a conception roughly realized in the carbon poles of an electric lamp) is continuous from the longest possible wave-length to the shortest which it is hot enough to emit. These various groups of rays, however, are perceived by us in very different ways, whether by direct impressions of sense or by the different modes in which they effect physical changes or transformations. The only way as yet known to us of treating them all alike is to convert their energy into the heat-form and measure it as such. This we can do in a satisfactory manner by the thermo-electric pile and galvanometer.
9.    Of the history of the gradual development of the theory of radiation we can give only the main features. The apparent concentration of cold by a concave mirror, which had been long before observed by Porta, was rediscovered by Pictet, and led to the extremely important enunciation of the Law of Exchanges by Prévost in 1791. As we have already seen, Prévost’s idea of the nature of radiation was a corpuscular one, no doubt greatly influenced in this direction by the speculations of Lesage (see Atom). But the value of his theory as a concise statement of facts and a mode of co-ordinating them is not thereby materially lessened. We give his own statements in the following close paraphrase, in which the italics are retained, from sect. ix. of his Du Calorique Rayonnant (Geneva, 1809).
“1. Free caloric is a radiant fluid. And because caloric becomes free at the surfaces of bodies every point of the surface of a body is a centre, towards and from which filaments (filets) of caloric move in all directions.
“2. Heat equilibrium between two neighbouring free spaces consists in equality of exchange.
‘ ‘ 3. When equilibrium is interfered with it is re-established by inequalities of exchange. And, in a medium of constant temperature, a hotter or a colder body reaches this temperature according to the law that difference of temperature diminishes in geometrical 'progression in successive equal intervals of time.
“4. If into a locality at uniform temperature a reflecting or refracting surface is introduced, it has no effect in the way of changing the temperature at any point in that locality.
“5. If into a locality otherwise at uniform temperature there is introduced a warmer or a colder body, and next a reflecting or refracting surface, the points on which the rays emanating from the body are thrown by these surfaces will be affected, in the sense of being warmed if the body is warmer, and cooled if it is colder.
“ 6. A reflecting body, heated or cooled in its interior, will acquire the surrounding temperature more slowly than would a non-reflector.
“ 7. A reflecting body, heated or cooled in its interior, will less affect (in the way of heating or cooling it) another body placed at a little distance than would a non-reflecting body under the same circumstances.
“ All these consequences have been verified by experiment, except that which regards the refraction of cold. This experiment remains to be made, and I confidently predict the result, at least if the refraction of cold can be accurately observed. This result is indicated in the fourth and fifth consequences [above], and they might thus be subjected to a new test. It is scarcely necessary to point out here the precautions requisite to guard against illusory results of all kinds in this matter.”
10.    There the matter rested, so far as theory is concerned, for more than half a century. Leslie and, after him, many others added fact by fact, up to the time of De la Provostaye and Desains, whose experiments pointed to a real improvement of the theory in the form of specialization. But, though such experiments indicated, on the whole, a proportionality between the radiating and absorbing powers of bodies and a diminution of both in the case of highly reflecting surfaces, the anomalies frequently met with (depending on the then unrecognized colour-differences of various radiations) prevented any grand generalization. The first real step of the general theory, in advance of what Prévost had achieved, and it was one of immense import, was made by Balfour Stewart in 1858. Before we take it up, however, we may briefly consider Prévost’s statements, putting aside his erroneous views as to the nature of heat ; and we must also introduce some results of the splendid investigations of Sadi Carnot (1824), which cast an entirely new light on the whole subject of heat.
11.    Prévost’s leading idea was that all bodies, whether cold or hot, are constantly radiating heat. This of itself was a very great step. It is distinctly enunciated in the term “ exchange ” which he employs. And from the way in which he introduces it it is obvious that he means (though he does not expressly say so) that the radiation from a body depends on its own nature and temperature alone, and is independent altogether of the nature and temperature of any adjacent body. This also was a step in advance, and of the utmost value. It will be seen later that Prévost was altogether wrong in his assumption of the geometrical rate of adjustment of differences of temperature,—a statement originally made by Newton, but true only approximately, and even so for very small temperature differences alone. Newton in the Queries to the third book of his Optics distinctly recognizes the propagation of heat from a hot body to a cold one by the vibrations of an intervening medium. But he says nothing as to bodies of the same temperature.
12.    To Carnot we owe the proposition that the thermal motivity of a system cannot he increased by internal actions. A system in which all the parts are at the same temperature has no thermal motivity, for bodies at different temperatures are required in order to work a heat-engine, so as to convert part of their heat into work. Hence, if the contents of an enclosure which is impervious to heat are at any instant at one and the same temperature, no changes of temperature can take place among them. This is certainly true so far as our modes of measurement are concerned, because the particles of matter (those of a gas, for instance) are excessively small in comparison with the dimensions of any of our forms of apparatus for measuring temperatures. Something akin to this statement has often been assumed as a direct result of experiment : a number of bodies (of any kinds) within the same impervious enclosure, which contains no source of heat, will ultimately acquire the same temperature. This form is more general than that above, inasmuch as it involves considerations of dissipation of energy. Either of them, were it strictly true, would suffice for our present purpose. But neither statement can be considered as rigorously true. We may employ them, however, in our reasoning as true in the statistical sense ; but we must not be surprised if we should find that the assumption of their rigorous truth may in some special cases lead us to theoretical results which are inconsistent with experimental facts,—i.e., if we should find that deviations from an average, which are on far too minute a scale to be directly detected by any of our most delicate instruments, may be seized upon and converted into observable phenomena by some of the almost incomparably more delicate systems which we call individual particles of matter.
13.    The next great advance was made by Balfour Stewart.@@1 The grand novelty which he introduced, and from which all his varied results follow almost intuitively, is the idea of the absolute uniformity (qualitative as well as quantitative) of the radiation at all points, and in all directions, within an enclosure impervious to heat, when thermal equilibrium has once been arrived at. (So strongly does he insist on this point that he even states that, whatever be the nature of the bodies in the enclosure, the radiation there will, when equilibrium is established, be that of a black body at the same temperature. He does not expressly say that the proposition will still be true even if the bodies can radiate, and therefore absorb, one definite wave-length only ; but this is a legitimate deduction from his state-
@@@1 Trans. Ii. S. E., 1858 ; see also Phil. Mag., 1863, i. p. 354.
ments. To this we will recur.) His desire to escape the difficulties of surface-reflexion led him to consider the radiation inside an imperfectly transparent body in the enclosure above spoken of. He thus arrived at an immediate proof of the existence of internal radiation, which recruits the stream of radiant heat in any direction step by step precisely to the amount by which it has been weakened by absorption. Thus the radiation and absorption rigorously compensate one another, not merely in quantity but in quality also, so that a body which is specially absorptive of one particular ray is in the same proportion specially radiative of the same ray, its temperature being the same in both cases. To complete the statement, all that is necessary is to show how one ray may differ from another, viz., in intensity, wave-length, and polarization.
14.    The illustrations which Stewart brought forward in support of his theory are of the two following kinds. (1) He experimentally verified the existence of internal radiation, to which his theory had led him. This he did by showing that a thick plate of rock-salt (chosen on account of its comparative transparency to heat-radiations) radiates more than a thin one at the same temperature,—surrounding bodies being in this case of course at a lower temperature, so that the effect should not be masked by transmission. The same was found true of mica and of glass. (2) He showed that each of these bodies is more opaque to radiations from a portion of its own substance than to radiation in general. Then comes his conclusion, based, it will be observed, on his fundamental assumption as to the nature of the equilibrium radiation in an enclosure. It is merely a detailed explanation that, once equilibrium has been arrived at, the consequent uniformity of radiation throughout the interior of a body requires the step-by-step compensation already mentioned. And thus he finally arrives at the statement that at any temperature a body’s radiation is exactly the same both as to quality and quantity as that of its absorption from the radiation of a black body at the same temperature. In symbolical language Stewart’s proposition (extended in virtue of a principle always assumed) amounts to this:—at any one temperature let R be the radiation of a black body, and eR (where e is never greater than 1) that of any other substance, both for the same definite wave-length; then the substance will, while at that temperature, absorb the fraction e of radiation of that wave-length, whatever be the source from which it comes. The last clause contains the plausible assumption already referred to. Stewart proceeds to show, in a very original and ingenious way, that his result is compatible with the known facts of reflexion, refraction, &c., and arrives at the conclusion that for internal radiation parallel to a plane the amount is (in isotropic bodies) proportional to the refractive index. Of course, when the restriction of parallelism to a plane is removed the internal radiation is found to be proportional to the square of the refractive index. This obvious completion of the statement was first given by Stewart himself at a somewhat later date.
15.    So far Stewart had restricted his work to “dark heat,” as it was then called; and he says that he did so expressly in order to confine himself to rays “ which were universally acknowledged to produce heat by their absorption.” But he soon proceeded to apply himself to luminous radiations. And here he brought forward the extremely important fact that “ coloured glasses invariably lose their colour in the fire ” when exactly at the temperature of the coals behind them, i.e., they compensate exactly for their absorption by their radiation. But a red glass when colder than the coals behind appears red, while if it be hotter than they are it appears green. He also showed that a piece of china or earthenware with a dark pattern on a light ground appears to have a light pattern on a
dark ground when it is taken out of the fire and examined in a dark room. Hence he concluded that his extension of Prevost’s theory was true for luminous rays also.
16.    In this part of the subject he had been anticipated, for Fraunhofer had long ago shown that the flame of a candle when examined by a prism gives bright lines (i.e., maxima of intensity of radiation) in the position of the constituents of a remarkable double dark line (i.e., minima of radiation) in the solar spectrum, which he called D. Hallows Miller had afterwards more rigorously verified the exact coincidence of these bright and dark lines. But Foucault@@1 went very much farther, and proved that the electric arc, which shows these lines bright in its spectrum, not only intensifies their blackness in the spectrum of sunlight transmitted through it, but produces them as dark lines in the otherwise continuous spectrum of the light from one of the carbon points, when that light is made by reflexion to pass through the arc. Stokes about 1850 pointed out the true nature of the connexion of these phenomena, and illustrated it by a dynamical analogy drawn from sound. He stated his conclusions to Sir W. Thomson,@@2 who (from 1852 at least) gave them regularly in his public lectures, always pointing out that one constituent of the solar atmosphere is certainly sodium, and that others are to be discovered by the coincidences of solar dark lines with bright lines given by terrestrial substances rendered incandescent in the state of vapour. Stokes’s analogy is based on the fact of synchronism (long ago discussed by Hooke and others), viz., that a musical string is set in vibration when the note to which it is tuned is sounded in its neighbourhood. Hence we have only to imagine a space containing a great number of such strings, all tuned to the same note. Such an arrangement would form, as it were, a medium which, when agitated, would give that note, but which would be set in vibration by, and therefore diminish the intensity of, that particular note in any mixed sound which passed through it.
17.    Late in 1859 appeared Kirchhoff’s first paper on the subject.@@3 He supplied one important omission in Stewart’s development of the theory by showing why it is necessary to use as an absorbing body one colder than the source in order to produce reversal of spectral lines. This we will presently consider. Kirchhoff’s proof of the equality of radiating and absorbing powers is an elaborate but unnecessary piece of mathematics, called for in consequence of his mode of attacking the question. He chose to limit his reasoning to special wave-lengths by introducing the complex mechanism of the colours of thin plates (Light, vol. xiv. p. 608), and a consequent appeal to Fourier’s theorem (Haemonic Analysis, vol. xi. p. 481), instead of to the obviously permissible assumption of a substance imperfectly transparent for one special wave-length, but perfectly transparent for all others; and he did not, as Stewart had done, carry his reasoning into the interior of the body. With all its elaboration, his mode of attacking the question leads us no farther than could Stewart’s. Both are ultimately based on the final equilibrium of temperature in an enclosure required by Carnot’s principle, and both are, as a consequence, equally inapplicable to exceptional cases, such as the behaviour of fluorescent or phosphorescent substances. In fact (see Thekmodynamics) Carnot’s principle is established only on a statistical basis of averages, and is not necessarily true when we are dealing with portions of space, which, though of essentially finite dimensions, are extremely small in comparison with the sentient part of even the tiniest instrument for measuring temperature.
@@@1    L'Institut, 7th February 1849 ; see Phil. Mag., 1860, i. p. 193.
@@@    Pogg. Ann., or Phil. Mag., 1S60.
@@@    Brit. Assoc., President’s address, 1871.
18.    Kirchhoff’s addition to Stewart’s result may be given as follows. Let radiation r, of the same particular wavelength as that spoken of in § 14, fall on the substance; er of it will be absorbed, and (1 -e)r transmitted. This will be recruited by the radiation of the substance itself, so that the whole amount for that particular wave-length becomes (1 - e)r + eR, or r - e(r - R). Thus the radiation is weakened only when R<r, a condition which requires that the source (even if it be a black body) should be at a higher temperature than the absorbing substance (§ 4, above). But the converse is, of course, not necessarily true. This part of the subject, as well as the special work of Kirchhoff and of Bunsen, belongs properly to spectrum analysis (see Spectroscopy).
19.    From the extension of Prevost’s theory, obtained in either of the ways just explained, we see at once how the constancy of the radiation in an enclosure is maintained. In the neighbourhood of and perpendicular to the surfaces of a black body it is wholly due to radiation, near a transparent body wholly to transmission. A body which reflects must to the same extent be deficient in its radiation and transmission; thus a perfect reflector can neither radiate nor transmit. And a body which polarizes by reflexion must supply by radiation what is requisite to render the whole radiation unpolarized. A body, such as a plate of tourmaline, which polarizes transmitted light, must radiate light polarized in the same plane as that which it absorbs. Kirchhoff and Stewart independently gave this beautiful application.
20.    Empirical formulae representing more or less closely the law of cooling of bodies, whether by radiation alone or by simultaneous radiation and convection, have at least an historic interest. What is called Newton’s Law of Cooling was employed by Fourier in his Theorie Analytique de la Chaleur. Here the rate of surface-loss was taken as proportional to the excess of temperature over surrounding bodies. For small differences of temperature it is accurate enough in its applications, such as to the corrections for loss of heat in experimental determinations of specific heat, <kc., but it was soon found to give results much below the truth, even when the excess of temperature was only 10° C.
21.    Dulong and Petit, by carefully noting the rate of cooling of the bulb of a large thermometer enclosed in a metallic vessel with blackened walls, from which the air had been as far as possible extracted and which was maintained at a constant temperature, were led to propound the exponential formula AA + B to represent the radiation from a black surface at temperature t. As this is an exponential formula, we may take t as representing absolute temperature, for the only result will be a definite change of value of the constant A. Hence if t0 be the temperature of the enclosure, the rate of loss of heat should be A (a1 - al °), or Ao.\u}־to - 1). The quantity A was found by them to depend on the nature of the radiating surface, but a was found to have the constant value 10077־. As the approximate accuracy of this expression was verified by the experiments of De la Provostaye and Desains for temperature differences up to 200° C., it may be well to point out two of its consequences. (1) For a given difference of temperatures the radiation is an exponential function of the lower (or of the higher) temperature. (2) For a given temperature of the enclosure the radiation is as (10-1(0077־, or 0(1+000380־+ . . . ), where 0 is the temperature excess of the cooling body. Thus the Newtonian law gives 4 per cent, too little at 10° C. of difference.
22. Dulong and Petit have also given an empirical formula for the rate of loss by simultaneous radiation and convection. This is of a highly artificial character, the part due to radiation being as in the last section, while that due to convection is independent of it, and also of the
nature of the surface of the cooling body. It is found to be proportional to a power of the pressure of the surrounding gas (the power depending on the nature of the gas), and also to a definite power of the temperature excess. The reader must be referred to French treatises, especially that of Desains, for further information.
23.    Our knowledge of the numerical rate of surface-emission is as yet scanty, but the following data, due to Nicol,@@1 may be useful in approximate calculations. Loss in heat units (1 lb water raised 1° C. in temperature) per square foot per minute, from
Bright copper ...............142־0 51־0 09־
Blackened copper............235־1    46־1 03־.
The temperatures of body and enclosure were 58° C. and 8° C., and the pressure of contained air in the three columns was about 30, 4, and 04־ inches of mercury respectively. The enclosure was blackened.
24.    Scanty as is our knowledge of radiation, it is not at all surprising that that of convection should be almost nil, except as regards some of its practical applications. Here we have to deal with a problem of hydrokinetics of a character, even in common cases, of far higher difficulty than many hydrokinetic problems of which not even approximate solutions have been obtained.
25.    What is called Doppler’s Principle (Light, vol. xiv. p. 614) has more recently@@2 led Stewart to some curious speculations, which a simple example will easily explain. Suppose two parallel plates of the same substance, perfectly transparent except to one definite wave-length, to be moving towards or from one another. Each, we presume, will radiate as before, and on that account cool; but the radiation which reaches either is no longer of the kind which alone it can absorb, whether it come directly from the other, or is part of its own or of the other’s radiation reflected from the enclosure. Hence it would appear that relative motion is incompatible with temperature equilibrium in an enclosure, and thus that there must be some effect analogous to resistance to the motion. We may get over this difficulty if we adopt the former speculation of Stewart, referred to in brackets in § 13 above. For this would lead to the result that, as soon as either of the bodies has cooled, ever so slightly, the radiation in the enclosure should become that belonging to a black body of a slightly higher temperature than before, and thus the plates would be furnished with radiation which they could at once absorb, and be gradually heated to their former temperature.
26. A very recent speculation, founded by Boltzmann@@3 upon some ideas due to Bartoli, is closely connected in principle with that just mentioned. This speculation is highly interesting, because it leads to an expression for the amount of the whole radiation from a black body in terms of its absolute temperature. Boltzmann’s investigation may be put, as follows, in an exceedingly simple form. It was pointed out by Clerk Maxwell, as a result of his electro-magnetic theory of light, that radiation falling on the surface of a body must produce a certain pressure. It is easy to see (most simply by the analogy of the virial equation, Mechanics, vol. xv. p. 719) that the measure of the pressure per square unit on the surface of an impervious enclosure, in which there is thermal equilibrium, must be one-third of the whole energy of radiation per cubic unit of the enclosed space. We may now consider a reversible engine conveying heat from one black body to another at a different temperature, by operations alternately of the isothermal and the adiabatic character (Thermodynamics), which consist in altering the volume of the en-
@@@1    Proc. R. S. E., vii. 1870, p. 206.
@@@2    Brit. Assoc. Report, 1871.
@@@3    Wiedemann's Ann., 1884, xxii.
closure, with or without one of the bodies present in it. For one of the fundamental equations gives dE dp d¿1 ־, Jt lh
where t is the absolute temperature. If / be the pressure on unit surface, 3/ is the energy per unit of volume, and this equation becomes
Hence it follows at once that, if the fundamental assumptions be granted, the energy of radiation of a black body per unit volume of the enclosure is proportional to the fourth power of the absolute temperature. It is not a little remarkable that Stefan @@1 had some years previously shown that this very expression agrees more closely with the experimental determinations of Dulong and Petit than does their own empirical formula.
27.    It would appear from this expression that, if an impervious enclosure containing only one black body in thermal equilibrium is separated into two parts by an impervious partition, any alteration of volume of the part not containing the black body will produce a corresponding alteration of the radiation in its interior. It will now correspond to that of a second black body, whose temperature is to that of the first in the inverse ratio of the fourth roots of the volumes of the detached part of the enclosure.
28.    Lecher@@2 has endeavoured to show that the distribution of energy among the constituents of the radiation from a black body does not alter with temperature. Such a result, though apparently inconsistent with many well-known facts, appears to be consistent with and to harmonize many others. It accords perfectly with the notion of the absolute uniformity (statistical) of the energy in an enclosure, and its being exactly that of a black body, even if the contents (as in § 25) consist of a body which can radiate one particular quality of light alone. And if this be the case it will also follow that the intensity of radiation of any one wave-length by any one body in a given state depends on the temperature in exactly the same way as does the whole radiation from a black body. Unfortunately this last deduction does not accord with Melloni’s results; at least the discrepance from them would appear to be somewhat beyond what could fairly be set down to error of experiment. But it is in thorough accordance with the common assumption (§ 14) that the percentage absorption of any particular radiation does not depend on the temperature of the source. The facts of fluorescence and phosphorescence, involving the radiation of visible rays at temperatures where even a black body is invisible, have not yet been dealt with under any general theory of radiation; though Stokes has pointed out a dynamical explanation of a thoroughly satisfactory character, they remain outside the domain of Carnot’s principle, (p. G. x.)
RADIOMETER. See Pneumatics, vol. xix. p. 249.
RADISH. See Horticulture, vol. xii. pp. 286, 287.
RADNOR, an inland county of South Wales, is situated between 52° 5' and 52° 25' N. lat. and between 2° 57' and 3° 25' W. long., and is bounded E. by Hereford and Shropshire, N. by Montgomery, W. by Cardigan, and S. by Brecknock. Its greatest length from north to south is about 30 miles, and its greatest breadth from east to west about 33 miles. The area is 276,552 acres, or 432 square miles.
The greater part of the surface of the county is hilly, and the centre is occupied by a mountainous tract called Radnor Forest, running nearly east and west, its highest summit reaching 2163 feet. Towards the south and south-east the hills are much less elevated and the valleys widen out into considerable plains, abounding with small rivulets. The hills for the most part present smooth and rounded outlines, but the valley of the Wye is famed for its beauty. The higher ranges are covered with heath, but there is good pasturage on the lower slopes. The smaller elevations are frequently clothed with wood. The prevailing strata are the Lower Silurian rocks; but in the east there is a considerable area occupied by Old Red Sandstone, and throughout the county felspathic ash and greenstone are found, while near Old Radnor there is a large patch of Silurian limestone. Lead and copper are said to exist, but not in quantities sufficient to pay the working. There are saline, sulphurous, and chalybeate wells at Llandrindod. The Wye enters the county in the north-west, 18 miles from its source in Plinlimmon, and flowing in a south-easterly direction divides it from Brecknock, until it bends north-east and reaches Hay, after which it for some distance forms the boundary with Hereford. Its principal tributary is the Ithon, which flows south-west and joins it 7 miles above Builth. The Teme, flowing southeast, forms the northern boundary of the county with Shropshire. The Llugw, rising in the northern part of the county, flows south-east into Hereford, a little below Presteigne.
@@@1    Sitzungsber. d. k. Ak. in Wien, 1879.
@@@2    Wiedemann’s Ann., 1882, xvii.
Agriculture.—The climate is somewhat damp, and in the spring cold and ungenial. The greater part of the county is suitable only for pasturage, but there is some good arable land in the valleys in the southern and south-eastern districts, which produces excellent crops of turnips, oats, and Welsh barley, the soil being chiefly open shaly clay, although in the east there is an admixture of red sandstone soils. In 1884 there wr ere 156,628 acres, or about five-ninths of the total area, under cultivation, and of these 114,242 acres, or about four-fifths, were in permanent pasture. Of the 21,356 acres under corn crops 12,245 acres, or more than half, were under oats, whilst wheat occupied 5200 acres and barley 3853. Green crops occupied only 7100 acres, of which 1107 were under potatoes and 5682 under turnips. Horses numbered 9249 (3755 used solely for agricultural purposes), cattle 30,917 (10,223 cows and heifers in milk or in calf), and sheep as many as 244,771. The inhabitants are dependent almost solely on agriculture, the manufactures being confined chiefly to coarse cloth, stockings, and flannel for home use.
Railways.—The county is intersected by several lines: the Central Wales Railway runs south-west from Knighton to Llandovery ; another line runs south-eastwards by Rhayader and Builth and joins the Hereford line, which passes by Hay and Talgarth ; while another branch line passes by Kineton to New Radnor.
Administration and Population.—Radnor comprises six hundreds, but contains no municipal borough. It has one court of quarter sessions and is divided into six petty and special sessional divisions. The ancient borough of Radnor (population 2005) is governed by the provisions of an old charter, and has a commission of the peace. The county contains sixty civil parishes with part of one other, and is partly in the diocese of St David’s and partly in that of Hereford. It returns one member to the House of Commons. The population in 1871 was 25,430 and in 1881 it was 23,528, of whom 11,939 were males and 11,589 females. ,The number of inhabited houses was 4775. The average number of persons to an acre was 009־ and of acres to a person 1175־.
History and Antiquities.—During the Roman occupation the district was included in the province of Siluria. The Roman road from Chester to Caermarthen entered the northern extremity of the county near Newtown and, following the valley of the Ithon, crossed the Wye and entered Brecknockshire near the town of Builth. There are remains of a Roman station at Cym near Llandrindod, and at Wapley Hill near Presteigne there is a very good example of a British camp. The district was afterwards included chiefly in Powis, but partly in Gwent and partly in Feryllwge. It was made a county by Henry VIII. Anciently it was called Maesy-fedd. The name Radnor is also of very great antiquity, and occurs in the Cambrian annals as early as 1196. There are no ancient castles claiming special notice, and the only ecclesiastical ruin of importance is that of the abbey of Cwm-Hir, founded for the Cistercians in 1143, and occupying a romantic situation in the vale of Clywedog. A considerable portion of the ancient building has been used as materials for the adjoining modern mansion.
RADOM, a government of Poland, occupying a triangular space between the Vistula and the Pilica and bounded on the N. by Warsaw and Siedlce, on the E. by Lublin, on the S. by Austrian Galicia and Ivielce, and on the W.
by Piotrkbw. The area is 4765 square miles. Its southern part stretches over the hilly plateau of Poland, which consists of short ridges of hills from 800 to 2000 feet in height, intersected by deep valleys, and is known as the Sandomir Heights. These heights are thickly wooded; the valleys, running west and east and watered by several tributaries of the Vistula, are excellently adapted for agriculture. Farther north in its central portion the contour of the government is level, the soil fertile, and the surface, which is diversified here and there with wood, is further broken up by occasional spurs, 800 feet in height, of the Lysa G6ra Mountains. The northern districts, where the Pilica joins the Vistula, consist of low flat tracts with undefined valleys, exposed to frequent floods and covered over large areas with marshes; the basin of the Pilica, notorious for its unliealthiness, is throughout a low marshy plain. Devonian, Carboniferous, Permian, and Triassic deposits appear in the southern plateau, Chalk and Jurassic in the middle, and Tertiary in the north. Wide tracts are covered with Glacial deposits,—the Scandinavian erratics reaching as far south as Ilza; these last in their turn are covered with widely spreading post-Glacial lacustrine deposits. The Vistula skirts the government on the south and east and is an important means of communication, several hundreds of light boats (gcilary) descending the river every year, while steamers ply as far up as S§domierz. The S§domierz district is occasionally exposed to disastrous inundations of the river. The tributaries of the Vistula (Radomka, Kamienna, and several others) are but short and small, while those of the Pilica are mere streams sluggishly flowing amidst marshes.
The population (644,830 in 1882) is Polish for the most part, one-seventh being Jews. According to creed the proportions are— Roman Catholic 840־ per cent., Jewish 146־, Protestant 13־, and Greek 0T per cent. The chief occupation of the inhabitants is agriculture, the principal crops being wheat, oats, rye, potatoes, and beetroot (for sugar). Corn is exported and potatoes largely used for distillation. In 1879 there were 148 manufacturing establishments (197 in 1883), employing 1708 hands, with an aggregate production of 2,121,000 roubles (£212,000), the more important being tanneries, flour-mills, sugar-works, and several machinery aud iron-works. These last are suffering, however, from want of wood-fuel, and many of them have recently been closed. Trade is not very extensive, the only channel of commerce being the Vistula. There is no lack of philanthropic institutions within the government (most of them founded early in this century), but nevertheless the sanitary condition of the people is deplorable. Plica polonica, which is endemic in the government of Radom as well as in that of Kielce, is widely diffused, no fewer than 15,000 persons suffering from it, and cognate maladies, such as goitre, scabies, and tinea capitis, are also widely prevalent.
The educational institutions include two lycees or gymnasia and two progymnasia (all at Radom), with 813 male and 287 female pupils, a normal school, a theological seminary at Sandomir, and 170 primary schools (112 in villages), with 8465 scholars.
The government is divided into eight districts, the chief towns of which are—Radom, Ilza (2750), Konsk (6275), Kozienice (5690), Opatow (5200), Opoczno (5585), and Sgdomierz or Sandomir (6265, or 14,710 including suburbs). Zavihvost (3700) is an important custom-house. Ostrowiec (5290), Staszow (6910), Przedborz (6345), and Szidlowiec (5290) have municipal institutions.
RADOM, capital of the above government, situated on the Mleczna, a tributary of the Radomka, 65 miles south from Warsaw, is one of the best-built provincial towns of Poland. Lublin Street has a number of fine shops, and there are two well-kept public gardens. The permanent population in 1882 was 12,970, half of whom were Jews, and the town is rapidly growing towards the south-east. Though an old town, Radom has no interesting antiquities. The church of St Wlaclaw, contemporary with the foundation of the town, was transformed by the Austrians into a storehouse, and subsequently by the Russian Government into a military prison. The old castle is in ruins, and the old Bernardine monastery is now used as barracks. The manufactures are unimportant, but trade has been lately increasing.
Radom, which is mentioned in historical documents of the year 1216, at that time occupied the site of what is now Old Radom. New Radom was founded in 1340 by Casimir the Great. Here Jadwiga was elected queen of Poland in 1382, and here too in 1401 the first act relating to the union of Poland with Lithuania was signed ; the “seim ” of 1505, where the organic law of Poland was sworn by the king, was also held at Radom. Several great fires, and still more the Swedish War, were the ruin of the old city. After the third partition of Poland it fell under Austrian rule; later on, in 1809, it became capital of the Radom department of the grand-duchy of Warsaw. In 1815 it was annexed to Russia and became chief town of the province of Sandomir.
RAEBURN, Sir Henry (1756-1823), portrait-painter, was born at Stockbridge, a suburb of Edinburgh, on the 4th of March 1756, the son of a manufacturer of the city. He was early left an orphan. Being placed in Heriot’s Hospital, he received there the elements of a sound education, and at the age of fifteen was apprenticed to a goldsmith in Edinburgh. Here he had some little opportunity for the practice of the humbler kinds of art, and various pieces of jewellery, mourning rings and the like, adorned with minute drawings on ivory by his hand, are still extant. Soon he took to the production of carefully finished miniatures ; and, meeting with success and patronage, he extended his practice to oil-painting, being all the while quite self-taught. The worthy goldsmith his master watched the progress of his pupil with interest, gave him every encouragement, and introduced him to David Martin, who had been the favourite assistant of Allan Ramsay junior, and was now the leading portrait-painter in Edinburgh. Raeburn received considerable assistance from Martin, and was especially aided by the loan of portraits to copy. Soon the young painter had gained sufficient skill to render it advisable that he should devote himself exclusively to art. When in his twenty-second year he was asked to paint the portrait of a young lady whom he had previously observed and admired when he was sketching from nature in the fields. She was the daughter of Peter Edgar of Bridgelands and widow of Count Leslie. The lady was speedily fascinated by the handsome and intellectual young artist, and in a month she became his wife, bringing him an ample fortune. After the approved fashion of artists of the time, it was resolved that Raeburn should visit Italy, and he accordingly started with his wife. In London he was kindly received by Sir Joshua Reynolds, who gave him excellent advice as to his study in Rome, especially recommending to his attention the works of Michelangelo. He also offered him more substantial pecuniary aid, which was declined as unneeded; but Raeburn carried with him to Italy many valuable introductions from the president of the Academy. In Rome he made the acquaintance of Gavin Hamilton, of Batoni, and of Byers. For the advice of the last-named he used to acknowledge himself greatly indebted, and particularly for the recommendation that “ he should never copy an object from memory, but, from the principal figure to the minutest accessory, have it placed before him.” After two years of study in Italy he returned to Edinburgh in 1787, where he began a most successful career as a portrait-painter. In that year he executed an admirable seated portrait of the second Lord President Dundas.
Of his earlier portraiture we have interesting examples in the bust-likeness of Mrs Johnstone of Baldovie and in the three-quarter-length of Dr James Hutton, works which, if they are somewhat timid and tentative in handling and wanting in the trenchant brush-work and assured mastery of subsequent productions, are full of delicacy and character. The portraits of John Clerk, Lord Eldin, and of Principal Hill of St Andrews belong to a somewhat later period. Raeburn was fortunate in the time in which he practised portraiture. Sir Walter Scott, Blair, Mackenzie,
Woodhouselee, Robertson, Home, Ferguson, and Dugald Stewart were resident in Edinburgh, and they were all, along with a host of others less celebrated, immortalized on the painter’s canvas. Of his fully matured manner we could have no finer examples than his own portrait and that of the Rev. Sir Henry Moncreiff Wellwood, the bust of Dr Wardrop of Torbane Hill, the two full-lengths of Adam Rolland of Gask and that of William Macdonald of St Martin’s. It was commonly believed that Raeburn was less successful in his female than in his male portraits, but the exquisite full-length of his wife, the smaller likeness of Mrs R. Scott Moncrieff in the Scottish National Gallery, and that of Mrs Robert Bell are sufficient to prove that he could on occasion portray all the grace and beauty of the gentler sex.
Raeburn spent his life in Edinburgh, rarely visiting the metropolis, and then only for brief periods, thus preserving his own sturdy individuality, if he missed the opportunity of engrafting on it some of the fuller refinement and delicacy of the London portraitists. His leisure was employed in athletic sports, in his garden, and in architectural and mechanical pursuits, and so varied were the interests that filled his life that his sitters used to say of him, “You would never take him for a painter till he seizes the brush and palette.” Professional honours fell thick upon him. In 1812 he was elected president of the Society of Artists in Edinburgh, in 1814 associate, and in the following year full member of the Royal Academy. In 1822 he was knighted by George IV. and appointed His Majesty’s limner for Scotland. He died at Edinburgh on the 8th of July 1823.
In his own day the portraits of Raeburn were excellently and voluminously engraved, especially by the last members of the great school of English mezzotint. In 1876 a collection of over 300 of his works was brought together in the Royal Scottish Academy galleries ; in the following year a series of twelve of his iinest portraits was included in the winter exhibition of the Royal Academy, London ; and a volume of photographs from his paintings has been edited by Dr John Brown.
Raeburn possessed all the necessary requirements of a popular and successful portrait-painter. He had the power of producing a telling and forcible likeness ; his productions are distinguished by breadth of effect, by admirable force of handling, by execution of the swiftest and most resolute sort. Wilkie has recorded that, while travelling in Spain and studying the works of Velazquez, the brash-work of that master reminded him constantly of the “square touch” of Raeburn. But the portraits of Velazquez are unsurpassable examples of tone as well as of handling, and it is in the former quality that Raeburn is distinctly wanting. The colour of his portraits is sometimes crude and out of relation, inclining to the use of positive and definite local pigments, and too little perceptive of the changeful subtilties and modifications of atmospheric effect. His draperies frequently consist of little more than two colours—the local hue of the fabric and the black which, more or less graduated, expresses its shadows and modelling. In his flesh, too, he wants—in all but his very best productions— the delicate refinements of colouring which distinguish the works of the great English portrait-painters. His faces, with all their excellent truth of form and splendid vigour of handling, are often hard and bricky in hue.
RAFF, Joseph Joachim (1822-1882), composer and orchestral conductor, was born near Zurich on 27th May 1822 and educated chiefly at Schwyz. Here, under the care of the Jesuit fathers, he soon became an excellent classical and mathematical scholar, but received scarcely any instruction in his favourite art, in which, nevertheless, he made extraordinary progress through sheer force of natural genius, developed by persevering study which no external obstacles could induce him to discontinue. So successful were his unaided efforts that, when in 1843 he sent some MSS. to Mendelssohn, that warm encourager of youthful talent felt justified in at once recommending him to Breitkopf & Hartel of Leipsic, who published a large selection of his early works. Soon after this he became acquainted with Liszt, who gave him much generous
encouragement. He first became personally acquainted with Mendelssohn at Cologne in 1846, and gave up all his other engagements for the purpose of following him to Leipsic, but his intention was frustrated by the great composer’s death in 1847. After this cruel disappointment he remained for some time at Cologne, where his attention was alternately devoted to composition and to the ¡)reparation of critiques for the well-known periodical Cacilia. Thus far he must be regarded as, in every sense of the word, a self-taught artist ; but he felt the need of systematic instruction so deeply that, retiring for a time from public life, he entered at Stuttgart upon a long course of severe and uninterrupted study, and with so great success that in 1850 he appeared before the world in the character of an accomplished and highly-cultivated musician. Raff now settled for a time in Weimar in order to be near Liszt. Hans von Biilow had already brought him into notice by playing his Concertstiick for pianoforte and orchestra in public, and the favour with which this fine work was everywhere received encouraged him to attempt a greater one. During his stay in Stuttgart he had begun the composition of an opera entitled K'&nig Alfred, and had good hope of securing its performance at Dresden; but the political troubles with which Germany was then overwhelmed rendered its production in the Saxon capital impossible. At Weimar he was more fortunate. In due time K'&nig Alfred was produced there under Liszt’s able direction with complete success ; it is still frequently performed at the court theatre, as is also his second opera, Dame Kobold, written for the same theatre in 1870. His third opera, Samson, has not yet, we believe, been publicly represented.
Raff remained at Weimar until 1856, when he obtained a large clientèle at Wiesbaden as a teacher of the pianoforte. In 1859 he married Doris Genast, an actress of high repute, and thenceforward devoted himself with renewed energy to the work of composition, displaying an inexhaustible fertility of invention tempered by an amount of technical skill which stamped even his lightest works with the dignity to which the union of natural talent with high artistic cultivation can alone give birth. He resided chiefly at Wiesbaden till 1877, when he was appointed director of the Hoch-Conservatorium at Frankfort, an office which he retained until his death, 25th June 1882.
Raff’s compositions are almost innumerable. More than 200 have been published, including ten symphonies—undoubtedly his finest works—quartets, concertos, sonatas, songs, and examples of nearly every known variety of style ; yet he never repeats himself. Notwithstanding his strong love for the- romantic school, he is never guilty of extravagance, and, if in his minor works he is sometimes a little commonplace, he never descends to vulgarity. His symphonies Lenore and Im Walde are truly wonderful examples of musical painting, and replete with poetry in every bar.
RAFFLES, Sir Thomas Stamford (1781-1826), the son of a captain in the West India trade, was born at sea off the coast of Jamaica on 5tli July 1781. Returning with his mother to England, he was placed in a boarding-school at Hammersmith, where he remained till the age of fourteen, when he entered the East India House as an extra clerk. While employed there he occupied his leisure hours in particularly studying languages, for which he possessed great facility. In 1805 the directors of the India House having resolved to found a new trading settlement at Penang, Raffles was appointed assistant-secretary, and on his voyage out he acquired the Malay language. Owing to the illness of the chief secretary, he soon had to undertake the entire administrative labour of the new government. In 1808 he had to visit Malacca to recruit his shattered strength ; here he enjoyed large opportunity of mingling with a very varied population, and, in company with the two Orientalists Marsden and
Leyden, he began his elaborate researches into the history, laws, and literature of the Hindu and Malay races. In zoology he took special interest, and on his return to England became founder and first president of the Zoological Society. While in Calcutta in 1809, Raffles suggested to Lord Minto, then governor-general of India, the desirableness of wresting Java from the French. The governor-general took up the idea with vigour; a fleet of ninety ships dropped anchor before Batavia in August 1811, and in a short time the conquest of the island was effected. Raffles was made lieutenant-general of the new territory, and resolved to give to the island a pure and upright administration. There were three sources of abuse to eradicate—the revenue system, the system of police and public justice, and the slave trade. In a period of only five years Raffles had almost effected his design; his popularity was secured, and the revenue was eight times larger than it had been under the Dutch. The policy of some of his measures being, however, considered doubtful by the home authorities, he was recalled in 1816, but his conduct was approved. He published a valuable and well-illustrated History of Java, in 2 vols. 4to, 1817.
Having received knighthood, Sir Stamford Raffles set out for Sumatra as lieutenant-governor of Bencoolen, arriving in March 1818, and immediately recommenced the work of reform. In 1819 he induced the marquis of Hastings to annex Singapore. He again visited Singapore, his “political child,” in 1822, and occupied himself for nearly a year in laying out the new city, and in establishing its constitution as a free port. Java had been given up to the Dutch shortly after Sir Stamford left it, and now Bencoolen was granted to them in exchange for Malacca. On setting sail for England from Sumatra in February 1824 the ship took fire and the crew and passengers were with difficulty saved. The loss to Sir Stamford was beyond all repair. The whole of his drawings, all his collections in botany and zoology, all his multitudinous papers and manuscripts, fell a prey to the flames, his pecuniary loss amounting to more than ¿£20,000. During one of his excursions into the interior of Sumatra, in company with Dr Arnold, he came upon the largest and most extraordinary of known flowers, the Rafflesia Amoldi (see Parasitism, vol. xviii. p. 265). In 1820 he sent home a large collection of preserved animals, now in the museum of the London Zoological Society, described in the Transactions of the Linnean Society. He died of apoplexy at his house near London on 5th July 1826.
RAFN, Carl Christian (1795-1864), Danish archas-ologist, was born in Brahesborg, Fünen, on 16th January 1795 and died at Copenhagen on 20th October 1864. He is chiefly known in connexion Math the controversy as to the question of the discovery of America by the Norsemen. (See America, vol. i. p. 706.)
RAGATZ, or Ragaz, a watering-place in Switzerland, in the canton of St Gall, ■with a station on the railway to Coire, 64 miles south-east of Zurich, stands 1700 feet above the sea at the mouth of the magnificent gorge through which the impetuous Tamina forces its way to the Rhine; its baths are supplied ■with mineral water from the hot springs of Pfäffers, which issue from the right side of the ravine 2| miles higher up. As the tourist centre for one of the most picturesque districts of Switzerland, Ragatz has greatly increased since the middle of the century. It had then only 650 inhabitants; in 1870 there were 1825, and in 1880 1996, while the annual number of visitors is about 50,000. In the churchyard is the grave of Schelling, who died at Ragatz in 1854. Ragatz originally belonged to the abbots of the Benedictine monastery of Pfäffers (713-1838); their residence became in 1840 the “Hof Ragatz” hotel, and in 1868 the whole property, which had been seized by the state in 1838, passed into private hands. The Swiss defeated the Austrians at Ragatz in 1446.
RAGLAN, Fitzroy James Henry Somerset, Baron (1788-1855), English general, was the eighth and youngest son of the fifth duke of Beaufort by Elizabeth, daughter of Admiral the Hon. Edward Boscawen, and was born on 30tli September 1788. He entered the army in 1804. In 1807 he was attached to the Hon. Sir Arthur Paget’s embassy to Turkey, and the same year he ־«, as selected to serve on the staff of Sir Arthur Wellesley in the expedition to Copenhagen. In the following year he accompanied the same general in a like capacity to Portugal, and during the whole of the Peninsular War was at his right hand, first as aide-de-camp and then as military secretary. He specially distinguished himself at the storming of Badajoz, being the first to mount the breach, and it was to him that the governor delivered up his sword. During the short period of the Bourbon rule in 1814 and 1815 he was secretary to the English embassy at Paris. On the renewal of the war he again became aide-de-camp and military secretary to the duke of Wellington. At Waterloo he lost his right arm by a shot, but he quickly gained the facility of writing with his left hand, and on the conclusion of the war resumed his duties as secretary to the embassy at Paris. From 1818 to 1826 he sat in the House of Commons as member for Truro. In 1819 he was appointed secretary to the duke of Wellington as master-general of the ordnance, and from 1827 till the death of the duke in 1852 was military secretary to him as commander-in-chief. He was then appointed master-general of the ordnance, and shortly afterwards was raised to the House of Lords as Baron Raglan. In 1854 he was appointed to the command of the English troops sent to the Crimea. Here the advantage of his training under the duke of Wellington was seen in the soundness of his military tactics, but the trying ־«, inter campaign in the Crimea also brought into prominence defects perhaps traceable to his long connexion with the formalities and uniform regulations of military offices in peace time. At the same time the hampering influence of a divided command must be taken into account, and it ought not to be forgotten that, if his advice had been adopted by the French at the beginning, Sebastopol would very probably have fallen in a few weeks after the landing of the allies. His suggestion was to march straight upon the north side of Sebastopol, but after the battle of Alma on 20th September the plan was abandoned, and the south side was reached by the desperate expedient of a perilous flank march. For the hardships and sufferings of the English soldiers in the terrible Crimean winter o«7 ing to a failure in the commissariat, both as regards food'and clothing, Lord Raglan and his staff were at the time severely censured by the press and the Government; but, while Lord Raglan was possibly to blame in representing matters in a too sanguine light, it afterwards appeared that the chief neglect rested with the home authorities. The monotony of the siege was broken by the battles of Balaclava on 26th October and of Inkermann on 5th November, in which the accurate and rapid decision of Lord Raglan changed impending disasters into brilliant victories. During the trying , «, inter of 1854-55 the suffering he «, as compelled to witness, the censures, in great part unjust, which he had to endure, and all the manifold anxieties of the siege seriously undermined his health, and he died of dysentery on 28th June 1855.
See Kinglake’s History of the Invasion of the Crimea.
RAGMAN ROLLS, the name given to the collection of instruments by which the nobility and gentry of Scotland were compelled to subscribe allegiance to Edward I of
England betAveen the conference of Norham in May 1291 and the final award in favour of Baliol in November 1292, and again in 1296. Of the former of these records two copies were preserved in the chapter-house at Westminster (now in the Record Office, London), and it has been printed by Rymer (Foedera, ii. 542). Another copy, preserved originally in the Tower of London, is now also in the Record Office. The latter record, containing the various acts of homage and fealty extorted by EdAvard from Baliol and others in the course of his progress through Scotland in the summer of 1296 and in August at the parliament of Benvick, was published by Prynne from the copy in the Tower and now in the Record Office. Both records were printed by the Bannatyne Club in 1834. The derivation of the word “ ragman ” has never been satisfactorily explained, but various guesses as to its meaning and a list of examples of its use for legal instruments both in England and Scotland Avili be found in the preface to the Bannatyne Club’s volume, and in Jamieson’s Dictionary, s.v. “Ragman.” The name of “ Ragman ” has been sometimes confined to the record of 1296, of which an account is given in Calendar of Documents relating to Scotland preserved in the Public Record Office, London (1884), vol. ii., Introd., p. xxiv. ; and as to the seals see p. lii. and appendix.
RAGUSA (Slavonic Dubrovnik, Turkish Paprovnik), a city on the east coast of the Adriatic, for many centuries an independent republic, now at the head of a district in the province of Dalmatia in Austria-Hungary. It is built close to the sea at the foot of the bare limestone mass of Monte Sergio, on which stands an unfinished Fort Impérial erected by the French. In front lies the island of Lacroma, the traditional landing-place of Cœur-de-Lion. Several ancient stone-built forts—San Lorenzo (11th century), Leverono (16th), &c.—defend the harbour, and the city is fenced in Avith lofty walls. The main street runs in a narroAv valley between the mountain and a seaward ridge; the valley Avas up till the 13th century a channel of the sea, and the seaward ridge was the rocky island of Lavve or Ragusa proper, opposite which lay among its pine trees the Slavonic settlement of Dubrovnik. Though still a fine street, this corso is not so imposing as before its palatial mansions were overthroAvn by the earthquake of 1667. It contains a 15th-century cistern, a church (Del Redentore) erected after the earthquake of 1536 to avert similar catastrophes, and a Franciscan monastery; and in the piazza off its southern extremity are the Palazzo Rettorale, or residence of the “rectors” of the republic (1435-52), the old custom-house and mint, completed in 1520, and the Torre del Orologio, with its curious clock. The “palace” is a marvellous specimen of late Romanesque influence, especially famous for the six columns of its façade and the alchemist group with which one of the capitals is decorated ; and the custom-house has also a fine Romanesque element in its style. The cathedral (dedicated to the Virgin Mary, though the patron saint of the city is St Blasius, whose effigy perpetually occurs on its coins, fortifications, and churches) is a building in the Italian taste of the 18th century. Ragusa can never have been a large city. In the 16th century it is said to have contained 30,000 or 40,000 inhabitants; in 1881 it had only 7245, and its commune, with its fifteen additional villages, 10,936. The harbour, once one of the great ports of southern Europe, is altogether too small for modern requirements, in spite of the new breakAvater constructed in 1873 to protect it from the south-west winds. From 400 to 600 vessels (mostly under 50 tons burden) enter yearly. The neighbouring harbour of Gravosa (Slav Gruz·, population 677) is the real port of Ragusa as far as steamboat traffic is concerned. The staple trade is that of oil ; but the whole supply is sent to the Trieste market.
Ragusan Malmsey, once famous, has disappeared before the vine-disease since 1852.
The history of Ragusa has been thus summarized by Mr Freeman :—“Those hills, the slopes of which begin in the streets of the city, once fenced in a ledge of Hellenic land from the native barbarians of Illyricum. Then they fenced in a ledge of Roman land from the Slavonic invader. Lastly they still fence in a ledge of Christian land from the dominion of the infidel.” The city was founded on a rocky island by Roman Christian refugees from Epidaurus (now Ragusa Vecchia, 675 inhabitants), in the middle, say some, of the 3d century after Christ ; and in the middle of the 7th century it was strengthened by other refugees from Salona, destroyed by the Slavs. In course of time a Slavic settlement was incorporated within its walls ; and thus by language and sympathies it became a link between two great civilizations. Ragusa1 maintained its independence against all comers partly by war but more by diplomacy. In the 9th century it more than once repulsed the Saracens, and in the 10th defended itself against Venice, the pirates of the Narenta, Samuel (czar of the Bulgarians), and the emperor Otho ; in the 11th century it was drawn by its alliance with Robert Guiscard into a war with Byzantium and Venice, and in the 12th century fought with the ban of Bosnia and with Stephen Nemanya of Servia, who twice invested the city. But its policy wa3 generally peaceful. To refugees of all nations, even to those who had been its own bitter foes, it afforded asylum ; and by means of treaty and tribute it gradually worked its way to a position of mercantile power which Europe could hardly parallel. A compact Avhich it made with the Turkish ruler at Broussa in 1370 was renewed by Bajazet in the 15th century and saved the little state from the fate of her most powerful neighbours, Byzantium and Servia. By that time Ragusa had stations at Serai, Bucharest, Tirgovisce, Widdin, Rustchuk, Sophia, and Adrianople ; and her vessels were known not only in Italy, Sicily, Spain, Greece, and the Levant, but in the more northern parts of Europe. Our own language retains in the word “ai־gosy” a relic of the carracks of Ragusa, then known to Englishmen as Argouse, Argusa, or Aragosa. As the world widened the Ragusan merchants went farther,—to India, even, and America. But the finest vessels of their fleet were compelled to join the Spanish Armada and shared its fate ; and the city, which had felt shocks of earthquake in 1520, 1521, 1536, and 1639, Avas in April 1667 laid utterly in ruins and lost a fifth of its inhabitants. “ The rector of the republic, five-sixths of the nobles, nine-tenths of the clergy, a Dutch ambassador Avith his suite of thirty-three on his Avay to Constantinople, and 6000 citizens Avere buried.” Ragusa never quite recovered its prosperity, though it Avas again a busy trading toAvn of 15,000 inhabitants when Napoleon seized it in 1806. In 1808 it Avas deprived of its independence ; and by the congress of Vienna in 1814 it was assigned to Austria. This is not the place to describe the remarkable literary development, Latin, Italian, and Slavonic, of Avhich Ragusa Avas the centre in the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries, and to which so many of its patricians contributed ; a detailed account will be found in Pypin and Spasovich’s History of Slavic Literatures (German edition, 1880). Gondulic (Gondola) the poet and Boscovich the mathematician are leading names.
See Engel, Geschichte von llagusa (Vienna, 1807) ; Makusheff, Investigations into the Historical Documents of Ragusa (in Russian, St Petersburg, 1867) ; Monumenta hist. Slavorum meridionalium (AVarsaAV, 1864) ; Appending Notizie storico-crit. sulle antichità, &c., dei Ragusei (Ragusa, 1802-3) ; Sir Gardner AViikinson, Dalmatia ; A. A. Paton, The Danube and Adriatic ; J. A. Evans, Thro' Bosnia and the Herzegovina, 1S76 ; E. A. Freeman, Subject and Neighbour Lands of Venice, 1881.
RAGUSA, a city of Italy in the province of Syracuse (Sicily), 16 miles east of Vittoria and 10 north-north-Avest of Modica, lies on the right side of the valley of the Ragusa or Erminio (Herminius). It consists of an upper toAvn Avith 24,183 inhabitants and a lotver toAATi with 6260 (1881), the two communes having a total population of 30,720. The church of Santa Maria della Scala is in part modern, but in part of considerable antiquity and interest ; and San Giorgio contains the tomb of Bernardo Caprera (ob. 1423), who tried to seize the crown of Sicily. Ragusa possesses a large cotton-factory.    Stone impreg
nated with petroleum is quarried in the Grotta Oleosa in the neighbourhood, and after the oil is burned out becomes an article of export under the name of pietra nera. The city, which Avas destroyed by earthquake in 1693, is of considerable antiquity, as is proved by the numerous ancient tombs existing in the district ; but whether it is to be identified Avith Hybla Herma is matter of opinion.
The name, of unknoAvn origin, appears as Rhaugia, Rhaugium,
Rhausium, Ragusium, Lavusa, Labuda, Labussedum, &c.
RAHEL. See Varnhagen von Ense.
RAHWAY, a city of the United States in Union county, New Jersey, 19 miles by rail south-west of New York, lies on Rahway river at the head of schooner navigation, about 4 miles above its mouth in Staten Island Sound. It is best known for its carriage-factories, but has also a wool-mill, a printing-press manufactory, a printing-house, a shirt-factory, a hunting-goods factory, etc. The population was 6258 in 1870 and 6455 in 1880. First settled in 1720 and named after Rahwack, the Indian owner of the site, Rahway was incorporated as a city in 1858.
RAI BARELI or Roy Bareilly, a district of British India, in the Rai Bareli division@@1 of Oudh, under the jurisdiction of the lieutenant-governor of the North-Western Provinces, has an area of 1738 square miles. It lies between 25° 49' and 26° 35' N. lat. and between 80° 45' and 81° 40' E. long., and is bounded on the N. by the districts of Lucknow and Bara Banki, on the E. by Sultanpur, on the S. by Partabgarh and the Ganges, and on the W. by Unao. The general aspect of the district is slightly undulating, and the country is beautifully wooded ; in fact, the beauty of the country is not to be surpassed by any part of the real plain of Hindustan. The soil is remarkably fertile, and the cultivation of a high class. The principal rivers of the district are the Ganges and the Sai: the former skirts it for 54 miles and is everywhere navigable for boats of 40 tons; the latter traverses it from north-west to south-east, a distance of 55 miles. Other rivers are the Basha, the Loni, and the Naiya. The indigenous products of Rai Bareli consist of several magnificent and useful timber trees, numerous kinds of grazing and thatching grasses, and a variety of rice known as “pasahi,” which grows wild in many tanks and marshes; its jungle products are lac and silk cocoons. Herds of wild cattle are to be found in the south of the district, near the Sai river, and do much harm to the crops; nylghau are common near the Ganges, and wolves are occasionally met with in the jungles.
According to the census of 1881 Rai Bareli district contains a population of 951,905 (males 466,906, females 484,999). By religion 874,180 are Hindus, 77,424 Mohammedans, and 123 Christians. The most numerous castes are the Ahirs (114,869), the Brahmans(113,212), and the Rajputs (70,757). Compared with other Oudh districts, the proportion of high castes is large, which is accounted for by the fact that Rai Bareli was for centuries the seat of Hindu authority and hut little controlled by the Mohammedan kings. The population is almost entirely rural, there being only three towns with a population exceeding 5000, viz., Rai Bareli (see below), Jais (11,044), and Dalmau (5367). The principal occupation of the people is agriculture. Of the total area 892 square miles were in 1882 returned as cultivated, 432 as cultivable, and 414 square miles as uncultivable. The greater portion of the cultivated area is two-crop land. The principal crops are rice, wheat, gram, arhar, and pease. In years of scarcity Rai Bareli is worse off than other districts, having no railway and only some 56 miles of water communication along its border. On the other hand, its masonry wells afford it a greater assurance against famine ; its drainage is superior to that of other districts ; it suffers comparatively less from floods ; and its area of artificial irrigation is so large that absolute famine ought to be almost unknown. The average rainfall of the district is 37 inches ; the rainfall is, however, very capricious and often deficient in the very months when it is most needed for agricultural purposes. Although possessing no railway communication, the district is well opened up by roads. Its gross revenue in 1882 was £153,072, of which £129,841 was derived from the land-tax. There are little trade and few manufactures, except cloth-weaving for local use, the making of brass and copper utensils, and glass ware.
RAI BARELI or Roy Bareilly, town and administrative headquarters of the above district, is situated on the
@@@1 Rai Bareli division comprises the three districts of Rai Bareli, Sultanpur, and Partabgarh, and contains an area of 4882 square miles, with a population (1881) of 2,756,864 (males 1,362,761, females 1,394,103). The great majority of the people are Hindus, of whom there are 2,493,536 ; the Mohammedans number 262,892 and the Christians 226.
banks of the Sai in 26° 14' N. lat. and 81° 17' E. long. It was founded by the Bhars, who called it Bharauli, but it was subsequently corrupted into Bareli. The prefix “ Rai ” is either derived from Rahi, a village near the town, or from the fact of its having been long in the possession of a Kayasth family bearing the name of Rai. The population of the town (1881) is 11,781 (males 5970, females 5811). It possesses many architectural features, chief of which is a spacious and strong fort erected in 1403, and constructed of bricks 2 feet long by 1 foot thick and 1| wide. Among its ancient buildings are the magnificent palace and tomb of Nawab Jahan Khan, the governor in the time of Aurangzeb, and four fine mosques.
RAIKES, Robert (1735-1811), the founder of Sunday schools, was the son of Robert Raikes, a printer in Gloucester and proprietor of the Gloucester Journal, and was born on 14th September 1735. On the death of his father in 1757 he succeeded him in the business, which he continued to conduct till 1802. Along with some others he started a Sunday school at Gloucester in 1780, and on his giving publicity to the enterprise in the columns of his journal the notice was copied into the London papers and awakened considerable attention. For nearly thirty years he continued actively engaged in the promotion of his undertaking, and he lived to witness its wide extension throughout England. He died on 5th April 1811. Among various accounts of the life and work of Raikes mention may be made of that by P. M. Eastman, 1880.
RAIL (German Balle, French Bâle, Low Latin Ballus), originally the English name of two birds, distinguished from one another by a prefix as Land-Rail and Water-Rail, but latterly applied in a much wider sense to all the species which are included in the Family Ballidæ of Ornithology.
The Land-Rail, also very commonly known as the Corn-Crake, and sometimes as the Daker-Hen, is the Ballus crex of Linnaeus and Crex pratensis of recent authors. Its monotonous grating cry, which has given it its common name in several languages, is a familiar sound throughout the summer nights in many parts of the British Islands ; but the bird at that season very seldom shews itself, except when the mower lays bare its nest, the owner of which, if it escape beheading by the scythe, may be seen for an instant before it disappears into the friendly covert of the still standing grass. In early autumn the partridge-shooter not unfrequently flushes it from a clover-field or tangled hedgerow ; and, as it rises with apparent labour and slowly flies away to drop into the next place of concealment, if it fall not to his gun, he wonders how so weak-winged a creature can ever make its way to the shores if not to the interior of Africa, whither it is almost certainly bound ; for, with comparatively few individual exceptions, the Land-Rail is essentially migratory—nay more than that, it is the Ortygometra of classical authors —supposed by them to lead the Quail (supra, p. 146) on its voyages—and in the course of its wanderings has now been known to reach the coast of Greenland, and several times that of North America, to say nothing of Bermuda, in every instance we may believe as a straggler from Europe or Barbary. The Land-Rail needs but a brief description. It looks about as big as a Partridge, but on examination its appearance is found to be very deceptive, and it will hardly ever weigh more than half as much. The plumage above is of a tawny brown, the feathers being longitudinally streaked with blackish brown ; beneath it is of a yellowish white ; but the flanks are of a light chestnut. The species is very locally distributed, and in a way for which there is at present no accounting. In some dry upland and corn-growing districts it is plentiful; in others, of apparently the same character, it but rarely occurs ; and
the same may be said in regard to low-lying marshy meadows, in most of which it is in season always to be heard, while in others having a close resemblance to them it is never met with. The nest is on the ground, generally in long grass, and therein from nine to eleven eggs are commonly laid. These are of a cream-colour, spotted and blotched with light red and grey. The young when hatched are thickly clothed with black down, as is the case in nearly all species of the Family.
The Water-Rail, locally known as the Skiddy or Bill-cock, is the Ballus aquaticus of Ornithology, and seems to be less abundant than the preceding, though that is in some measure due to its frequenting places into which from their swampy nature men do not often intrude. Having a general resemblance to the Land-Rail,@@1 it can be in a moment distinguished by its partly red and much longer bill, and the darker coloration of its plumage—the upper parts being of an olive brown with black streaks, the breast and belly of a sooty grey, and the flanks dull black barred with white. Its geographical distribution is very wide, extending from Iceland (where it is said to preserve its existence during winter by resorting to the hot springs) to China; and though it inhabits Northern India, Lower Egypt, and Barbary, it seems not to pass beyond the tropical line. It never affects upland districts as does the Land-Rail, but always haunts wet marshes or the close vicinity of water. Its love-note is a loud and harsh cry, not continually repeated as is that of the Land-Rail, but uttered at considerable intervals and so suddenly as to have been termed “explosive.” Besides this, which is peculiar to the cock-bird, it has a croaking call that is frog-like. The eggs resemble those of the preceding, but are more brightly and delicately tinted.
The various species of Rails, whether allied to the former or latter of those just mentioned, are far too numerous to be here noticed. Hardly any part of the world is without a representative of the genera Crex or Rallus, and every considerable country has one or
perhaps more of each—though it has been the habit of systematists to refer them to many other genera, the characters of which are with difficulty found. Thus in Europe alone three other species allied to Crex pratensis occur more or less abundantly ; but one of them, the Spotted Rail or Crake, has been made the type of a so-called genus Porzana, and the other two, little birds not much bigger than Larks, are considered to form a genus Zctpornia. The first of these, which used not to be uncommon in the eastern part of England, has a very near representative in the Carolina Rail or Sora, Crex Carolina, of North America, often there miscalled the Ortolan, just as its European analogue, C. porzana, is in England often termed the Dotterel. But, passing over these as well as some belonging to genera that can be much better defined, and other still more interesting forms of the Family, as Aphanapteryx (Birds, vol. iii. p. 733), Coot (vol. vi. p. 341), Moor-Hen (vol. xvi. p. 808), and Ocydrome (vol. xvii. p. 722), a few words must be said of the more distant group formed by the South-American Hcliornis, and the African and Indian Podica, comprising four or five species, to which the name ‘ ‘ Finfoots ” has been applied — from the lobes or flaps of skin that fringe their toes. Though for a long while placed among the Poclicipcdidie (Grebe, vol. xi. p. 79), their osteology no less than their habits appear to indicate their alliance with the Rails, if they be not members of the Family Ralliclae; but they seem to shew the extreme modification of that type in adaptation to aquatic life. Then again the curious genus Mesites of Madagascar, whose systematic place has been so long in doubt, has been referred by Prof. Alph. Milne-Edwards (rt?i?i. Sc. Naturclle, ser. 6, vii. art. 2) to the neighbourhood of the Rails, though offering some points of resemblance to the Herons. On the other hand the Jacanas (vol. xiii. p. 531) or Parridse, which from their long toes were once thought to belong to the Rails, are now generally admitted to be Limicoline, while the genus Aramus —the Courlan or Limpkin of the Southern United States—still occupies a very undetermined position. On the whole the Rallidae constitute a group of birds which, particularly as regards their relations to some other remarkable forms, of which the Sun-Bittern, Eurypyga, and Kagu, Rhinochetus, may especially be named, well deserve greater attention from the systematist, and any ornithologist in want of a subject could hardly find one more likely to reward his labours if he were only to carry them out in a judicious way. Based on the safe ground of anatomy, but due regard being also had to the external characters, habits, and other peculiarities of this multifarious group, a monograph might be produced of surpassing interest, and one that in its bearings on the doctrine of evolution would be likely to prove a telling record. (A. N.)
RAILWAYS had their origin in the tramways which were laid more than two hundred years ago in the mineral districts of England for the conveyance of coal to the sea. In those days, before Macadam, roads bearing heavy traffic were with difficulty kept in repair. This led to the plan of laying planks or timbers at the bottom of the ruts as a better contrivance than filling in with stones, and then to laying rails of timber on the level surface. In 1676 tramways consisted of rails of timber laid “from the colliery to the river, exactly straight and parallel, and bulky carts were made with four rollers fitting the rails, whereby the carriage was so easy that one horse would draw down four or five chaldron of coals.” The rails originally were formed of scantlings of good sound oak, and were connected by sills or cross timbers of the same material pinned together with oak trenails. By and by an additional or wearing rail, which could be easily renewed when worn, was placed above the supporting rail, and it was then possible to cover the cross pieces or sleepers with earth to protect them from the horses’ feet. These ways, laid by permission of local proprietors, were called “way-leaves.” It became a common practice to nail down bars of wrought iron on the surfaces of the ascending inclines of the road. These bars or rails were about 2 inches wide and half an inch thick, and were fastened to the wood rails by countersunk spikes. But the iron bars, not being stiff enough,
were considerably bent when the trucks were loaded, and the resistance was reduced but slightly below that of a well-constructed double wooden tramway.@@2 Nevertheless, while the regular load of coals for one horse on the common road was but 17 cwt., on the tramway the horse could regularly take a load of 42 cwt. Cast-iron was first tried incidentally as a material for
rails in 1767 by the Coal-
brookdale Iron Company.
The iron rails were cast in
lengths of 5 feet, 4 inches
wide, and 1^ inches thick,
formed with three holes,
through which they were
fastened to the oak rails.
The tramway was developed
into the railway by the em
ployment of cast-iron flange
rails (fig. 1) to replace the
wooden rails ; the continuous
flange or ledge on their inner
edge kept the wheels on the track. The roads were then called tram-roads, probably as an abbreviation of trammel-roads, the flanges of the rails being in reality trammels to gauge the road and confine the wheels to
@@@1 Formerly it seems to have been a popular belief in England that the Land-Rail in autumn transformed itself into a Water-Rail, resuming its own characters in spring. The writer has met with several persons who had serious doubts on the subject!
@@@2 The earliest system of way on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad and other railroads in the United States was a simple reproduction of this compound of wood and iron. As the ends of the bars became loose and turned upwards they were known as “suakes’ heads.” Occasionally they pierced the floors of the carriages and injured passengers.
the track. The leading objection to this system was that the rail was liable to be covered with dust. Jessop therefore in 1789 laid down at Loughborough cast-iron “ edge rails,” raised above the ground so as to allow a flanged cast-iron wheel to run on them (fig. 2). This appears to have been the first system of rails laid on cast-iron chairs and on sleepers.
The rails were pinned or bolted into the chairs. A wrought-iron rail was patented by Birkenshaw in 1820, as the “fish-belly” rail, similar in form and mode of support to Jessop’s rail, but rolled in continuous lengths, embracing a number of spans, with stiffening ledges or flanges on the
under side. This form of rail grew into favour. It weighed 33 lb per yard, and was laid in cast-iron chairs, spiked down to square stone blocks at 3-feet bearings (see fig. 3). The edge rail and the flanged wheel constitute the basis of the whole system of a railway. The rails forming a line of way were placed to a gauge or distance apart of 4 feet inches,
and two parallel lines of way were spaced with 6 feet between the inner rails of the ways. This interspace is popularly known as the “ six-foot.”
The benefits derived from the use of the tramway or railway for the transport of coal suggested to reflective persons the employment of it for the conveyance of general merchandise and of passengers. For the conveyance of heavy merchandise inland the canals little more than sixty years ago furnished the principal means. Though there were three such water-routes between Liverpool and Manchester, they were sometimes so crowded that cotton took a month to pass from the seaport to the manufacturing towns in the interior; yet the whole of the merchandise passing between Liverpool and Manchester did not average more than 1200 tons a day. The average rate of carriage was 18s. per ton, and the average time of transit on the 50 miles of canal was thirty-six hours. The conveyance of passengers by the improved coach-roads was comparatively rapid, but it was very costly. The first great movement to mend this state of things was the passing of the Act in 1821 for the construction of the Stockton and Darlington Railway. Colliery railways were in evidence to prove the benefits of railway communication by steam-power. The Hetton Railway, for instance, in the neighbourhood of Newcastle, from the colliery to the river Wear, was 7 miles long, and trains of 60 tons net weight were taken over the line at a speed of 44 miles per hour. On the Killingworth Railway an engine and tender weighing 10 tons drew a load of 40 tons at a speed of 6 miles per hour, consuming 50 fl> of coal per mile run. Whilst animal-power only was at first relied on for working the Stockton and Darlington
Railway, the Act provided for working with men and horses or “ otherwise.” By another Act applied for at the request of George Stephenson, who became engineer to the line, the company was empowered to work the railway with locomotive engines. The line, with three branches, was over 38 miles in length, and was at first laid as a single line, with passing places at intervals of a quarter of a mile, the way being constructed with wrought-iron fish belly rails, weighing 28 ft> per yard. It was opened in September 1825 by a train of thirty-four vehicles, making a gross load of about 90 tons, drawn by one engine driven by Stephenson, with a signalman on horseback in advance. The train moved off at the rate of from 10 to 12 miles an hour, and attained a speed of 15 miles per hour on favourable parts of the line. A train weighing 92 tons could be drawn by one engine at the rate of 5 miles per hour. The principal business of the new railway was the conveyance of minerals and goods, but from the first passengers insisted upon being carried, and in October 1825 the company began to run a daily coach, called the “ Experiment,” to carry six inside, and from fifteen to twenty outside, making the journey from Darlington to Stockton and back in two hours. The fare was Is., and each passenger was allowed to take baggage not exceeding 14 Bb weight. The rate for carriage of merchandise was reduced from 5d. to one-fifth of a penny per ton per mile, and that of minerals from 7d. to Hd. per ton per mile. The price of coals at Darlington fell from 18s. to 8s. 6d. per ton.
The Monklands Railway in Scotland, opened in 1826, was the first to follow the example of the Stockton and Darlington line, and several other small lines—including the Canterbury and Whitstable, worked partly by fixed engines and partly by locomotives—quickly adopted steam-traction. But the inauguration of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, opened in 1829, made the first great impression on the national mind that a revolution in the modes of travelling had really taken place. In 1838 a line was opened between London and Birmingham, and the first train accomplished the whole distance—112^ miles—at an average speed of over 20 miles per hour. The London and Greenwich, the London and Southampton, the Great Western, Birmingham and Derby, Bristol and Exeter, Eastern Counties, Manchester and Leeds, Grand Junction, Midland Counties, North Midland, South-Eastern, London and Brighton, Manchester and Birmingham, and Edinburgh and Glasgow, together with many small Bills, were all passed within four years from the time of the passing of the London and Birmingham Bill. Thus in the course of four or five years the foundations were laid of most of the existing trunk lines of railway in Great Britain. The original Liverpool and Manchester line, 3(4 miles in length, now forms part of a network of lines, the property of one company, nearly 1800 miles in extent, representing a capital invested in railway works and plant of <£100,000,000.
Meantime the construction of the way was the subject of much consideration. The fish-belly form of wrought-iron rail was troublesome to roll, and so the flat-bottom or flat-foot rail (fig. 4) was designed, combining a solid head with a flange base. This rail, with holes through the · flange to hold the spikes, was used to some extent, and was laid on longitudinal timber sleepers, and also on transverse sleepers. The disadvantage was want of vertical stiffness of the system; and, if the rail was made higher, it was liable to rock on the sleeper and work loose on the spikes. This rail, known as the Yignoles rail, has been much improved in form and proportions and is extensively used. The bridge rail (fig. 5)—so called
because it was first laid on bridges—was that first used on the Great Western Railway, and is of a shallow section, but wide, and possessed of lateral stiffness. The first line was a series of beech piles, 12 inches square, driven into the ground, to which were bolted at the surface level cross balks of timber, one on each side of the pilehead on which they were shouldered. Longitudinal balks, 15 feet long, were laid on the cross balks. The longitudinals were covered with oak or elm planking screwed down to the surface. When the ballast was packed under the longitudinal balks, the surface of the oak planks was planed level, and the bridge rails screwed down on them, with felt between. It was supposed that there would be no yielding whatever, but a very short time demonstrated that the piles formed a series of solid resistances, while the balks between sprang, and it was found necessary to cut away the piles. Transoms were then framed into the longitudinals and secured by strap-bolts, and the whole resembled a long ladder laid on the ground. Eight different sections of rails were tried in succession; one section measured l¿ inches in height by 7 inches in width, weighing 41 lb per yard; and the last section 2f inches high by 6 inches wide, weighing 62 K) per yard. The screws which held down the rails were counter-sunk beneath the wheel-flanges, and nut-headed on the other side (see fig. 6). In consequence of the want of depth in the rails, they bent longitudinally under the wheels, and the horizontal flanges curled up at the sides, while the holes through them bent into angles. One remedy tried was to cross-board the longitudinal timbers on the surface, and thus the fibre was made less yielding.
The double-headed rail (fig. 7) was originated by Joseph Locke, and was first laid on the Grand Junction Railway. It also weighed 62 lb per yard. The two tables were equal; the rail was more easily rolled than others, and, being reversible, it was in fact two rails in one. But as it was laid in cast-iron chairs the lower table was exposed to damage under the hammering of the traffic; and many engineers were led to make the lower table of smaller size, as in fig. 8, merely as a support, not as a surface to be used by the wheels. This rail, which acquired the title of “ bull-headed,” was, like the flat-foot and bridge rails, used as a prop supported on its base. There was a waste of metal in these early rails, both flat-foot and double-headed, owing to the excessive thickness of the vertical web, which has been corrected in recent designs.
It was found, naturally, that rails would not rest in their chairs at the joints, but were loosened and bruised at the ends by the blows of the traffic. The fish-joint was therefore devised in 1847 by Mr W.
Bridges Adams, the intention being by “fishing” the joints to convert the rails into continuous beams. In the original design two chairs were placed, one under each rail, a few inches apart, as in fig. 9. The joint was thus suspended between the two chairs, and two keys of iron, called “ fishes,” fitting the side channels of the rails, were driven in on each side between the chairs and the rails. In subsequent modifications the fishes were, and they continue to be, bolted to and through the rails, the sleepers being placed further apart, and the joint suspended between them.
In the employment of steam-power for traction on railways rapid progress was made in response to the demand
for power. The year 1829 is famous in the annals of railways not only for the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester line but for the invention and construction of the first high-speed locomotive of the standard modern type. Robert Stephenson’s engine, the “Rocket,” was made under competition for the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, and it gained the prize for lightness, power, and speed awarded by the directors. The two steam-cylinders of the “Rocket” w־ere 8 inches in diameter, with 164 inches of stroke, and the driving-wheels were 4 feet 8| inches in diameter. The engine weighed 4 tons 5 cwt., the tender following it 3 tons 4 cwt., and two loaded carriages drawn by it on the trial 9 tons 11 cwt. : thus the weight drawn was 12 tons 15 cwt., and the gross total 17 tons. The pressure of steam in the boiler was 50 ft> per square inch. An average speed of 14 miles per hour was attained, the greatest velocity being 29 miles per hour ; and the boiler evaporated 18^ cubic feet, or 114 gallons, of water per hour. The “ Rocket ” possessed the three elements of efficiency of the modern locomotive,—the internal water-surrounded fire-box and the multitubular flue in the boiler, or a number of small tubes in place of one large tube; the blast-pipe, by which the waste steam of the engine was exhausted up the chimney; and the direct connexion of the two steam-cylinders, one on each side of the engine, with the driving or propelling wheels, on one axle. The subdivision of the single large flue, up to that time in general use in locomotives, into a number of small tubes greatly accelerated the generation of steam without adding to the size or weight of the boiler. But the evaporating tubes would have been of little avail practically had they not been supplemented by the blast-pipe, which, by ejecting the steam from the engine after it had done its work in the cylinder straight up the chimney, excited a strong draught through the boiler and caused a brisk and rapid combustion of fuel and generation of heat. The heat was absorbed with proportional rapidity through the newly applied heating-tubes. The blast-pipe, thus applied, in conjunction with the multitubular flue, vastly improved the capacity and usefulness of the locomotive. And, taking into account the direct connexion of the steam-cylinder with one axle and pair of wheels, the improvements were tantamount to a new and original machine. The “ Rocket ” subsequently drew an average gross load of 40 tons behind the tender at a speed of 133־ miles per hour. The old Killingworth engine, one of the earlier type of locomotives constructed by George Stephenson, weighing with its tender 10 tons, could only work at a maximum of 6 miles per hour with 50 tons.
For many years engines belonged to two general classes. In one class there were six ■wheels, of which one pair was placed behind the boiler, typified in the engines of the day made by Robert Stephenson ; in the other class there were but four wheels, placed under the barrel of the boiler, leaving the fire-box overhung, typified in the engines made by Bury for the London and Birmingham Railway. Experience demonstrated the disadvantage of an overhanging mass, with a very limited ■wheel-base, in the four-wheeled engine running at high speed; and now it is the general
practice to apply six wheels at least to all ordinary locomotive stock. The earliest four-wheeled locomotive constructed by Robert Stephenson and Co. as an article of regular manufacture weighed 9 tons in working order. The six-wheeled engines which followed weighed 11J tons. In the course of business locomotives of greater power and greater weight were constructed ; and there are locomotives of the present time which weigh 47∣ tons in working order, and with the tender full of water and coal about 80 tons gross. There are other engines of special design with twelve wheels which weigh in working order, with fuel and water, 72 tons. The contrast is emphasized in the history of the old Garnkirk and Glasgow Railway, which was opened about the year 1829. The first engines of that line weighed from 8 to 9 tons. They had steam-cylinders 11 inches in diameter, and 4-feet wheels of cast-iron, with a working pressure in the boiler of 50 lb per square inch. The “ Garnkirk ” engine used to take a train of three carriages, together weighing 7 tons gross, at the average speed of 16 miles per hour between Glasgow and Gartsherrie. When the old line, 8 miles in length, was merged in the Caledonian Railway, now comprising a system of nearly 1000 miles in length, the power of the engines was greatly increased, and at this day (1885) there are express passenger engines working over the same ground having large cylinders of 17 or 18 inches in diameter, and wheels of 7 and 8 feet in diameter, weighing from 35 to 45 tons. These engines, with steam of 120 lb pressure per square inch, take a gross load of 90 tons at a speed of from 40 to 50 miles per hour.
Statistics.
Length of Railways in the United Kingdom.—The length of railways open for traffic at the end of the year 1854, twenty-live years after the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, was 8053 miles (of which nearly one-fourth was single line of way), costing about £35,500 per mile. In 1874 that mileage was doubled (16,449 miles, nearly one-half being only single line), costing about £37,000 per mile. According to the latest published return the length of railways open for traffic at the end of 1883 amounted to 18,681 miles, and the proportion of single line had decreased, being under 46 per cent. Whilst the mileage open was increased at the rate of 420 miles a year during the earlier period (1854-74), it was only increased by 248 miles a year during the later period (1874-83). But many miles of way in multiple have been laid for the working of traffic concentrated on main lines,—127 miles of triple line and 285 of quadruple. The largest share of multiple way belongs to the London and North-Western Railway Company, which owns 28 miles of triple way and no less than 114 of quadruple. The principal section of this railway, 80 miles in length, between London and Rugby, is entirely in quadruple,—two lines for goods and two for passenger traffic. Table I. shows the distribution of the 18,681 miles of railway open at the end of 1883 :—
The railways here represented were owned by 281 companies (206 in England and Wales, 31 in Scotland, and 44 in Ireland). But the whole property is worked by 123 companies.@@1
The longest mileage of railway worked by one company is that of the Great Western Railway, which at the end of 1883 was 2268 miles. Next to this ranks the London and North-Western (1793), then the North-Eastern (1534), the Midland (1381), the North-British (1006), and the Caledonian (877). The three longest mileages in Ireland owned each by one company are those of the Great Northern (503), the Great Southern and Western (478), and the Midland Great Western (425). The four largest English companies, taken together, work nearly 7000 miles of railway,—more than half of the whole length of railways in England and Wales. The two leading lines in Scotland, taken together, work nearly 1900, or two-thirds of the whole length of railways in Scotland. In
@@@1 It would appear that less progress has been made in Ireland than in Great Britain in amalgamation and concentration of management.
Ireland the three leading lines, taken together, work 1400,—more than half of the whole length of railways in Ireland.
Capital Invested, Expenditure per Mile, &c.—The capital raised' for the construction of railways at the end of the year 1883 : amounted to about £785,000,000, representing an expenditure of £42,000 per mile open. Some small portion of this cost belongs to lines in course of construction. The money has been raised in the following proportions :—
Ordinary share capital paid up ... .£293,437,106    or    37- 4 per cent.
Guaranteed stock ................ 94,672,823    „    12'1    ,,
Preferential stock................ 200,8S8,198    ,,    25- 6    ,,
Loans .......................... 15,323,505    ,,    Γ9    „
Debenture stock ................ 180,599,680    „    23- 0    ,,
Total (say £785,000,000)....    £784,921,312    „    100Ό
In 1857 the ordinary stock was 57 per cent., as against 37‘4 per cent, in 1883 ; and the guaranteed and preferential stock together were but one-third of the ordinary share capital, while in 1883 they equalled it. The English railway system, so far as capital is concerned, has become adjusted to the rule of having rather less than 40 per cent, of the capital in “open stock.” In 1845-46 the dividends of railways appear to have reached a maximum. The precipitate influx of new lines during the four years from 1846 to 1850, contests before parliament, competition in various forms, and other causes then came in to depress dividends, and reduced the average proportion of net receipts in 1849 to 2, 83 per cent, of the total capital and loans raised at that time. In 1857 the percentage of net receipts had risen again to 4- 06 per cent, of the total capital and loans ; and notwithstanding the accumulation of preference capital and loans, both taking precedence of ordinary capital, the available dividend on the latter increased from 1 ∙ 88 per cent, to 3'6 per cent. Since that time the average dividend paid on ordinary capital has maintained its level at least, and it amounted for 1883 to 4'68 per cent. The average cost per mile open at the end of 1883, calculated on the amount of capital raised, with that for 1857 added for comparison, was as follows (Table II.) :—
The marked increase in capital expenditure per mile is due to permanent improvements, station accommodation, reconstruction, and multiplication of lines. Of the great cost of English railways, independently of the permanent improvements already noticed, part lias been incurred in parliamentary warfare, while much of it is due to great and costly termini, and to the character of the earlier works of construction in England, where great expenditure was incurred for the sake of securing long levels and very easy gradients, until Joseph Locke made a new departure, and constructed the Grand Junction Railway on economic principles by following in great part the contour of the surface. For this line and the London and Birmingham line, for which Robert Stephenson was the engineer, Acts were passed in the same year (1833). The latter line was expensively laid out with tunnels, viaducts, and heavy cuttings and embankments, and cost in round numbers £53,600 per mile, as against £23,200 per mile for Locke’s line. The cheaper line abounded in inclines of from 1 in 85 to 1 in 265, whilst the more expensive line was ruled by gradients not steeper than 1 in 330. Locke reckoned upon the sufficiency of the engine-power to take the trains up the inclines, and the famous Crewe engine was the outgrowth of the situation. The London and South-Western Railway, which cost £26,800 per mile, was laid out by Locke to a ruling gradient of 1 in 250. There are other instances of economical construction by the same engineer in the original Caledonian and Scottish Central Railways—now amalgamated—the former of which was made with long gradients of 1 in 75, 1 in 80, 1 in 100, and other steep slopes. Besides these there are other cheaply made railways in Scotland ; but there is only one Scottish railway of the monumental class,—the Edinburgh and Glasgow, nearly dead level, with enormously expensive works. On the Metropolitan Railway system, 22 miles in length, upwards of £11,000,000 have been paid up, or about £500,000 per mile. The enormous cost of this line, as well as of the Metropolitan District system (18 miles long, costing £374,000 per mile) and the North London system (12 miles long, costing £325,000 per mile), is sufficiently explained by the place and conditions. The original London and Blackwall Railway, built, like the North London, for the most part on arches, cost £311,912 per mile. The original Birkenhead, Cheshire, and Lancashire Junction Railway, now vested in the neighbouring railway companies, cost upwards of £75,000 per mile, owing partly to the protracted contests in which it had been involved with the neighbouring railways, and partly to the costly works of construction joining the railway to the docks at Birkenhead. Of railways in England, the original Carlisle and Silloth
Railway, 13 miles long, has the honour of standing at the foot of the list, having cost £6474 per mile. Of the Scottish lines the Caledonian system stands at the head of the list, costing £45,500 per mile. The North British system cost £33,000 per mile. At the foot of the list stood the original East of Fife line, 7 miles long, with a cost of £4351 per mile. But the cheapest lines of considerable length are the Forth and Clyde line, costing £5525 per mile, and the Peebles line, costing £5545 per mile. Both these lines have been taken into the North British system. In Ireland the Dublin and Kingstown Railway, 8 miles long, a suburban railway, cost £53,000 per mile. The original Limerick and Foynes line, costing £5282 per mile, is probably the cheapest piece of railway in the United Kingdom.
The proportions of expenditure on capital account cannot in the absence of data be exactly determined. The following may be accepted as an approximate analysis of the average cost of the railways, as it stood in 1871 :—
Per Per mile. cent.
Law and parliamentary expenses .................... £2,000 or 51
Land and compensation.............................. 7,000 „ 191
Works of construction and stations complete .......... 18,000 ,, 50'
Locomotive and carrying stock ...................... 3,000 „    8
Interest on stock, discounts, bonuses, dividends from
capital, contingencies, &c......................... 6,000 ,, 17
36,000    100
From this estimate it would appear that the net cost of construction and equipment was £21,000 per mile, or about 58 per cent, of the entire cost. The capital cost of the working stock is given by the London and North-Western Railway Company. Excluding a considerable number of engines and carrying stock which had been constructed as duplicate stock—charged to revenue, no doubt —at 31st December 1884 the quantities and costs were as follows :—
1⅛47 tenders ........................{-£3,5,4,284 (£1538 per engine).
3,463 passenger carriages..............ί . 49 . zp ,θ8 vehif ,lp ∖
2,116 horse-boxes, guards’ vans, &c.....J 1,4Jb,2i2 (L-bä peι vehicle}.
51,817 waggon stock .................. 3,320,322 (£64    „    ).
Total..................£8,390,S18
It is to be explained with reference to these low rates of cost that the original cost of the early working stock stands unaltered in the books of the company, whilst the whole of the original working stock has been replaced at the charge of revenue by engines and vehicles of modern design and larger capacity. Divided by the number of miles (1793) open at 31st December 1884, the total charge for working stock is at the rate of £4680 per mile open. For new working stock manufactured by the same company during the eighteen months ending 31st December 1884 the following average sums were charged to capital :—
31 locomotives with tenders or tank-engines..............£1100 each.
229 vehicles, carriage stock .............................. 385 „
2192 vehicles, waggon stock .............................. 59 „
Working or Rolling Stock. — The working or rolling stock of railways consists of locomotives with their tenders, passenger carriages, horse-boxes, carriage trucks, travelling post-offices with their tenders and vans, goods waggons, covered goods waggons, cattle trucks, coke and coal waggons, timber trucks, ballast waggons, and goods brake vans. Table III. (below) shows that in England and Wales there is nearly one locomotive per mile of line open, or for the United Kingdom three engines for every 4 miles. The greatest waggon stock per mile open is to be found in Scotland—nearly thirty-one per mile. The proportions of vehicles for traffic of all classes for each locomotive averaged at the end of the year 1883 :—
England and Wales..................31 ∙1 vehicles per engine.
Scotland............................51- 7    ,,    ,,
Ireland ............................24∙6    ,,    ,,
Total ..................33∙9    „    „
The excessive proportion of fifty-two vehicles per engine in Scotland corresponds to the comparatively excessive number of train miles with goods and minerals, which are 20 per cent, more than the passenger-train miles, whilst in England they are 8 per cent, less, and in Ireland more than 50 per cent. less. The various
proportions of rolling stock for twenty-one leading British railways (31st December 1883) are exhibited in detail in Table IV., arranged in the order of the numerical proportions which the carrying stock for traffic bears to the locomotive stock :—
Here the number of vehicles varies from 5 per engine on the Metropolitan Railway, 7 on the District Raihvay, and 11 "7 on the North London Railway—all of these specially passenger lines of dense traffic—to 54 per engine on the North-Eastern Railway, 59 on the North British Railway, and 65 on the Caledonian Railway—all these being specially lines of mineral traffic.
Train AIilcs Run, 1883.—The number of miles run by passenger and goods and mineral trains, and the number run by mixed trains, are as follows (Table V.) :—
The mixed-train miles constitute just 1 per cent, of the total number, and the mileages run by passenger and goods trains are nearly equal. On an average each mile of way was traversed forty times a day. Taking the means of the numbers of engines for the end of 1882 and the end of 1883 as the average number during the year, the train miles run per locomotive are as follows (Table VI. ) :—
An engine when actually on duty may accomplish 120 train miles
per day, which would make upwards of 40,000 per annum. But at any moment half the engines may be taken as in reserve or under repair, which reduces the average performance per engine of the whole stock to some 20,000 miles per year, and the circumstances of many lines do not admit of such high averages of mileage run. Taking the twenty-one leading lines in detail, following the selection already made to show the quantities of working stock, the number of train, miles run on the different lines in 1883 is shown in Table VII. as follows :—
Table VIII.—Duties performed by Engines of Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway.
In general the lines of preponderating passenger-train miles run the greater number of miles per engine. The small mileage per engine of the London and North-Western line, with a relatively
small goods-train mileage, is partly explained by the fact that this company had 141 duplicate locomotives in 1883. Engines run many miles unavoidably “empty,”—that is, without a train, the proportion of the empty or unprofitable mileage depending on the traffic and the nature of the line. A line with locally heavy gradients must have “assistant” or “pilot” engines in readiness to assist the trains up the inclines, and such engines usually have to return empty to the depot ; and in cases of special trains empty engines are run to or from the train, as the case may happen. Engines, especially assistant engines, may have to stand “in steam ” or with the steam up and the fire in good order, in readiness to act when required. Some railway companies register the whole time the engines are in steam, also the assistant, ballasting, and empty mileage run, besides the time on active duty and the train miles run. The nature of the duty of goods engines, which is various, is also distinguished, so as, in short, to make a complete record of the work done. Thus for the Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway Table VIII. (see above) gives the duties performed by the engines during the second half-years of 18S7 and 1883. The times of engines assisting and running empty are included in the hours in steam with trains,—passenger and goods respectively. There were about 170 engines employed in shunting and marshalling trains. The relative percentages of the hours the engines were in steam and of miles run on different duties in the second half-year of 1883 are given in Table IX. :—
The proportion of extra engine mileage to the work done in hauling goods, minerals, and passengers varies very much on different systems, according to the nature of the traffic, for by far the greater part of it arises in connexion with goods and minerals, which itself is a very varying quantity. The train mile, therefore, —that is, the revenue-producing train mile—though it is the simplest and handiest unit of performance, is not an absolute measure of work done. The shunting or marshalling of trains is an item not indicated by train mileage, and yet it is hard work and occupies as many hours in steam as the train mileage. Again, the fuel consumed, reckoned only on the train mileage run, amounts to 53 lb per mile run ; but, reckoned on the total mileage run by engines, in which the extra mileage, whether ballasting, shunting, or assisting, is hard work, it amounts only to 41 lb per mile run.
On the London and North-Western Railway in 1874 the total shunting time was 613,472 hours of one engine—about the same as on the Sheffield line in 1883—and on this work 171 engines were constantly employed, marshalling and classifying the trains in the sidings. A like number, so employed on the Sheffield line, amount to one-third of the total locomotive stock.
Traffic.—Before the establishment of the railway from twenty to thirty coaches'ran daily between Manchester and Liverpool, whereas the railway carried 700,000 passengers during its first eighteen months. Wherever railways were made the carriage of passengers was found to be one of the most remunerative sources of traffic. Nearly fifty years ago Porter, in his Progress of the Nation (1836), estimated that in Great Britain 82,000 persons daily, or 30,000,000 per annum, travelled by coach an average distance of about 12 miles each, at an average cost of 5s. for each passenger, or 5d. per mile, whereas in 1881 upwards of 600,000,000 passengers travelled by railway at a cost, taking averages, of 10⅜d. each, which at the average rate of say 1⅛d. per mile travelled would represent an average length of 8⅜ miles, at one-fourth of the cost and in one-third of the time required by coach.
Table X. shows the total number of passengers of each class conveyed in 1883 :—
The proportions of passengers, independent of season-ticket holders, were as follows (Table XI.) :—
@@@1 Season-ticket holders in addition :—England and Wales, 570,686 ; Scotland, 37,924 ; Ireland, 23,440 ; total, 632,050.
The number of passengers conveyed in the year 1883 per mile of the mean length of railway open during the year was, in England 46,340, in Scotland 17,550, and in Ireland 7710.
The receipts from passenger traffic in 1883 are given in Table XII. (see below). The decided preponderance of third-class traffic shown in this table is the outcome of the work of years. In 1854 upwards of 111 million passengers travelled by railway, of whom 13 per cent, travelled by first, 34 by second, and 53 by third class and parliamentary carriages. In 1873, the year before the Midland Railway Company ceased to carry second-class passengers, upwards of 455 million passengers travelled by railway, of whom only 8½ per cent, travelled by first, 15 by second, and 76½ by third class carriages. In 1881 upwards of 623 million passengers travelled by railway, nearly six times as many as in 1854. Of these only 6 per cent, were first and 10½ second class passengers, whilst the third-class and parliamentary passengers rose to 83½. Finally, in 1883 (as already stated in Table XI. ), 85 per cent, of the passengers were third class. The same movement is exemplified in the receipts, the mass of receipts gravitating towards third class, as shown by the following abstract per mile open for the years already mentioned (Table XIII.)
These figures show that in 1854 first and second class receipts together made up two-thirds of the whole receipts from passengers, but that they steadily declined in succeeding years, not only proportionally but absolutely,—the third-class receipts, on the contrary, exhibiting a rapid increase, insomuch that, whereas in 1854 they were exactly one-third of the whole receipts, in 1883 they amounted to more than two-thirds of the whole receipts from passengers. The reaction in first-class receipts is all the more remarkable because the number of first-class passengers in 1854—14½ millions—was nearly trebled in 1873 ; that of 1873 was almost exactly the same as in 1881,—about 38 millions ; -whilst in 1883 there were nearly 36½ millions. The explanation is probably to be sought partly in the fact that first-class fares have been reduced in many cases and express fares have been almost entirely abolished, and partly to the increased habit of taking third class for long journeys, so that first-class journeys, being shorter on the average, have become less remunerative to the companies than before. The third class is by far the most remunerative portion of the passenger traffic of railways ; and it is difficult to understand the policy still pursued by railway companies in France, of discouraging third-class traffic. On those railways where fast trains do not take third-class passengers, or third-class carriages are deterrently uncomfortable and repulsive, only those travel who travel by necessity, or to whom money is no object. On the contrary, low fares and comfortable carriages invite traffic ; they may almost be said to create it,—a fact which has long been recognized by the more intelligent of railway managers. The high speed of express trains —from 45 to 50 miles and upwards per hour—is, of course, an additional inducement to travel. On certain lines there are only two classes of carriages,—first and third. The Caledonian Railway Company was the first to adopt, about thirty-five years ago, the system of two classes only for local main-line passenger traffic. The Great North of Scotland Railway Company opened its line in 1854 with only first and third class carriages. The Midland Railway Company, as already noticed, ceased in 1874 to run second-
class carriages, at the same time readjusting and lowering the fares, —the revised rates being 1½d. and 1d. respectively per mile for first and third class. The result was that in 1875 27∣ million passengers travelled on this railway,—nearly 5 millions more than in 1873, before the change was made ; whilst in 1881 there were 29 million travellers, of whom -27 millions were third and only 2 millions first class passengers; and in 1883 upwards of 31 million passengers were carried, of whom 29½ millions were of the third and a little over 1¾ millions of the first class. The gross receipts for passenger traffic on the Midland Railway were, in round numbers, £1,660,000 in 1873, £1,787,000 in 1881, and £1,904,000 in 1883, whilst the percentage of working expenditure remained the same. On the whole, it appears from the results of this grand experiment that the change has succeeded financially, whilst there is no doubt that it has stimulated the provision for and development of third-class travelling on other railways. The gravitation of traffic to the lowest level is unquestionable ; and it is aided by the fact that third-class carriages have been (1885) for some years run with nearly all trains, fast as well as slow, and that the largeness of the number of third-class passengers has forced upon the management of the companies improvements in the popular class of carriage. As the downward movement of the classes continues the outcome will most likely be a general reduction of the number of classes to two,—nominally first and third, practically first and second. On 1st May 1885 second-class carriages were abolished on the branch lines of the Great Northern Railway ; and, if the experiment answers expectations, second-class carriages will be abolished on the entire Great Northern system.
The returns to the Board of Trade do not supply material forclose analysis of goods traffic. The quantities of minerals and goods or general merchandise conveyed in 1883 were as follows (Table XIV.)
The receipts from mineral and goods traffic in 1883 are given in Table XV.
These statistics of merchandise and mineral traffic show that upwards of 266 million tons were conveyed in 1883 in the United Kingdom, seven-tenths of which were minerals. In 1857 71 million tons were conveyed, of which only two-thirds consisted of minerals ; whence it appears that a more rapid development of mineral traffic than of general merchandise took place in the interval.
The whole of the receipts directly earned on the railways in 1883, with the miscellaneous receipts derived from rents, tolls, navigation, steamboats, &c., are brought together in Table XVI. (see below). The receipts per train mile from passengers and from goods and mineral traffic are reckoned exclusive of the receipts on railways working mixed trains ; but all the receipts per train mile for passengers and goods together are divided by the total mileage run by all trains. In the last column the gross receipts, including miscellaneous receipts, are divided by the total train mileage.
@@@1 Including £24,965 from goods-traffic receipts not classified.
Of the total receipts for passengers and goods, goods brought 56∙8 per cent, and passengers 43∙2. In 1857 the proportions were nearly the same,—56 and 44 per cent, respectively. For the three kingdoms separately the percentages for 1883 were (Table Xλr II. ) :—
The average traffic receipts per mile open in 1883 were distributed between the three kingdoms as shown in Table XVIII. :—
These quantities for 1883 are proportionally for the three kingdoms as 4, 2¼, 1. For the year 1857 the corresponding amounts were as 3, 2, 1, so that the growth of traffic in the interval has been greater in England than in Scotland, and greater in Scotland than in Ireland.
Table XIX. (below) contains a summary of the expenditure of the railways of the United Kingdom for the year 1883, with the rate of expenditure of different kinds per mile open and per train mile run, and, in addition, the proportional expenditure of the different kinds in parts of the total working expenditure. The heads of expenditure are classified in this table in order to separate direct or really working expenditure from what may be called contingent or incidental expenditure not essential to the working of a railway, as rates, duty, compensation, &c. The direct or essential working expenditure is thus upwards of 32 millions sterling, or 86 per cent, of the whole expenditure. The amount and proportion of the net receipts are shown by deducting the total working expenditure from the total receipts, as under :—
Per train mile.
Total receipts................£71,062,270,    or    5s.    3'4d.    or    100    per cent
Gross working expenditure.... 37,369,562 „ 2s. 9⅛d. „ 52 6    „
Net receipts ..........£33,692,708    „    2s.    6d.    „    47    4    „
The net receipts available for payment of dividend are equal to 4- 29 per cent, on the paid-up capital, and they were disposed for 1883 in the following fashion :—
On ordinary capital ............£13,725,933, equivalent to 4∙68 per cent.
On guaranteed and preferential
capital ...................... 12,601,797    „    „    4∙26    „
On bonus and debenture stock    .. 8,254,643    ,,    ,,    4- 21    „
Total payments ..........£34,582,373    „    ,,    4- 41    „
Net available receipts    ....£33,692,708    „    ,,    4∙29    „
The total distribution, it appears, exceeded the available net receipts for the year by nearly £1,000,000. In explanation of the
apparent discrepancy it may be stated that some companies had invested a portion of their capital in the stocks and shares of other companies ; that interest is occasionally paid on the capital of companies whose lines are not open for traffic ; and that interest on loan capital is not always paid out of net earnings. The appropriation of the gross receipts to working expenditure and dividends, according to the tabulated statement of expenditure, is summarily as follows, in parts of the gross receipts :—
Per cent.
Maintenance of way, works, &c.....»......... 9- 5
Locomotive power............................13, 1
Maintenance of carriages and waggons ........ 4∙6
Traffic expenses ..............................15- 8
General charges.............................. 2- 3
Direct expenditure on working............45'3
Contingent expenditure on working ...... 7‘3
Total working expenditure................ 52    ∙6
Payments of interest and dividends........ 47    ∙4
Gross receipts............................ 100
The statistics of traffic returns of railways in the United Kingdom since 1842 indicate a remarkably steady and rapid increase of traffic. L In 1842 the total receipts amounted to upwards of £4,250,000. In . 1852 they were nearly £16,000,000, and during the thirty-one years
following thev are given at intervals as in Table XX. :—
Thus the receipts were quadrupled during the thirty years from 1853 to 1883, whilst the mileage of railway open was increased by two and a half times. The receipts per mile increased notwithstanding their continual dilution by the accession of new lines. These results, taken together, indicate the inherent elasticity of the railway and its seemingly inexhaustible resources.
Of the main trunk-lines, which constitute the foundation of the railway system, those which converge towards and terminate in London—the metropolitan lines—are more important than the provincial lines. London is the great heart of the country and is the chief centre of commerce ; moreover, the metropolitan railways, taken together, possess a greater variety of traffic than others ; hence they are selected for discussion illustrative of the growing magnitude and distribution of traffic. On the nine metropolitan railways, including the London and Black wall and the North London, in operation in 1854-57, Table XXI. shows the receipts for these four years ; and the receipts for the year 1883 derived from the twelve metropolitan companies then in operation are added for comparison :—
In the early years—1856, for instance—the metropolitan railway mileage open constituted one-third of the total mileage open, whilst it produced nearly one-half of the total traffic receipts of the United Kingdom, insomuch that the receipts per metropolitan mile were two-fifths more than the average total receipts per mile. Recently—in 1883—though the metropolitan mileage open was less than one-half of the total mileage open of the United Kingdom, it earned six-tenths of the total receipts ; and the receipts per metropolitan mile were one-third more than the average total on the whole mileage of the country. Lastly, the increase of receipts of the metropolitan lines is greater than that of the entire system. Whether, therefore, the increase of receipts be compared with the total receipts or with the mileage open, the traffic of the metropolitan railways increases the most rapidly, and it is also of the greatest absolute magnitude. But, to bring out clearly the relative importance and progress of the traffic of different districts, let us separate what may be distinguished as the coast lines to the south and east of the metropolis—the Great Eastern, and the railways south of the Thames—from the interior lines to the north and west,
the Great Northern, Midland, North-Western, Great Western, and the three local lines, the North London, Metropolitan, and District. The receipts may be correspondingly classified and compared with the receipts in other parts of the United Kingdom (Table XXII.):—
This comparative statement shows some strong contrasts. In 1857 the densest traffic in England, averaging £86,10s., over 1515 miles lay to the north and west of the metropolis ; the railway traffic of the country was very partially distributed ; and, taking London as the great focus, the traffic radiated and converged in all directions, with decreasing intensity as the distance from the centre increased. In the year 1883, on the contrary, whilst the metropolitan traffic continued to be the densest, the traffic of the metropolitan coast lines per mile open had advanced so rapidly as even to surpass that of the interior metropolitan lines,—the receipts being £98 per mile per week against £96. The rapid development of the southern lines passenger traffic is, as will be shown, the cause of the great advance in receipts. Further insight into the comparative conditions of interior and coast lines may be got by taking four great inland lines (Great Northern, Great Western, Midland, and London and North-Western), which are lines of preponderating goods and mineral traffic, and contrasting them with four great coast lines of preponderating passenger traffic (South-Eastern ; London, Brighton, and South Coast ; London, Chatham, and Dover ; and South-Western). In the annexed table (XXIII.) for 1883 the average fare per passenger is calculated on the assumption that the fares formed 80 per cent, of the whole receipts for passenger trains, and the average length of a passenger’s journey is got by taking 85 per cent, of the passengers as third class at Id. a mile and 15 per cent, as first and second class at 1∣d. a mile.
The coast lines, being freer from competition, get higher rates both for goods and passengers ; but the inland lines have the advantage in direct working expenditure per train mile, and a still greater advantage in the much smaller capital raised per mile of line open, so that, in spite of competition and low rates, they earn 5∣ per cent, on their capital as against a little over 4⅛ earned by the coast lines. The greater capital outlay on the coast railways seems to be due to the costliness of stations and carriage stock for a preponderating passenger traffic ; and as this more than outweighs the gains from higher rates the statistics support the generally accepted opinion that goods and mineral traffic on railways is profitable and should be encouraged and developed. Mr R. Price Williams, an accepted authority on railway statistics, supports this conclusion. Mr F. R. Conder, on the contrary, who has deeply studied the question, maintains that the heavy mineral traffic of railways should be relegated to the canals, which, though slow, are low in their charges.
Emploijés.—In 1856 Robert Stephenson estimated that 1 per cent, of the population of the United Kingdom was maintained
by the railways then in operation, independently of the considerable amount of labour employed on railways in course of construction. On 31st March 1884 railway employés numbered in all 367,793 persons, or 19, 69 per mile open, showing an increase of more than 50 per cent, on the proportion per mile in 1857, which was only 12, 63. Table XXIV. gives details :—
From this table it may be estimated that there are now two drivers and two firemen for every 3 miles of line open. In 1857 there were only two drivers and two firemen for every 5 miles ; and, though the train service has increased faster than the train mileage, the work of the drivers has sensibly diminished, each man on an average doing 20,950 miles as against 23,420 in 1857.
Railway Construction.
The selection of lines of railway is mainly governed by the same principles as hold good for roads, but the cost of the rails renders it of greater importance to shorten the length of the route than to make slight savings in embankments and cuttings. The first step in the survey is to ascertain the positions of the watercourse and watershed lines of the district to be passed through. The general direction having been selected by the help of an ordnance map, a sketch-map, or a special reconnaissance survey, the river-crossings are to be examined and decided upon, and the points determined at which the watersheds are to be crossed and the approaches to bridges set out. Trial lines should be run between the points thus fixed, and the country should be carefully examined on each side of these before the route is finally decided on. Sharp curves and steep gradients are in themselves evils, involving special cost for maintenance and for working, although original outlay may be economized by the adoption of them. A straight and horizontal surface is assumed as the standard of perfection ; and the proper business of the engineer in laying out a railway is to harmonize the engineering and the financial conditions of the problem so as to yield the highest practicable return on the money expended, and to see that, whilst the railway may be neither quite straight nor quite level, it shall not be unduly costly in construction from excessive cutting, tunnelling, and making of embankments, in order to obviate severe curves and gradients, nor excessively cheap from following the surface of the ground too closely and incurring heavy gradients and severe curves, and as a consequence heavy working expenditure.
Cuttings and Embankments. —Engineers endeavour so to plan the works of a railway that the quantity of earth to be excavated shall be equal to the quantity that goes to form the embankments. The earthwork is the foundation and support of the superstructure, and as such it must be uniformly firm, of liberal width, easy slopes, thorough drainage. Figs. 10 and 11 are type-sections of cuttings and embankments for a double line of way on the national gaιme, showing the “formation” surface and the ballast on which the permanent way is supported, with the slopes, the side drains, and the fencing. Fig. 12 is a type-section of the permanent way on the national gauge, settled by Mr John Fowler for the South Wales Railway. Upon the formation level the ballast is deposited, 2 feet in depth at the centre, dressed level, for about 22 feet in width for a double line of way. The sleepers and chairs are buried in the ballast, and the rails partially also, these standing 2 or 3 inches above the ballast. The intermediate space between the two lines of way is, as before stated, 6 feet, and, taking the lengths of the sleepers at 9 feet, the total width for two lines of way over the sleepers is 6 feet + 4 feet 8½ inches + 2½ inches × 2 (width of the rails) + 9 feet = 20 feet 1½ inches ; and it is seen that, as the ballast is 22 feet wide at the upper surface, it extends to nearly 1 foot beyond the ends of the sleeper at each side and about 3½ feet beyond the outer rails at each side.
The slopes of cuttings vary according to stratification, soil, direction of the vein, moisture. In gravel, sand, or common earth the slopes rise 1 foot for 1 to 1½ or 2 feet of base ; in solid rock the slopes are nearly vertical. Cuttings are as deep as from 50 to 100 feet below the surface, and embankments as high above. The London and Birmingham Railway had upwards of 12 million cubic yards of excavation, and 10½ millions of excavation in the original estimates, or above 100,000 cubic yards of earthwork per mile. The heaviest cutting on the line is at Tring, 2½ miles long, averaging 40 feet deep, the greatest depth being 60. In the case of the great Blisworth cutting the strata were unequal in consistency. About halfway up the face of the cutting a stratum of limestone rock, 25 feet in thickness, was found, with loose strata below and above it, and it was necessary to prevent the lower stratum, consisting of wet clay, from being forced out under the superincumbent mass by undersetting. A rubble wall, averaging 20 feet in height, was built on each side underneath the rock, strengthened by buttresses at intervals of 20 feet, resting on inverted arches carried across underneath the line. A puddle-drain was formed behind each wall, with a small drain through the wall to let off the water from behind. Fig. 13 is an elevation of the wτ est end of the cutting where it is
about 40 feet deep, show-
ing clearly the method
of undersetting, and fig.
14 is a cross section of
the side walls at the
same place, where the
left-hand shows a sec
tion of the wall in the
water, and the right-hand
side shows the section
through a buttress, together with the invert and drains. One of the walls is shown in front elevation in fig. 15. The New Cross cutting through the London clay, on the South-Eastern Railway, is 2 miles long,
and is for some
distance from
80 to nearly
100 feet in
depth. This
cutting affords
an example of
the tendency
of some soils to slip. The slopes of the cutting were finished at 2 horizontal to 1 vertical ; and they remained as thus finished for
about two years, when, after continued bad weather, the slopes commenced slipping to such an extent that the line was rendered impassable for some weeks, and parts of the slopes were reduced to an inclination of 4 to 1. The Winchburgh cutting, on the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway, is 4 miles long and from 25 to 60 feet deep, through solid rock. It is succeeded by an embankment 1^ miles long and 60 feet high, followed in immediate succession by a stone viaduct half a mile long and 80 feet high. The Olive Mount cutting of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway is 2 miles long and at some places 100 feet deep.
Perhaps the most interesting case of embankment and cutting in combination is that of the crossing of Chat Moss, on the Liverpool and Manchester Railway. The moss was 44 miles across, and it varied in depth from 10 to 30 feet. Its general character was such that cattle could not stand on it, and a piece of iron would sink in it. The subsoil was composed principally of clay and sand, and the railway had to be carried over the moss on the level, requiring cutting and embanking for upwards of 4 miles. In forming 277,000 cubic yards of embankment 670,000 yards of raw peat were consumed, the difference being occasioned by the squeezing out of the water. Large quantities of embanking were sunk in the moss, and, when the engineer, Stephenson, after a month’s vigorous operations, had made up his estimates, the apparent work done was sometimes less than at the beginning of the month. The railway ultimately was made to float on the bog. Where embankment was required drains about 5 yards apart were cut, and when the moss between them was dry it was used to form the embankment. Where the way was formed on the level drains were cut on each side of the intended line, and were intersected here and there by cross drains, by which the upper part of the moss became dry and firm. On this surface hurdles were placed, 4 feet broad and 9 long, covered with heath, upon which the ballast was laid.
*· Tunnels.—The relative costs of rock - cuttings and cuttings in clay do not greatly differ; for, not only does the vertical rock-cutting require less excavation than the wide yawning earth-cutting of the same depth, with extended slopes, but, when it is executed, the rock-cutting is not liable to the expensive slips which sometimes overtake the other. For depths exceeding 60 feet it is usually cheaper to tunnel.
The tunnel (see fig. 16) under Callander ridge near Falkirk station, on the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway, is a fair representation of
tunnels as usually constructed. It is lined with brick 18 inches thick, founded on stone footings of greater breadth, in order to throw the ,load securely upon the subsoil, as shown in the transverse section. The sides and roof of the tunnel are curved from footing to footing, so as effectually to resist the inevitable external pressure of the earth, to a span of 26 feet in width and a height of 22. The sectional view shows also the centering or timber framing employed in the building of the tunnel, which was braced diagonally and transversely to resist the unavoidable inequalities of pressure without alteration of form whilst the arch was in course of construction. Externally the entrances are built of stone, and the flank walls are 3 feet in thickness, with counterforts at intervals. This tunnel is not straight, but is formed on a curve of 1 mile radius, and is 830 yards, or nearly half a mile in length.
The Ivilsby tunnel, on the London and Birmingham Railway, was rendered necessary by the opposition raised to the line passing through Northampton. It is driven 160 feet below the surface and is 2398 yards in length, 30 feet in width, and 30 feet high, constructed with two wide air-shafts 60 feet in diameter, not only to give air and ventilation but to admit light enough to enable the engine-driver in passing through it with a train to see the rails from end to end. The construction of the tunnel was let for the sum of £99,000, but, owing chiefly to the existence of unseen quicksands, the tunnel is stated to have actually cost nearly £300,000, or £125 per lineal yard.
The Box tunnel, on the Great Western Railway, between Bath and Chippenham, was another difficult and expensive work. It is about 70 feet below the surface, and is 3123 yards in length, or rather more than If miles ; the width is 30 and the height 25 feet. Where bi'icked, the sides are constructed of seven and the arch of six rings of brick, and there is an invert of four rings. There are eleven air-shafts to this tunnel, generally 25 feet in diameter.
The tunnel under the Mound at Edinburgh (see fig. 17), on the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway, supplies an excellent illustration of tunnels formed with inverts,— that is to say, inverted arches built under the rails. The figure is a transverse section, showing the truly circular arch of the tunnel,
28 feet in diameter and 20 high above the rails, built of brick 3 feet thick, stiffened with counterforts ex-ternally, and with ribs of masonry internally, founded on a solid bed of mason-work, with an inverted arch to distribute the weight. The
Mound was a mass of loose earth and rubbish on a boggy soil, hence the necessity for the invert arch, on which the tunnel may be conceived to float.
The Shakespeare tunnel, or, more correctly, double tunnel, driven through the Shakespeare Cliff near Dover, on the South-Eastern Railway, is in fact two narrow tunnels, carrying each one line of rails (see fig. 18), 12 feet wide and 30 in extreme height, through
the chalk, separated by a solid pier or wall of chalk 10 feet thick. The chalk is of variable quality, and the greater part of the tunnel is lined with brick, strengthened by counterforts at 12 feet intervals, which carry the weight of doubtful beds of chalk. The tunnel is 1430 yards, or upwards of three-quarters of a mile in length, rising westward with an inclination of 1 in 264. The tunnel being within a short distance of the face of the cliff, the material excavated was discharged through galleries about 400 feet long, driven in from the face of the cliff, into the sea,—the first operation being to run a bench or roadway along the face of the cliff. There are seven vertical shafts from the surface, averaging 180 feet deep.
There were in 1857 about 70 miles of railway tunnelling in Great Britain, or 1 mile of tunnel for 130 miles of railway. There are now (1885) probably at least 100 miles of tunnelling. The cost of tunnelling has averaged £102 per mile. The longest tunnel is the Woodhead, at the summit of the Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway, being 3 miles and 60 feet long. The tun-nelling on the Metropolitan Railway is noticed below, p. 239.
Bridges and Viaducts.—There are very few level crossings on English railways—that is, the crossing of one railway with another, or with a common road, at the same level—the chances of accidents having demanded, in general, the construction of bridges over or under the railway. The general appearance of an ordinary stone or brick bridge is represented by fig. 19, showing in elevation a bridge over or under the railway. The minimum height of a bridge over the railway is ruled by the elevation necessary to clear the top of the chimney of the locomotive. A11 excellent method of carrying roads over railways, where the height is limited and the span is moderate, consists in erecting flat-arched cast-iron beams over the railway, and throwing brick arches of small span between the beams upon their lower flanges, to cany the roadway. Thus the vertical depth from the soffit or crown of the main arch to the roadway above may but very little exceed the depth of the beam, which is apparent in the sectional view. This method of construction is, moreover, well adapted for skew-bridges. Cast-iron
has, however, as a material for railway structures, been very generally superseded by wrought-iron, forming plate girder bridges. Timber is now almost unheard of for railway bridges on account
of its want of durability and stiffness ; and such bridges as have formerly been built of timber in Great Britain are being rebuilt of stone, brick, or plate-iron.
. The longest viaduct in England is perhaps the Congleton, on the
The Forth Bridge, designed by Mr John Fowler and Mr Benjamin Baker, is the largest and most remarkable railway bridge in the world. One of its spans is shown in elevation and plan in fig. 20. The bridge consists of 2 spans of 1700 feet each, 2 of 675 each, 15 of 168 each, and 5 of 25 each. Including the width of the piers, there is almost exactly 1 mile of main spans and half a mile of approaches by viaducts, making together about 1| miles of total length. The clear headway under the centre of the bridge is 150 feet above the level of high water, and the highest part of the bridge is 361 above the same level. Each of the three main piers consists of a group of four cylindrical piers of masonry and concrete, 49 feet in diameter at the top and from 60 to 70 in diameter at the bottom. The deepest pier is about 70 feet below low water, and the rise of the tide is 18 feet at ordinary spring tides. In the piers there are about 120,000 cubic yards of masonry and in the superstructure 44,500 tons of steel. The contract was let for the sum of £1,600,000, being at the rate of £645 per lineal yard. An impression of the magnitude of the bridge is derived from a comparison with the largest railway bridge in England, the Britannia Bridge, which has a span of 465 feet, the ratio of which to that of the Forth Bridge—1700 feet—is as 1 to 365־. The site of the Forth Bridge is at Queensferry. At this place the Firth of Forth is divided by the island of Inchgarvie into two channels, which, being as much as 200 feet in depth, precluded the construction of intermediate piers. Hence the adoption of two large spans of 1700 feet each, between which the central pier is founded on the island midway across. The bridge is composed of three double lattice-work cantilevers, like scale-beams, 1360 feet in length, poised on three substructures, and connected at their extremities by ordinary girders 350 feet long, which complete the main spans. The bridge is taper in plan, varying from a width of 120 feet—the distance apart of the lower members of the cantilevers at the piers—to a minimum of 31 £ at the ends, in order to confer a degree of stiffness laterally, for resisting irregular stresses, wind - pressure in particular. The columns above the piers, forming the basis of the cantilevers, are 12 feet in diameter. The lower booms, as well as the struts of the cantilevers, being the members in compression, are circular in cross section, this form of section having been selected as the most effective for resisting compressive stress. The lower boom is at the piers 12 feet in diameter, constructed of plates lj inches in thickness. The size is gradually reduced towards the ends, where the diameter is 5 feet, made of plates three-eighths of an inch in thickness. Correspondingly the upper member of each cantilever is a tapering box-lattice girder, rectangular in section, 12 feet deep
by 10 wide at the piers, and 5 feet by 3 at the ends. The central girders are 32 feet apart. The wind-pressure is assumed for calculation at a maximum of 56 lb per superficial foot. It is calculated that the maximum possible stress on any member of the bridge is at the rate of 7 j tons per square inch of section. The required ultimate strength of steel under compression is from 34 to 37 tons per square inch, and under tension from 30 to 33 tons. Between the two main girders the double line of way is to be carried on an
Manchester and Birmingham Railway ; it is of stone, 1026 yards or more than half a mile in length and 106 feet high, and it cost £113,000, or £113 per yard run. The Dane viaduct, on the same line, is of brick, 572 yards long and 88 feet high, and it cost £54,000, or £96 per yard run, having 23 arches of 63 feet span. The Avon viaduct, on the Midland Railway, is of brick, 240 yards in length and 51 feet high, with 11 arches of 50 feet span ; it cost £14,000, or £60 per yard run. For comparison it maybe stated that the Britannia Tubular Bridge across the Menai Straits, 616 yards long and 104 feet high, cost £600,000, or £974 per yard run. On the different lines entering London there are several miles of brick viaducts in the approaches to termini, and also at Manchester and other large cities and towns. Many interesting details might be given as to bridges and viaducts of the larger kind, but we must here confine ourselves to some account of the Forth Bridge, now in course of construction at Queensferry, referring the reader for other examples to the article Bridges.
internal viaduct (see smaller figure in fig. 20), supported by trestles and cross girders. The way will consist of heavy bridge rails, Brunel section, laid on longitudinal sleepers bedded in four steel troughs, into which the wheels will drop in case of derailment, and then run on the sleepers.
Railway Stations.—Railway stations are either “terminal” or “intermediate.” A terminal station embraces (1) the passenger station ; (2) the goods station ; (3) the locomotive, carriage, and waggon depots, where the engines and the carrying stock are kept, cleaned, examined, and repaired. At many intermediate stations the same arrangements, on a smaller scale, are made ; in all of them there is at least accommodation for the passenger and the goods traffic. The stations for passengers and goods are generally in different and sometimes in distant positions, the place selected for each being that which is most convenient for the traffic. The passenger station abuts on the main line, or, at termini, forms the natural terminus, at a place as near as can conveniently be obtained to the centre of the population which constitutes the passenger traffic. The goods station is approached by a siding or fork set off from the main line at a point short of the passenger station. Terminal branches of the railways—where, for example, there is a sharp incline—are sometimes worked by stationary engines and ropes to the point where the locomotive joins the train. The locomotive station is placed wherever the ground may most conveniently be obtained, at or near to the terminus ; in some cases it is found at a distance of 3 or 4 miles. An abundant supply of good water and ample means of drainage are important at stations. There should be ample area of land to admit of the greatest possible extension of accommodation, and the erection of buildings on land adjacent to the station grounds should be discouraged. Companies have been compelled to repurchase at greatly advanced cost land originally disposed of by them as “surplus,” and generally with a view to building operations. When this course is adopted prudent managers should take care to secure in the conveyance power to repurchase the freehold at original prices, with allowance for outlay in building or otherwise, by valuation.
In laying out the approaches and station-yard of passenger, stations ample width and space should be provided, with well-1 defined means of ingress and egress to facilitate the circulation off vehicles, and the setting-down pavement should be as long as possible, to admit of several carriages discharging passengers and luggage at the same time. The pavement should be wide and sheltered from the weather by a roof, overhanging beyond the kerb, or spanning the roadway, but in all cases free from columns. The position of the main buildings relative to the direction of the lines of rails is the distinguishing feature in terminal stations. When space permits, the usual course is to place them on the departure side parallel to the platform, but they are frequently placed at the end of the station at right angles to the rails and platforms. Or these two systems are combined in a third arrangement, in which the offices are placed in a fork, between two or more series of lines and platforms. Of the metropolitan termini, the Great Northern
passenger station, the Great Western, and the South-Western stations are examples of the first class ; the London Bridge, Cannon Street, Charing Cross, and Victoria stations (comprising the South-Eastern and the Brighton lines), and the Great Eastern and the Eenchurch Street stations (comprising the North London, Black-wall, North Woolwich, and Tilbury lines), are examples of the second class ; and the London and North-Western station is an example of the third class. The first and usual class of stations commands the greatest length of setting-down pavement, ample space for booking and other offices, waiting-rooms, &c., and the shortest average distance for passengers and luggage from the offices to the outgoing trains. Nevertheless, where the traffic is various, involving the despatch of numerous trains to different points in quick succession, and necessarily with perfect regularity, the second system is the best. But where the frontage is limited, and where trains start at some distance from the entrance, there is inconvenience in the movement of luggage over a crowded platform. The third plan is probably the least commodious of the three ; but it has the advantage of affording two arrival platforms, with carriage-roads alongside, the others having but one so situated. In all the classes, it may be observed, transverse lines are inserted with turn-tables, to place all the lines in compact communication for turning on or off spare carriages, loaded horse-boxes, or carriage-trucks. Independently of the turn-tables, the lines of rail are connected by switches or points converging towards the two main lines of rail, outgoing and incoming ; and thus the assortment and marshalling of trains may be effected by horse or engine power independently of the turn-tables. Each plan of station comprises one or more large turn-tables for reversing the engine with its tender together.
The correct arrangement and appropriation of t*he several lines of railway in a terminal station materially affect the economical and efficient working of the traffic. It is essential that every traffic line, both in and out, should be provided with one or more spare sidings, in addition to those set apart for the break-vans, horse-boxes, and carriage-trucks, and for the locomotive department. All these lines should communicate with each other by means of points and crossings, to allow of shunting with engine-power, and to reduce to the lowest limits the number of turn-tables or their substitutes. Curves ought never to have a radius of less than 800 feet.
The practice with regal’d to the height of platforms above the rails has varied considerably, the tendency being to raise them much higher than was usual at first; 3 feet may be stated aS the limit in this respect. Too much attention cannot be given to the necessity for obtaining the greatest possible width of platform. Where the platform is used on one side only, the width ought never to be less than 20 feet; and when both sides are required 80, or even 40, should be allowed. The best mode of constructing the platform is undoubtedly with stone slabs laid hollow upon longitudinal walls, so as to admit of carrying beneath it the water and gas pipes, telegraph or signal wires, and the general drainage, with free access to each. Cutting out for turn-tables and openings for cross lines of rails are frequently inevitable difficulties, which have given rise to various ingenious contrivances, as shifting-stages, drawbridges, &c. By far the best substitute for the turn-table yet introduced is the traverser. If well made and carefully worked and attended to, the shifting of carriages from line to line can be performed without extra manual labour or interference either with the rails or the platforms. The other objection is best met by the use of easy inclines, with crossings on the rail-level. Where the platforms do not exceed 2 feet in height and the surface is smooth, gradients of 1 in 10 are not too steep for luggage-barrows, nor are they dangerous in a crowd.
The earlier terminal railway stations were designed either with intermediate columns supporting the roof or with brick walls, varying in number of spans from two to five or six. It often happens that in the course of a few years such stations have to be remodelled to meet the constantly increasing traffic ; and great difficulties are occasionally met with in the rearrangement of platforms which are wasted where lines of rails have been laid, whilst rails are wasted where platforms are placed, and where columns interfere. To allow engines and carriages to pass from one line of rails to another at the shortest possible intervals it becomes necessary to have diagonal crossings from one pax־t of the station to another in many directions, while at the same time the free movements of passengers and luggage on the platforms must not be impeded. Thus there arose a system, originated, it is believed, in the great Continental termini, of constructing roofs in two spans, one covering the up lines of rails and the other the down lines. King’s Cross passenger station is an example of this kind. The principle of wide spans for the roofs of railway stations, clear of intermediate walls or columns, was adopted in England probably for the first time in 1848-49, in covering Lime Street station, Liverpool, on the London and North-Western Railway, by one span of 1532 feet. The extreme length of the roof was 374 feet. The new Lime Street station, it may be added, is covered by a roof of one span of 212 feet. Tythebarn Street station, Liverpool, on the Lancashire and
Yorkshire Railway, is covered by a roof in one span of 136 feet ; there, as the traffic increased, the lines and platforms were changed so as to admit of treble the quantity of traffic being conducted, which would have been impossible if the roof had been built with sectional spans and columns. It is averred that the railway company has been repaid the excessive cost of the single-span roof many times over in economy of working. The next single-span roof on a large scale appears to have been that of 212 feet covering the New Street station, Birmingham, in which five lines of way, belonging to different companies—the London and North-Western and others—meet and concentrate passenger and goods traffic of every description. The roof was 840 feet in length, with trusses or principals placed at intervals of 24 feet. The principal consists of one arched plate-iron girder 15 inches deep, having a rise of 45£ feet at the centre. The ends of the arch are tied by a round tie-bar 4 inches in diameter, from which the arch is strutted at intervals. This is said to cover the largest area of any station in England.
The Cannon Street station of the Charing Cross Railway is the terminus of the City extension of that line, giving direct access to the City of London for the South-Eastern Railway, and linking the Charing Cross station at the west end with the City. During the year 1867—the first year the extension was open for traffic—about 8 million passengers used the Cannon Street station, of which nearly one-half were local passengers booked between Cannon Street and Charing Cross. The length of ground between the river Thames and Cannon Street is 855 feet, of which the fore-court occupies 90, the booking-offices 85, and the shed or covered portion of the station reaching to the river 680. The station is 201 feet 8 inches wide outside the walls and 187 feet inside. The whole of the station is built on a substructure of brick piers and arches, excepting the booking-offices and the part which is over Upper Thames Street. The ordinary piers are 5 feet thick with footings 8 feet wide, resting on a bed of concrete 10 feet in thickness, and the whole of the under structure is made available for storage and other purposes. The rails and platforms are carried across Upper Thames Street on wrought-iron girders 2J feet deep to 37 feet of span. The floor of this bridge is of creasoted Baltic planking 8 inches thick. The walls of the station are of brick-work, 45 feet high above the level of the platform. They are built in piers 6 feet 4J inches thick and panels 2 feet 7\ inches thick. The roof is of one clear span of 190 feet 4J inches circular, having a rise or versed sine of 60 feet at the centre, composed of ribs constructed of plate-iron and angle-iron, and, like ordinary girders, 21 inches deep, each foot of each rib being tied by a tie-bar of round wrought-iron 5TV inches in diameter. The tie-bar rises 30 feet and the depth of the truss at the centre is 30 feet. One end or foot of the rib is fixed to the supporting wall and the other end is placed on rollers, by the aid of which the principal or truss is free to expand or to contract according to the variations of temperature. The trusses are placed at from 33| to 35 feet apart. The booking-offices, waiting-rooms, &c., are at the end of the station on the ground floor of the building, which above and below them forms the City Terminus Hotel. Parcels offices, stores, cellarage, &c., are provided in the basement, with hydraulic lifts worked by direct pressure from tanks in the towers at the south end. The used water is discharged into tanks about 9 feet above the level of the platform, whence it is again utilized for the general purposes of the station. There are nine lines of way in the station, of which eight run alongside five platforms, and one line is space for stock and for standing-room. The two outer platforms are employed for the short traffic to Greenwich and AI id-Kent and to Charing Cross, 13^ feet wide by 522 and 486 feet long respectively. The general departure platform is 665 feet long and 19 wdde ; and the two general arrival platforms, one on each side of the cab road, are 721 feet long by 12£ wide. On this system there are two lines of rail to each platform, reckoning the general arrival platforms as one ; accommodation is thus found for 4788 lineal feet of trains. These nine lines of way converge and merge in five lines of way over the bridge for a length of about 600 feet, constituting the station-yard. The first line, on the western or up-stream side, is exclusively for trains proceeding from Cannon Street to Charing Cross ; the second line is for trains approaching Cannon Street, whether from London Bridge, the country, or Charing Cross ; the centre line is exclusively for trains from London Bridge or the country ; the fourth is the main down line ; the fifth, or east line, is for engines going to or from the engine dépôt at the far end of the bridge, or for engines waiting for their trains. The movements of the trains are regulated from the signal-bridge, which crosses the converged lines of way at a distance of about 140 feet from the south end of the station, by means of about forty pairs of points, with twenty-four semaphore arms, eight of which are for trains outward and sixteen for trains inward. The signal-box on the bridge is 42 feet long and 9 wide, and contains sixty-seven levers, by thirty-seven of which signals on Saxby and Farmer’s system are worked, and by thirty the points are worked. Several of the point-levers work the switches at both ends of cross-over lines. The signals lock the points and each other, so that no contradictory signals can be
given ; nor can ingress to or egress from a platform be given until the points are set accordingly. There are in the locking frame thirty-two slides and about a thousand locks, and an idea of the duty that falls on this apparatus may be formed from the fact that 775 trains have passed under the signal-bridge in a single working day (Whit-Monday), and that, each train being reversed here, a fresh engine has to be attached to it, the superseded engine being passed into a siding. In the course of thirty-five minutes one morning thirty-five trains were signalled and passed in or out of the station. The duty of signalling is performed by twτ o men.
The cost of the works of the Cannon Street station, with the cost for Charing Cross station for comparison, is shown in Table XXV. (below). The substructure is reckoned to the formation-level, inclusive of the public footway under Charing Cross station and the public roadway under Cannon Street station, but exclusive of the river abutment of the bridge. The superstructure includes the fore-court, booking-offices, fittings, towers, roof, gas and water mains, &c., excluding the permanent way.
The total cost of the works of the whole Charing Cross Railway, from London Bridge station to Cannon Street and Charing Cross, with the terminal stations, was £1,160,118. The cost of the land for the whole railway, after deducting the value of surplus land, Hungerford Bridge, pier tolls, &c., was £1,900,000, making a total for land and works of over £3,000,000. For this sum there are 4⅜ miles of railway for double line, the cost being at the rate of £680,000 per mile. The works include two large bridges over the river Thames, a number of expensive bridges over streets, viaducts, and two large metropolitan termini. The cost for land at Cannon Street station was at the rate of £3,15s. 7d. per square foot, and that at Charing Cross station was £2, 18s. 5d.
St Pancras passenger station of the Midland Railway is the most recently constructed metropolitan terminus. The approach to the land on which the station is built was crossed by the Regent’s Canal, and in order to secure good gradients and suitable levels for metropolitan suburban stations the main passenger line is earned over the canal ; and, as a result, the level of St Pancras station is from 12 to 17 feet higher than that of the adjoining roads. The St Pancras branch, on the contrary, for effecting a junction with the Metropolitan Railway, leaving the main line some distance from the terminus, descends through a tunnel beneath the Regent’s Canal and the passenger station, as well as under a considerable length of the main line. The height of the rails above the ground-level admitted of the construction of a lower floor with direct access to the streets, built and arranged for Burton beer traffic. The floor of the station is supported on girders and columns extending from side to side and acting as a tie for the roof girders, which start from the ground-level and form the roof as a single arch. The ribs or girders forming the roof are laid to a clear span of 240 feet ; the walls built between the ribs are 245½ feet apart. The clear height of the ribs above the level of the platforms is 96 feet at the centre. The length of the station is 689 feet 4 inches. The lower floor contains 720 cast-iron columns set on brick piers, and 49 rows of principal girders across the station, with 15 rows longitudinally. Upon these intermediate girders are carried, and the whole is covered in with Mallett’s buckled plates. The cost of the ironwork of the floor was £57,000, being at the rate of £3, 0s. 6d. per square yard. The roof girders, twenty-five in number, are placed at intervals of 29 feet 4 inches, except at the outer end, where the last two girders are only 14 feet 8 inches apart. The cost of the roof, including covering, with two gables and screens, amounted to £69,365, being at the rate of £40, 18s. per square of 100 square feet or 10 feet square. If there had not been any floor-girders to act as roof-ties, the extra cost for ties at the level of the floor would have been about £1 per square.
Table XXVI. gives the spans and areas covered by the roofs of some of the principal London passenger termini :—
The goods and mineral station at King’s Cross may be selected as an example of such stations. It comprises coal dépôts and wharves, potato-stores, engine-sheds, repairing sheds, stores, stables, and all the necessary offices, buildings, and appliances required for the goods and mineral traffic of the company. Twelve lines of rail run into the goods-shed, with a platform at each side for the receipt and despatch of goods. On the outer side of the rails, within the building, space is reserved for the vans engaged in collecting and distributing the goods. The outer line of rails at the east side of the platform is used for unloading the -waggons with the inward goods, and that on the west side for loading the outward goods. The inner lines nearest to these are used for the arrival of goods trains, for empty waggons, and for making up trains for departure. The waggons, after being unloaded, are taken by means of turntables and cross-roads to the departure side of the station, where the business of loading and despatching them is carried on. The platforms have each two rows of hydraulic cranes, of 1 and 2 tons lifting power alternately. The receiving offices are on the platforms, but the general offices are adjacent to the main building. The stables are under the platform ; the granary is at the south end of the goods-shed, through which it is approached by two lines running through the middle of the shed,—two other lines, one on each side of them, being reserved for full waggons. When emptied, the waggons are removed by two lines which run one on each outer side of the goods-shed. The shed and the granary are supplied with water communication through tunnels under the roads to a basin on the south, and thence to the Regent’s Canal ; and lighters can receive or discharge their freights directly under the buildings. On the west of the goods-shed are the coal dépôts and staiths. The coal arriving at the station is discharged in some cases directly from the waggons into carts alongside ; in other cases it is discharged through hoppers on to weighing machines at a lower level, and thence filled into sacks. For this operation there is a frontage of 343 yards ; and there is in addition a coal dépôt in Cambridge Street, adjoining the goods-yard, with a frontage of 196 yards. There is a coal and stone dock or basin connected with the Regent’s Canal, where barges are loaded directly from the coal - waggons, either through doorways in the bottom of the waggons or by discharging the coal from the sides of the waggons into hoppers. There is also a hopper at the Cambridge Street dépôt for the purpose of loading barges on the canal. Adjoining the canal basin there are numerous private wharves for bricks and other merchandise. To the north are the locomotive and carriage sheds for repairing the stock, also two engine-running sheds, one round and the other rectangular. The goods, mineral, and locomotive stations cover an area of about 70 acres, and the total area covered by the goods and passenger stations and the running lines to Copenhagen tunnel is upwards of 90 acres. The principal goods-shed and granary is 300 feet long and 175 wide, and the area occupied by the goods-warehouses, potato-market, coal-offices, and other buildings amounts to 8¾ acres. In addition, 1 acre is covered by open sheds and 1⅜ acres by the stables and the engineers’ shops. The engine-sheds can hold eighty-four engines and tenders, and they, with the workshops, tanks, carriage-repairing shops, and sundry premises, cover 2½ acres.@@1 There are in the goods, mineral, and engine yards 28½ miles of single line of way and more than 250 sets of switches, 200 turn-tables for waggons, and one for engines and tenders ; of that length of line 11⅜ miles of sidings are used for coal-waggons.
It is unnecessary to dwell at length on the arrangement of small terminal stations for branch lines. Where the line is single a single platform suffices, the trains being light and moving only in one direction at one time.
In fixing intermediate stations the first step should be to get a good map of all the places -within the scope of the railway, and to mark upon it the population of each place from the last parliamentary census. The greater the number of stations, the more the travelling increases ; for quick and cheap transit creates traffic. Stations, especially important ones, should be on the surface rather than on an embankment or a viaduct or in a cutting. Facilities of access in all directions from the surrounding districts, with good roads in the case of passenger traffic, and good water and railway communication for goods dépôts, are obviously indispensable. For safety and regularity there should be an uninterrupted view along the line of railway—no sharp curves or complication of over-bridges —in the vicinity of a large station. Intermediate and junction stations should be situated on dead levels, since, when a good length of level can be had, with gradients falling from it both ways, there is the greatest possible facility for working the traffic. Falling gradients towards a station are objectionable, but cannot in all cases be avoided. When the station is situated midway between towns of such extent as to cause an equal flow of traffic in each direction, offices may be requisite on both sides of the line ; but, where the bulk of the traffic tends one way only, it will be desirable to concentrate it on that side which involves the larger number of passengers and the greater extent of waiting space.
@@@1 The headquarters of the locomotive and carriage department are at Doncaster station.
This rule, again, will be modified by the position of the town or the district whence the traffic is to be derived, especially if the railway lies on the natural surface and adjoins a public road, whether crossing on the level or otherwise. This last condition is the most frequent one ; and, as some portion at least of the traffic must be expected to depart from the platform opposite to the offices, provision must be made for crossing with the least amount of danger to the public. When the passengers are numerous in both directions, over-bridges, as before stated, are objectionable; and in a surface-station an archway under the line is frequently impracticable. Some good authorities have adopted the plan of making the trains take up and set down the passengers at one platform only, when the platform may be made rather more than double the length of a single train, having crossings in the centre to communicate with both lines of rails, thus placing the trains when standing on the platform upon a loop-siding distinct from those lines. This system offers great convenience to the public when there is much first-class traffic and a large quantity of baggage ; and it is especially applicable when the station partakes of the character of a terminus, or is used as a receiver from branch or neighbouring lines, offering, as it does, great facilities for making up and receiving trains which may run over a portion only of the main lines, as well as for attaching and detaching the carriages intended or used for branch traffic, i The buildings and yards in junction stations may be placed in the fork between the two double lines of railway forming the junction, or beyond the point of junction.
Locomotive stations comprise two departments,—the running : and the constructing and repairing of engines and tenders. The chief locomotive station of the Midland Railway at Derby may be taken as an example. It is contiguous to the passenger station, and is in communication with the main line by a number of sidings branching off at the north end of that station, near the bridge over the Derby Canal. The area of ground enclosed is about 80 acres, of which 12 are covered by buildings. The walls of the erecting shops are 284 feet high ; those of the fitting and other shops are 20. The tools are 693 in number. The number of locomotives housed at Derby station (1885) is 289. There is room in the erecting shops for seventy-one locomotives. The workshops are capable of turning out 120 engines per year—say, thirty new engines with tenders, and ninety engines with new boilers, cylinders, and other working parts.
The carriage and waggon works of the Midland Railway at Derby are situated about half a mile south of the passenger station, with which they are connected by a double line of way branching out from the south end of the station. The works were built in 1875-76, on an enclosed piece of land 67 acres in extent, of which 19| are covered by buildings. There are 15J miles of single way within the enclosure. The workshops are built in blocks, separated by open spaces of at least 70 feet in width. They consist principally of seven large shops, of red brick, the walls being of a uniform height of 21 feet; four on the west side are devoted to the preparation of timber and the building and painting of carriages and waggons, and three on the east side to the manipulation of various metals, comprising the foundry and iron stores, the smithy and the machine and fitting shop. Each block of building is entirely surrounded by a 7-inch water-main continually charged with water at a pressure sufficient to throw a jet over the ridge of the roof of any of these buildings. Vehicular communication is carried on between the shops on the east and the west side of the works by means of traversing tables, the rails for which are laid the entire distance across the shops from north to south, and intersect the nine principal lines of sidings flanking the shops. Both steam-power and horse-power are used for moving the traversers.
The saw-mill is 320 feet long and 200 wide. In the cellar underneath all the main shafting, pulleys, and belting are placed. About a hundred loads of oak logs are converted into plank or scantling weekly. There are in all about a hundred machines for sawing and working wood. Outside the saw-mill are large crosscutting saw-benches, with circular saws 6 feet in diameter, by which logs of deal are cut to the required length before being taken into the mill. The waggon-shop is 320 feet long and 200 wide. The carriage building and finishing shop is 384 by 200 feet wide. In the panel-shed fitted with louvre ventilators, mahogany panel boards, maple boards, &c., are stored for about two years, to be thoroughly dried and seasoned before being used in vehicles. The painting and trimming shop is 384 by 300 feet. It has seventeen lines of rails, each capable of holding ten ordinary vehicles. From the commencement to the finish, twenty-five distinct operations— pruning, filling up, rubbing down, painting, varnishing—are performed on a passenger carriage. Young girls and women—the children and widows of the company’s servants who have lost their lives by accident in the service—are employed on the light work of sewing, stuffing of cushions and backs of carriages, french-polishing, washing and dyeing, cleaning and lacquering light brass-work and gilding.
The foundries, iron and brass, are 200 feet long by 90 wide. Two thousand tons of iron castings are turned out annually. There are the bar-iron stores 200 by 45 feet, the general stores 150 by 90 feet, and the mess-room 45 by 70 feet, providing accommodation for 500 workmen ; also two smiths’ shops, one of them 226 by 200 feet, the other 140 by 200 feet; the machine and fitting shop, 400 by 225 feet; and the coal-waggon repairing shop, 350 by 300 feet. The carriage and waggon works just noticed are capable of turning out seven new carriages and eighty new waggons weekly. All the building of railway carriages for the Midland Railway is done at their works, and 80 per cent, of the new waggons are built here. Eighty per cent, of the carriages and 20 per cent, of the waggons are repaired here. The machinery of all kinds laid down for carrying on the business of the carriage and waggon works comprises 500 machine tools, 9 steam-engines, 1 gas-engine, 15 stationary boilers, 4 warming boilers, 3 steam traversers, 2 steam cranes, 2 steam travelling cranes, with a number of hydraulic cranes and overhead cranes.
One of the engine houses or sheds for engines on duty, at Gorton station, on the Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire railway, is shown in fig. 21. It is a rotunda of 150 feet in diameter inside,
and is capable of holding seventeen engines with their tenders, leaving the entrance and exit lines clear. The advantage of this arrangement over the ordinary polygonal engine-house is in the absence of pillars for supporting the roof, of which there are twelve for a twelve-sided polygon; in this building there is but one column, at the centre. To the left of the entrance is a furnace for holding live fuel, from which the engines are lighted ; and there are two lines of rail across the central turn-table, on one of which the engines enter and on the other depart. Between the rails of each radiating line a pit is constructed to afford access below the engines for inspection. The roof is of wrought-iron, surmounted by a louvre for ventilation, which is glazed to admit light freely. In the engine-shed of the North-Eastern Railway at Newcastle five ordinary engine-house rotundas have been replaced by a single rectangular building 450 by 280 feet with five turn-tables. This shed has berths for ninety engines, and the extra space enclosed by the rectangular building as against separate rotundas is used for executing minor repairs.
Station Fittings.—The use of switches and crossings is to form a Jink of communication between one line of rails and another. They are either constructed with ordinary rails or with rails specially rolled, and are carried in cast-iron chairs spiked down to sleepers. The switch-rails are movable, and when worked independently are moved by rods to which heavy weights are attached, —the function of the weights being to retain the points in one position, and to act as a self-acting adjustment in restoring them to their normal position after they have been shifted for the passage of a vehicle or a train. "When only one of the terminal rails is movable it is called a single switch and is used only on sidings or branch lines of rail. The double switches, being more perfect in
action, are adopted on the main line ; and, as a general rule, switches on the main line are ordered to be laid with the points in the direction of the traffic, so that passing trains may run out of the points, and not into them. “ Facing-points,” as they are termed, are such as are laid on the main line, facing or pointing towards the regular advancing trains. Many accidents have been caused to trains by facing-points, improperly set or out of order, turning the train unexpectedly into a siding, when it was impossible to pull up in time to prevent a collision, or throwing the train off the rails altogether. So dangerous are facing-points felt to be, particularly on high-speed lines, that on some railways they are absolutely forbidden at all except at terminal stations and at intermediate stations where every train is ordered to stop. In some situations this rule can only be followed by sacrificing simplicity and increasing the number of backing-points ; but it no doubt diminishes the risk of accident.
Turn-tables are of two classes,—for turning carriages and waggons, and for turning engines and tenders together. Those ordinarily used are of cast-iron, and carry two transverse lines of rails. They revolve upon a central pivot and conical rollers near the circumference, which are upheld by and turn upon a cast - iron base bedded in cement, or on a. built foundation (see fig. 22). For turning engines and tenders together turntables about 40 feet long are required. A common plan of table consists of two longitudinal balks of timber, to carry a line of rails, framed together with cast - iron beams in such aJ way that the
centre is supported on a pivot and the extremities on rollers. The table revolves, in a pit about 4 feet deep, on a large circular race of cast-iron bedded on a firm foundation to carry the rollers, and the motive force is applied by means of gearing. In situations where there is much traffic it is needful to extend the deck of the table laterally, like wings, to complete the circle, and so cover in the pit.
Traversers are a convenient substitute for turn-tables, particularly for working a number of parallel lines of rails. A traverser is simply a low rectangular frame, made with two overhanging rails, to receive carriages or waggons, and movable on rollers across the lines of rail, so as to receive the carriage from any one line of rail and deposit it on any other.
Water-cranes for delivering water to locomotives are too familiar to every one to need description.
Railway Signals.—The earliest passenger railways were opened without any fixed signals. Flags and disks, elevated on posts and pillars, were first employed, in various forms, and were worked on various codes. Sir Charles Hutton Gregory, about the year 1841, designed and erected at New Cross station, on the Croydon Railway, the semaphore signal, an adaptation of the old form of semaphore used for telegraphing over short distances. This was the most important step ever taken in the development of railway signalling. The semaphore has been almost universally adopted for fixed signalling on railways. There are two arms, to the right and to the left, to command trains arriving in either direction. The arm is turned out horizontally, in a position perpendicular to the post, to signal danger; diagonally downwards at an angle of about 45’ as a signal of caution ; and it is turned home, disappearing within the post, when the line is right for the approach of a train. But the general practice now (1885) is to work the semaphore in two positions only,—at danger and at caution. It is thus always in sight, and its position can be identified without hesitation. To make the signal system safe there must be clear definition and strict enforcement of the duties of the attendant; good men must be selected at adequate pay, and they must have convenient, warm, well-fitted lodges, with ample window-space, within which they may keep a constant watch over the line ■without exposure to weather. At junctions and other important signal-stations the lodges should be raised some height above the surface, to give perfect supervision in every direction and prevent distraction. At night the place of semaphores or disks is supplied by large and powerful lamps with reflectors, capable of showing lights of three colours,—a white light, a blue or green light, and a red light, signifying respectively safety, caution, danger ; or, as in general practice, two lights only are shown,—red and green.
Signalling has been a subject of much controversy, and has been divided into two main systems. In “ negative ” signalling the normal position is that of caution, or that of safety, as the practice may be, and the signal is only turned on to danger when specially required for the protection of the station on the line. On the other hand, the “ positive ” system presupposes the normal state of the signal to be that of danger, so that, if the signalman neglect his duty to lower the semaphore when the station is clear for the passage of an approaching train, the train is bound to stop. The positive system has long been in successful operation at all large and important junctions., In such a situation the use of a stringent code is manifestly conducive to the greatest degree of safety, as by the unavoidable intersections of the lines of rails there are many chances of collision. The positive system has been merged in what is known as the block system of signalling,—that is to say, ! the positive system has been on most railways extended to every s station on the lines in combination with telegraphic signalling. The best, perhaps the only, safeguard against error on the part of the persons in charge of trains is to be found in the adoption of the absolute block system, and of means for enabling engine-drivers to observe signals well in advance. The absolute block system consists in dividing the line of railway into intervals of convenient lengths, and by means of telegraphic and fixed signals allowing only one train at a time on any single length of single way. The signalman at station A does not send a second train to station B until he receives a signal from station B that the first train has arrived there ; meantime the signal at A stands at danger until the man at B signals the arrival of the train at B. Under the “permissive block ” system it is simply permitted to signalman B to block signalman A in the event of anything occurring at station B that may render that course advisable. But, supposing that a train has just left station A, then the message from B comes too late to enable signalman A to prevent the train from running into the obstruction at B. The permissive system has been well tried on the principal railways, and is preferred on some lines because it admits of trains being passed on one after another with greater rapidity than on the absolute block system. But it does not afford much protection, and it is now generally preferred to work on the absolute block system, and, for the purpose of doing so effectually, to erect intermediate stations on lines of constant traffic, so as to provide shorter intervals for blockings and obviate the delay incidental to unduly long intervals. The average distance apart of passenger stations is, say, 3 miles, but the distance of signal-stations, whilst it seldom exceeds 4 miles, is frequently only a quarter of a mile, and the average interval may be taken as 1^ miles. Distant signals—that is, signals placed at a distance in advance of points of danger and worked by wire communication from the signal-box—were, it is believed, first introduced on the North British Railway at Meadowbank station near Edinburgh in 1846, after the opening of the Hawick branch. In 1852 the Great Northern Railway was completely fitted with distant signals of the semaphore type. Distant signals are occasionally fixed at 1500 yards’ distance ; but beyond 800 yards their action is uncertain, and it is checked by a repeater—electric or mechanical—by which, by way of confirmation, the signal is returned to the signalman.
As railway junctions were multiplied it became apparent, not only that distant signals were to be provided for distinct lines, but that concerted action should be established between signals and switches. They are said to be connected when they are simply coupled together and are moved simultaneously. They are said to be interlocked when the necessary movement of the switches is' completed before that of the signal to safety is commenced ; and,! conversely, the movement of the signal to danger is completed before the movement of the switches can be commenced. This is the fundamental principle of the interlocking system of signalling now generally practised. By the combination of the absolute block system and the interlocking system the greatest possible number of trains are enabled to travel over one pair of rails in a given time. At Cannon Street station, at the busiest time of the day, eighteen trains arrive and eighteen depart within an hour; 108 operations of shifting switches and signals, by means of sixty-seven levers or handles, have to be performed in that time. On the North London Railway, at Liverpool Street station, 250 trains pass over the same rails in a day of nineteen hours, averaging only four minutes between trains ; frequently only two minutes elapse. The number of trains daily using Moorgate Street station on the Metropolitan Railway is more than 770, involving twice as many movements of engines—1540 movements—on four lines of way in nineteen hours, and every movement is separately signalled. This, of course, could not be performed without the aid of electric mstru-
ments, to enable the signalmen to communicate with each other, and to have a constant record on the faces of the instruments to show what is being done.
Metropolitan Railways.
Railways designed for the local service of large cities are necessarily either sunk below or raised above the level of the streets. The late Mr Charles Pearson, solicitor to the City of London, was the originator of the system of intra-metropolitan railways. He worked at the subject from the year 1837. The Metropolitan and the Metropolitan District Railways in and around London are examples of the underground system. In 1854 the first Act of Parliament was passed; the works were commenced in 1860 ; the first section of the line—Paddington to Farringdon Street—was opened in January 1863, Mr John Fowler being the engineer. Several consecutive extensions into the City and towards Westminster and the Mansion House were made at different times, until the “inner circle ” was completed in October 1884, thirty years after the passing of the first Act, and twenty-four years after the commencement of the work of construction. The inner circle of railways as constructed is the direct outcome of the recommendation of the Lords’ Committee of 1863, that they should abut upon, if they did not actually join, nearly all the principal railway termini in the metropolis, completing the circle by a line on the north side of the Thames. The total length of the inner circle is 13 miles and 176 yards. About 2 miles of this length are laid with four lines of rails, and there are twenty-seven stations on the circle at an average distance of half a mile apart. The combined length of the two systems, including the extensions beyond the inner circle, amounted in December 1883 to 40 miles.
The cost of the Metropolitan Railway system, 22 miles in length, in December 1883 has already been stated as £500,000 per mile, and that of the Metropolitan District Railway system, 18 miles in length, as £374,000 per mile. In 1871, when the works had been completed and opened from Moorgate Street to Mansion House station, the capital expenditure by the District Railway Company for works and equipment of 7 j miles of double-line railway was officially stated to be £5,147,000 ; and by the Metropolitan Railway Company £5,856,000 on lOj miles, —subject to deduction in respect of surplus lands. The combined cost for 17¿ miles was at the rate of £630,000 per mile—the greater cost per mile being, no doubt, due to the gi’eater proportion of underground work. The cost of the 1^ miles recently opened between ]Mansion House and Aldgate stations was about £450,000, or about £400,000 per mile. The longer axis of the inner circle is about 5^ miles in length, east and west, and the shorter about 2 miles long at the widest part, north and south. The line runs at very various levels, traversing the sloping ground that stretches from the river Thames towards the heights of Hampstead and Highgate. Several natural sewers, formerly clear brooks or tidal channels, now covered, are traversed by the railway. They occasioned many difficulties and great outlay, as they required to be conveyed across the line in specially constructed conduits. The Ranelagh sewer, for instance, is carried under the Metropolitan Railway at Gloucester Terrace in a brick-built channel 9 feet wide by 8 high ; and over the District Railway at Sloane Square station in a cast-iron tube 9 feet in diameter, supported on wrought-iron girders of 70 feet span. The Fleet Ditch had to be crossed five times. The average level of the rails of the District Railway, which traverses the old bed of the river and the swamps of Pimlico and Bridge Creek, is 13 feet below Thames high-water mark ; whilst that of the northern part, on the Metropolitan Railway, is 60 feet above that datum, making 73 feet of difference of level, and giving rise to heavy works and steep gradients at the west and east ends of the circle. Cuttings 42 feet deep and a tunnel 421 yards in length are found at Campden Hill on the west; and cuttings 33 feet deep and a tunnel 728 yards in length at Clerken-well on the east, on gradients of 1 in 75 and 1 in 100 respectively.
The works of construction consist of covered ways, tunnels, and open cuttings with retaining v׳alls. The cost of property precluded the use of ordinary open cuttings with slopes. The covered ways were formed by making open cuttings in the first place and then building “open” or artificial tunnels, and covering them in, so as to restore the surface. The sides of the cuttings were made vertical or nearly vertical, and they were supported by timber framing or poling boards till the masonry of the tunnel was completed. The line from Paddington to Moorgate was made in this way with a mixed gauge—that is, the 7 feet gauge and the 4 feet 8i inch gauge in combination—to take the traffic of the Great Western Railway as well as that of national gauge lines. The covered way was therefore made 28J feet wide and 17 high for the mixed gauge, and the arch is elliptical, built of seven “rings” or courses of brick, with side walls three bricks or 27 inches thick, on footings 4 feet wide. At the junction of a branch with the main line a “bell-mouth ” or expanding arch was constructed in which the span was gradually enlarged to 60 feet. The covered way on the extension, where the national gauge alone was laid, was 25 feet wide. The normal or standard type of arched covered way is 15 feet 9 inches high above the level of the rails. The side walls are three bricks or 27 inches in thickness, and the backs of the walls are carried down vertically to the foundation. The arch was ordinarily built with five rings of bricks, making 22£ inches of thickness ; but the number of rings was increased occasionally to eight, nine, or ten rings. The haunches of the arch are backed with concrete. The footings of the walls rest on concrete foundations 30 inches in thickness. A drain-pipe 18 inches in diameter is laid longitudinally along the middle of the tunnel. The whole of the tunnelling of the District Railway, of which Mr Fowler was the engineer, was put in with open cuttings. Two trenches 6 feet wide were sunk to receive the side walls, which were built up to a level 4 feet above the springing of the arch. As the construction of the walls proceeded the timbering was removed and replaced by concrete backing behind the walls. The earth in the middle, called the “ dumpling ” or core, was excavated to such a level as to admit of the centering being put into position for the turning of the arch. When the arch was built and the centering removed, the dumpling, which had been utilized for transport, was excavated down to the floor-level from the ends, whence the stuff was conveyed away. By this economical method of procedure the only earth and gravel that required to be lifted was that which was excavated in forming the trenches for the side walls. It was raised by means of steam-cranes travelling on temporary rails laid by the sides of the excavations. Again, the centering for the arch was supported on the core, and was simple and less costly than ordinary centering. The complete arch is shown in section in fig. 23. Inverts, or inverted arches, were laid in across the bottom, between the footings of the walls, where, from the nature of the soil or from excessive
lateral pressure, the floor was thought likely to rise. W hen there was not sufficient depth for a brick arched way the side walls were made, as shown in fig. 24, of brick and concrete, in bays 8 feet wide, of piers and recesses, spanned by cast-iron girders from 18 to 30 inches in depth, carrying jack-arches between them. The average cost of the arcli-covered ways, 25 feet wide, was about £40 per lineal yard, as against £52 per yard for the girder-covered way.
On the inner circle there are three tunnels,—the Clerkenwell I tunnel, 728 yards long, of which the level of the rails was from c 29 to 59 feet" below the surface of the ground; the “widening” tunnel, 733 yards long, parallel to the Clerkenwell tunnel; and the tunnel under Campden Hill, 421 yards in length. Even when the utmost precautions are taken, tunnelling through a town is a risky operation. Settlements may occur years after the completion of the works ; water mains may be broken in the streets and in the houses; stone staircases may fall down; and other unpleasant symptoms of instability may show themselves. The cost of the tunnel of 25 feet in width was at the rate of £63 per lineal yard.
Open cuttings are 28^ feet in clear width on the original line of mixed gauge and 25 feet wide on the extensions. The retaining walls are of brick and concrete, in 11 feet bays, consisting of piers 3 feet wide on the face, and recesses between the piers 8 feet wide. They are inclined backwards with a batter of l| inches to 1 foot. The foundations are 5 feet below the level of the rails, and the thickness of the walls at the base is 40 per cent., or two-fifths of the height. Occasionally, where the depth is considerable, the thickness is less, and one or two rows of
cast-iron struts, according to the depth, are placed between the walls at the upper part to take the thrust. A section of open cutting with two rows of struts is shown in fig. 25. The cost of open cuttings 25 feet wide and 25 deep was, say, £67 per lineal yard, or with one row of cast-iron struts £55 per yard. With two rows of struts for a depth of 42 feet, the cost was £108 per lineal yard. It was the intention originally to make the stations as well as the railway strictly “underground,” and those at Baker Street, Portland Road, and Gower Street were so constructed. At Baker Street a segmental arch of 45 feet span and 10 feet 4 inches of rise extends over the entire length of 300 feet of platform. The cost of such a station, including booking-offices, restorations, and other contingencies, amounted to £18,000. Ou the extensions the stations were, when the conditions admitted it, placed in open cuttings, roofed over, 300 feet long, with platforms 15 feet wide. The average cost exceeded that of the same length of ordinary covered way by from £14,000 to £22,000. Not only sewers but gas mains and water mains occasionally demanded very expensive diversions. In passing Broad Sanctuary 2000 feet of gas mains, ranging from 14 to 30 inches in diameter, were diverted ; and in simply crossing High Street, Kensington, 600 feet of pipes of from 3 to 30 inches bore were diverted. In passing a sound building on a good foundation the work was executed in short lengths, with carefully timbered trenches quickly followed up by the concrete and brickwork of the retaining walls or covered way. Under the houses of Pembridge Square the side walls of the railway were constructed in short lengths, and to form the roof of the covered way main girders of 25 feet span were slipped between the walls of the houses at convenient places, between which jack-arches were built. At Park Crescent only a floor of old ship timber separates the kitchens from the railway. The permanent way originally consisted of wrought-iron flange rails with longitudinal sleepers and then of steel flange rails ; but these have been gradually replaced by double-headed rails in chairs. Fig. 26 shows a section of the covered way under Queen Victoria Street, with the main sewer underneath and the galleries for pipes, &c., at the sides.
The Glasgow City and District Railway will supply important links of communication between the railways on the north side of the river Clyde. The line extends from College station, High Street, by George Street and Regent Street, crossing Dumbarton Road to the existing Stobcross line, over a length of nearly 2£ miles, almost wholly underground. Of this length 1700 yards, or nearly 1 mile, are tunnelled and 1000 yards are covered way. The tunnels are arched with four rings of biick in cement, to a clear height of 18.} feet at the crown and 27 feet in width, for two lines of way. The covered way is arched over with brick.
We may take the “elevated railroads” of New York as an instance of metropolitan railways for local service above ground. In 1867 the first attempt was made to improve existing means of transit between the residential and the business quarters of the city by the construction of an elevated railroad worked by a wire rope and a stationary engine. The railroad passed into other hands in 1872, and the New York Elevated Railroad Company wr as formed. The lines of this and of the Metropolitan Elevated Railroad Company are now worked together by the Manhattan Railway Company. From the southern terminus of the former railway at South Ferry diverge the lines by which the eastern and western sides of the city are • traversed. Junctions are made with the Grand Central Dépôt of the New York Central and other railroads, and with the New York City and Northern Railroad. In the beginning of 1880 the elevated system was worked over 34£ miles of line ; in 1884 96,702,620 passengers were carried over the system, averaging 265,000 per day, over half on one line (3d Ave.). Trains run every two minutes in the morning and evening, when the fares are 5 cents or 2£d. for any distance ; and in the quieter hours of the day every four or five minutes for a general fare of 10 cents or 5d. The working charges amounted in 1883-84 to 58 per cent, of the gross earnings. On the New York Elevated Railroad the line is supported on square wrought-iron lattice-work columns let into cast-iron base blocks founded on brickwork and concrete, at distances of from 37 to 44 feet apart. Where the street traffic is crowded a single row of columns is planted in the line of each curb, on the upper ends of which a pair of longitudinal girders are fixed to carry a line of way, 22£ feet high above the street level, as shown in fig. 27, at each side of the street. In other situations the two lines of way are supported at a height of 21 feet on longitudinal girders in the middle of the street, fixed to transverse girders, which span the street and are carried on columns at the curbs. A third arrangement is adopted where the columns are planted in the street at a distance transversely of 23| feet, as in fig. 28, each carrying a line of rails at a height of 18 feet, and connected at intervals by arched bracing to steady the structure. In this illustration the street is occupied by a double line of tramway. The rails are of the Vignoles pattern, of Bessemer steel, weighing 50 lb per yard, spiked to cross timber sleepers, and guarded by two longitudinal timbers, one on each side of each rail. The sharpest curve on the main line has 90 feet of radius. The gradients conform, for the most part, to those of the streets, and the steepest gradient is 1 in 50 for a length of 800 yards. The traffic is worked with outside cylinder, four-coupled wheel, bogie-truck locomotives, weighing in working order 19^ tons. The driving-wheels are 3^ feet in diameter, and the
cylinders 12 inches in diameter with a stroke of 16 inches. The cars are of the usual American type, entered from each end, 45 feet long and 8 wide, with seats for forty-two passengers. They are placed on two bogie trucks, and weigh 12 tons. The trains are provided with continuous air-brakes. The stations are about one-third of a mile apart; the platforms are 200 feet long and 13 wide. The cost per mile of double way is given by Mr R. E. Johnston as follows:—
Foundations, columns, girders, superstructure, and permanent way .. £57,696
Stations............................................................ 12,000
Five locomotives................................................... 4,000
Tw'elve cars....................................................... 7,660
Total per mile..........................................£81,376
No payment has been made for way-leave along the streets, nor for compensation to frontagers, though it is known that in the residential quarters traversed by the railroads rents have in many instances, at least, been depreciated to the extent of 50 per cent.
Permanent Wat.
The permanent way consists of rails, chairs, spikes, keys, and sleepers laid in    a bed    of ballast deposited on the formation.    The
sleepers of substructure should be bedded on broken stones, cinders, or gravel, at least 12 inches in depth under the sleepers, without
any clay or other material in it that might interfere with the drainage of water through the ballast to the formation.
Gauge.—The measure of the standard or British national gauge of railways is 4 feet 8½ inches of width between the rails forming a line of rails or a way. There are many other gauges in existence in different parts of the world. In England the gauge of 7 feet, originally adopted on the Great Western Railway, was known as the “broad gauge” in contradistinction to the ordinary gauge of 4 feet 8½ inches, which was for a long time known as the “ narrow gauge.” But the 7 feet gauge has been to a great extent replaced by the 4 feet 8½ inch or national gauge, and it is being gradually replaced altogether. The lengths of line now (1885) laid on the two gauges on the Great Western Railway are as follows :—
Miles. Yards.
7 feet gauge ............................................ 183 924
Mixed gauge............................................ 243 1034
4 feet 8½ inch gauge ....................................1789    594
„    ,, joint, half the length being taken as in
the Great Western system ............................ 84    946
Total length of line............................ 2300 1738
The name of “narrow gauge ” has now ceased to be applicable to the standard gauge, and is reserved for gauges of much less width,— the metre gauge and others of from 2 to 3 or 3½ feet wide. Why a fractional measure of gauge should have been selected is a question which has puzzled many people. The fact seems to be that the track of the original carts or trains—5 feet wide outside the wheels— was taken as a standard for the gauge of rails, which was measured outside also. The width of the single rail at the top being originally 1¾ inches, the width for the two rails together is 3½ inches, which leaves 4 feet 8½ inches for the inside measure or true gauge. There are in the United Kingdom a few railways of gauge narrower than the standard gauge, of which instances occur in the following lines :—Festiniog, 1 foot 11½ inches ; Talyllyn, 2 feet 6 inches ; Dinas and Snowdon, Southwold, Isle of Man, Manx Northern, Ravenglass and Eskdale, Ballymena and Larne, each 3 feet. The following statement (Table XXVII.) comprises the gauges of the principal railway systems in the world :—
∕
The relative advantages of broad gauges and narrow gauges were exhaustively discussed at the Institution of Civil Engineers (in 1873), on the reading of Mr W. T. Thornton’s paper on “ The Relative Advantages of the 5 feet 6 inch Gauge and of the Metre Gauge for the State Railways of India. ” The fallacy pervading the arguments for narrow gauges is that they take the width between the rails as the basic unit of the system ; whereas that is really little more than an incident, and the dimensions of the railway must in point of fact be governed by the size and weight of the vehicles which the traffic requires. Speaking generally, the national gauge of 4 feet 8.) inches is at least as good as any other for the purposes of general traffic. If the width of gauge were still an open question, it might be maintained that a gauge of 5 feet would be rather more convenient in view of the increasing size of the more powerful locomotives.
Rails.—“The experience of the last twenty-five years,” said Mr George Parker Bidder, speaking in 1861, “has shown that one system has been adopted almost universally—the double-headed rails, upon chairs with cross sleepers, a plan which has been materially improved by fishing the joints.” On the continent of Europe and in America, however, engineers have almost universally laid the flat-foot or flange rail ; and in France double-headed rails, keyed in chairs, have been replaced by flange rails. On the Metropolitan and Metropolitan District Railways, on the contrary, the flange rails have been taken up and replaced by double-headed rails in chairs. The case may be briefly stated in the following terms. The double-headed rail system with chairs is the best where supplies of material and labour for maintenance and repair are always ready and available. The single-headed flange rail system is the best when the main thing to attain is simplicity in construction.
Steel rails are now very generally used instead of iron ; and indeed it may be affirmed that but for the introduction of that material for rails and also for the wheel tires of locomotives the railway system would have broken down under the enormous growth of traffic. Rails of wrought-iron on the early railways lasted about twenty-five years ; those of later date have been worn out in from five to ten years and in certain situations in twelve months, mainly owing to increased traffic, heavier loads on the engine-wheels, increased speed, quicker stopping and quicker starting. Steel has come to the rescue both in the engine-wheels and in the rails. Loads of from 15 to 18 tons are now placed with impunity on the single wheels of engines as well as on coupled wheels, while it appears from the investigations of Mr R. Price Williams, a leading authority on permanent way, that a fully proportioned bull-headed rail of steel outlasts fifteen or eighteen iron rails. Steel rails are not merely stronger or harder but, owing to their texture, are worn away only by simple abrasion, whereas iron rails separate out into strands as soon as the outer coating that binds them together is worn off. Mr Alfred A. Langley laid down in 1874 samples of permanent way near Stepney station on the London and Blackwall Railway, where upwards of 300 trains a day passed over a single line of way. The weight of each train was on an average about 150 tons, making a total of about 45,000 tons daily over one line of rails. The rails are both of steel and of iron, weighing 80 lb per lineal yard and keyed in cast-iron chairs on cross rectangular sleepers. The greater number of the wrought-iron rails had to be turned after one year and three-quarters, during which period they had worn down about one-eighth of an inch ; but the necessity for reversing did not arise from the wear itself, but because they gave way in places, either bulging or splitting. The steel rails had worn about one-sixteenth of an inch in the same period. About 27,000,000 tons had passed over the line.
The rails generally, indeed almost universally, used for the way of railways are the double-headed, the bull-headed, and the flange or Vignoles rails (in the United States, Germany, Canada, and Mexico), the double-headed and the bull-headed rails being keyed into cast-iron chairs spiked to sleepers, the flanged being laid upon and fastened direct to the sleepers. The principal advantage of the flange rail is the facility with which it can be attached to the sleeper with fastenings of a simple description. The disadvantages are that it cannot be turned or reversed when the head is Worn, as the double-headed rail may be, and that the rigid attachment of the rail to the sleeper causes a greater degree of disturbance of the way and involves more labour for maintenance than in the case of the double-headed rail. The double-headed rail is made heavier for the same class of traffic than the flange rail ; but it is also stronger and is easily bent to curves, although owing to the mode of attachment to the chairs by wooden keys there is a liability to a slight longitudinal movement of the rails, known as " creeping.” The bull-headed rail possesses the advantages of the doubleheaded rail, except that, like the flange rail, it is not reversible. The bull-headed rail is laid on most of the railway lines of England and Scotland ; the double-headed rail is also in use. In Ireland the bull-headed and the flange rails are used. Double-headed and bull-headed rails in English practice are rolled to a weight of from 82 to 86 lb per yard ; the heads are made from 2½ to 2¾ inches wide ; the webs are from five-eighths to thirteen-sixteenths of an inch in thickness ; and the height of the rail varies from 5¼ to 5⅜ inches. The rails are now made of steel, in bars for the most part 30 feet in length, with the advantage in comparison with shorter lengths of a more solid road, fewer joints, and less cost for maintenance. They are fixed into massive cast-iron chairs, weighing from 31 to 55 lb each, by means of hard wood keys—oak. They are canted inwards in their seats at an angle usually of 1 in 20, the better to resist lateral blows from wheels. The chairs are made of considerable width on the more heavily worked lines— from 7 to 8 inches, against a minimum of 4½ inches on other lines. On some lines the seats of the chairs on which the rails rest are slightly rounded in the direction of the rail ; this forms a compensation for slight deviations from the level in the sleepers, but is mainly useful in preventing indentation of the rails by the concussions to which they are subject—a matter of importance with double-headed rails which are by and by to be reversed. In such cases Mr T. E. Harrison places cushions of hard wood in the chair to support the rails, which are thus effectually protected from indentation ; and, in addition, the trains run more smoothly. The oak keys by which the rails are fastened in the chairs are generally applied at the outer side of the rail, as the jar caused by the lateral percussion of the flanges of wheels is then less than when the key is placed inside ; but on the Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway the key is put at the inner side of the rail, and there is this to be said in favour of the practice, that the rails are kept firmly to gauge and the key is less likely to shift. On some railways contrivances are employed to prevent the keys from shifting or creeping out of their proper position in the chair ; these will be noticed in their places. The rails are laid end to end, one-eighth or three-sixteenths of an inch apart at ordinary
temperatures, to allow for expansion in hot weather. The joints of the rails are united or fished with parallel steel plates lodged within the side channels of the rails and fastened with four bolts and nuts passed through the web of the rails, and, in order that the fish-plates may take a solid and steady bearing, the entering faces of the upper and lower members of the rails are in most instances formed straight and steep,—at an angle of about 2 to 1. For the same purpose the fish-plates are hollow at their inner faces, so as not to be in contact with the vertical members or web of the rails, and are slightly elastic in consequence. Vertical stiffness, also, is of prime importance in fish-plates, which act as beams fixed at the ends and uniformly loaded, being required to sustain the loads of trains passing over the joints. On some lines, accordingly, the fish-plates are made of greater depth, extending downwards along the lower table of the rail, and are even turned under it, whence they are called clip fish-plates. The chairs are laid on transverse timber sleepers, ordinarily cut from Baltic redwood to a scantling of 10 inches wide and 5 deep, and 9 feet in length,— speaking precisely, only 8 feet 11 inches in length, to secure the timber from import duty. They are most commonly submitted to a preserving process by the injection of about 2) gallons of creasote into each sleeper. The chairs are fixed to the sleepers by iron spikes or oak trenails, or both, varying in number from two on the lines of lighter traffic to three or four on lines of heavier traffic. On the London and South-Western Railway and on the South-Eastern Railway a compound fastener is used,—a spike driven into a hollow trenail, after the latter is driven into the sleeper. There are usually eleven cross sleepers to each length of rails of 30 feet, making the average distance between the sleepers about 2 feet 9 inches from centre to centre. It is usual to space them apart more widely in the middle portion of the rail-bars (up to 3 feet) and more closely about the joints, with a view to equalizing the vertical resistance of the rails to rolling loads, by supplying a greater degree of support from the sleepers near the joints.
The standard models of permanent way on the double-headed rail and chair system adopted by Mr John Fowler for the New South Wales railways have been already noticed. The rails are shown in section in figs. 29 and 35. The sleepers are of colonial hard woods, chiefly iron-bark timber. They are laid 2 feet 6 inches apart between centres at the joints of the rails, and 3 feet 1 inch apart elsewhere. The upper and lower tables of the rails are curved or rounded in section to a radius of 5) inches, the height of the rail. The entering or overhanging faces of the rail are inclined at
a slope of about 1 in 2, forming straight and equally inclined bearings to receive the fish-plates. The rails, while in course of manufacture, are tested by selecting a few rails of each day’s make, from which a portion \\ feet in length is cut off and placed on iron supports 3) feet apart, and is subjected to three blows from a weight of 1 ton falling 12 feet each time. The rails are to deflect not less than 6) inches and not more than 7) under this test without showing any signs of fracture. The fish-bolts, as well as the spikes for fastening the chairs to the sleepers, are made of the finest quality of close fibrous iron. Fifty per cent, of the rails were ordered 24 feet in length, 40 per cent. 21, and 10 per cent. 18. The chairs (fig. 30) are 13.) inches long at the sole, 4) wide, and 1) thick at the seat of the rail. Test bars of the metal used for the chairs are cast to a scantling of 2 inches by 1 inch and 3) feet long. They are placed on edge, on supports 3 feet apart, and are required to sustain a dead load of 30 cwt. suspended from the centre of the bar without fracture. The spikes are seven-eighths of an inch in diameter, tapered at the head to
fifteen-sixteenths, with hemispherical or cup-heads forged from the solid bar. The above-described way, as laid in New South Wales, is bedded in ballast consisting of broken stone 12 inches in depth below the sleepers, broken to a gauge of 3 inches, boxed up with broken stone of a smaller size to a gauge of 2 inches for a depth of 8 inches. The total depth of the ballast from the crown of the formation is 22 inches.
The surface of the formation below the ballast is rounded in cross-section, in order to drain off such water as penetrates through the ballast. Grips or furrows are cut and drains laid in where necessary, so that no water is allowed to remain on the line or under the ballast.
The South-Eastern double-headed rail (fig.
31) is keyed into chairs 4) inches wide and 13| long at the sole. They are fixed to the sleeper by two spikes driven into two hollow oak trenails. The sleepers at the joints are laid 2 feet 4 inches apart between centres.
The following are the quantities of material for 1 mile of way, single line :—
tons. cwt. qr. It-.
Steel rails, 82 lb per yard......3521    yards    128    17    3    14
Fish-plates.................. 505    pairs    5    0    1    8
Fish bolts and nuts..........2020    1    2    2    5
Chairs ......................4022    56    11    0    .21
Chair spikes ................8044    3    11    3    8    .
Keys........................4022
Sleepers, creasoted ..........2011
Trenails ....................S044
These quantities are considerably less than those of the Midland Railway (which are stated below), as may naturally be the case for a line chiefly of passenger traffic in comparison with one of heavy goods and mineral traffic. The double-headed rails of the North-Eastern Railway, 82 lb per yard, are bedded on blocks or cushions of oak placed in the bottom of the chairs, the advantages of which have already been noticed.
The type section of way of the Midland Railway is shown in fig. 32. The formation is inclined each way from the centre, making two straight slopes for drainage. The ballast is of strong gravel
broken stone, and ashes or clinker,—chiefly gravel. It covers a width of 26) feet for two lines of way. It is laid to a depth of 16 inches at the middle of the six-foot, and is formed level with the upper sides of the sleepers between the rails in the four-foot, with a medium depth of 16 inches, or 11 inches beneath the sleepers. At the outer sides of the rails the ballast is heaped level with the tops of the chairs, or, more precisely, the tops of the keys, and is sloped down to the formation at each outer side. The upper and lower surfaces of the rail (see fig. 33) are curved to a radius equal to the height of it, and the planks are flat,—adapted for taking up lateral blows and mitigating wear.
The chairs are remarkable for large dimensions, being 7) inches wide and 15) long at the sole, which is 1) inches thick under the rail, and for their weight,
50 lb each. The cost of relaying 1 mile of single way on the Midland system just described, based on contract prices in 1884, amounts to £1572, 8s. 5d. Deducting credit for old material to the amount of £714, 8s. 3d., the net cost of relaying is £858, 0s. 2d. The particulars of quantities, cost, and credit are given in the following statement, prepared by Mr Alfred A. Langley, the engineer of the railway :—
Cost to relay 1 mile of Single Line with SO feet Bull-headed Steel Bails, weighing 85 lb. per yard ; eleven Sleepers to each 30 feet length
Steel rails, 3520 yards at 85 lb=133) tons, at £5 ..........£667    10    0
Chairs, 3872 at 50 lb = 86) tons, at £3 ...................... 259    10    0
Fish-plates (steel clip), 352 pairs at 40 lb = 6) tons, at £8____ 50    0    0
Bolts and nuts, 1408 at 1) lb = 1 ton, at £9, 10s............. 9    10    0
Spikes, 7744, at 1J tb=4) tons, at £7, 10s................... 31    17    6
Trenails (solid oak), 7744, at £2, 10s. per thousand ........ 19    7    2
Keys (oak), 3872, at £4 per thousand...................... 15    9    9
Sleepers (creasoted), 1936, at 4s........................... 387    4    0
Labour, 1760 yards, at Is. 6d............................. 132    0    0
Total cost of laying............................ £1572    8    5
Credits:—
Steel rails, 3520 yards at 80 lb=125j tons, at £3, 15s.......£471    11    3
Chairs, 3872, at 42 lb = 72! tons, at £2 .................... 145    0    0
' Fish-plates (clip), 352 pairs at 35 lb=5! tons, at £3,10s..... 19    5    0
Wrought-iron scrap, 2 tons, at £3 ........................ 6    0    0
Sleepers, 1936, at 9d. each................................ 72 12 0
Total credits ....................................£714 8 3
Net cost of relaying..............................£858 0 2
Not included ·in the above :—Ballast for 1 mile of single line, 4000 cubic yards, at 2s. = £400; ballast for 1 mile of double line, 7000 cubic yards, at 2s. = £700; ballast for a lift of about 3 inches, in relaying 1 mile of single line, 520 cubic yards, at 2s. = £52; engine hire, wages of ballast guards, use of waggons, &c., in relaying 1 mile of single line, £50. The lift of 3 inches signifies the wear and tear of ballast and the quantity required to be replaced.
The standard rail on the London and North-Western Railway is, like that of the Midland, bull-headed, but less high and wider at the head and the foot and thicker in the web. The chairs have the peculiarity of being ribbed horizontally on the inner face against which the oak key is driven, in order to grip the key. The sleepers at the joints are placed 2 feet 3 inches apart between centres. The Great Northern Company’s standard rail contrasts with the two immediately preceding rails in being less high than either, and having a thinner web and a larger head than the others. There are peculiarities in the disposition of the way. The first is that the joints of the rails are supported in a chair directly under each joint, to which the fishes are bolted ; the second is that the two rails forming a line of way break joint with each other, the joints alternating from side to side, and that, as a consequence, all the sleepers are placed equally apart. On this system, it is argued, the ivay is of as nearly uniform strength as it is possible to make it. The keys for fixing the rails are of compressed fir.
The Great Western, the Metropolitan, and the Lancashire and Yorkshire rails are the heaviest of the bull-headed rails noticed in Table XXVIII. (see below),—weighing 86 lb per yard, having comparatively thin webs and great development of head (see fig. 34). In the Great Western chair the inner face of the jaw that holds the key is formed with an indentation, to aid in keeping the key in place,—the key being likely to expand into the vacancy.
In the Metropolitan way the chairs are fastened to the sleepers by two through bolts and nuts to each chair. The rails of the Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway are placed in chairs of great length, 16 j inches ; and, contrary to usual practice, the oak keys for securing the rails in the chairs are fixed on the inner side of the rail, the rail taking its bearing directly upon the jaw of the chair. Thus the lateral strokes of the wheels on the rails are resisted directly by the jaw of the chair, and not through the medium of the key. There are twelve sleepers to each length of rail, averaging 2 feet
6    inches apart between centres, as against the usual number on other lines, eleven per rail-length of 30 feet. The sleepers, of Baltic redwood, are not creasoted nor preserved by any other process, except in one or two places where sand ballast is used.
The leading particulars of standard double-headed and bullheaded rails, with chairs and sleepers, are given in Table XXVIII. (see below).
Specimen standard flange rails are illustrated in figs. 35 and 36 in cross section. Leading particulars of flange rails are given in Table XXIX. below.
In the case of the flange rail of the New South Wales Railway (fig. 35) the inward cant of the rails is provided for by planing out by machinery the beds of the rails at the upper sides of the sleepers to the angle 1 in 20 ; and that the rails may be kept in gauge the beds are notched into the surface by as much as the thickness of the flange of the rail. No holes of any kind, either punched or drilled, are made in the flanges of the rails ; these are fastened to the sleepers by screws and spikes alternately, having projecting heads, by which the flange is clipped and held down. In order to check the tendency to creeping of the rails as well as of the fish-plates, it is intended to flange the fish-plates and to cut a notch at each end of them, in each of which a dog-spike is to be
driven into the sleepers. The Great Northern of Ireland rail is similar to Mr Fowler’s on the New South Wales Railway, but heavier. The Midland Great Western rail (fig. 36) is peculiarly formed, with a web of taper section, being nine-sixteenths of an inch thick at the head, and thickened to 1 inch at the flange. The bridge rail of the Great Western Railway (fig. 37) is laid on the model originally adopted by Mr Brunei. The rails are only 3 inches high, and are aided in resisting vertical stress by the continuous longitudinal sleepers of large scantling, 14 inches wide and
7    deep, on which they are laid, with pine packing 8 inches wide and 1 thick. The rails are laid so as to break joint with the sleepers, which are in lengths of 25 feet, whilst the rails are from 18 to 32 feet in length. The rails are fastened down by fang-bolts,
■which pass through their flanges and the sleeper together. At the joints they are fortified by square iron plates laid under the joints, through which fang-bolts are passed. The longitudinals are connected and kept to gauge by transoms or cross-ties at intervals.
The minimum weight of ordinary flange rails is about 45 lb per lineal yard. If the weight is less than this for main lines the upper bearing surface is objectionably narrow, and it is scarcely high enough above the sleepers. The maximum weight of flange rails is about 80 lb per lineal yard. Flange rails, like headed rails, are laid on transverse sleepers, to which they are fixed, most commonly by means of screws, spikes, or flange bolts and nuts. In all cases it is preferable to effect the fastening of steel rails without piercing them in the flange, as they are materially weakened by such perforations.
In the United States (also very largely in Germany, Canada, and Mexico) the Yignoles rail is universally used for railways, varying in weight from 67 or 70 lb per yard on a few leading lines to 30 lb on narrow-gauge railways. No railroads with any considerable traffic are now laid down with rails of less weight than 60 lb per yard. The Pennsylvania Railroad, laid to a gauge of 4 feet 9 inches, is constructed of flange rails of two sections, one of 60 lb per yard 4 j inches high, the other of 67 lb 4J inches high, in lengths of 30 feet. The fishes or splices are 2 feet in length, held by four bolts and nuts. The outer splice is formed with a horizontal flange or “tongue,” which overhangs the flange of the rail and is spiked to the sleeper. Allowance for expansion when the rails are laid in winter is provided by laying the rails five-sixteenths of an inch apart, endwise ; in summer a space of only.one-sixteenth of an inch in width is allowed. The cross sleepers are 8 inches wide by 7 deep, and are 8^ feet in length ; they are laid so closely that the maximum distance apart between centres does not exceed 2 feet. There are sixteen sleepers for each length of 30 feet, and the sleepers at the joints are laid with a clearance of over 10 inches between them. The rails are fastened by spikes to the sleepers at the inside and the outside. The width for the double line of way at the formation level is 31 feet 4 inches in cuttings; and on embankments the width of the formation is 24 feet 3 inches, sloping from the centre at the rate of 1 in 20. The ballast is laid to a depth of not less than 12 inches under the sleepers, and is filled in to the level of the upper surface of the sleepers. Where stone ballast is used it is broken uniformly to a gauge of 2£ inches in diameter. For double lines of way large stones are placed in the bottom, at the centre, between the lines to provide for drainage ; but the stones are not placed under the ends of the sleepers ; thus water is drained off rapidly.
Metallic Permanent Way.—Metallic permanent way, in which the sleepers are of iron, has been much employed in tropical countries, and is now to some extent adopted in France and in Germany. The oldest and most widely used system of metallic way is that of Mr H, Greaves, who ' in 1846 introduced a spherical or bowl sleeper of cast-iron, having the chair for the rail cast on its summit (see fig.
38). Every second pair of sleepers are connected and held to gauge by transverse tie-bars, which pass through and are bolted to them. The form of the sleeper is strong, it holds well in the ground, the chair is not liable to be detached, the whole bearing surface is directly beneath the road, the ballast is kept dry and elastic, and there is a simple means of packing the sleeper through holes in the top, with a pointed rammer from the surface, so that the sleeper and the rail can be forced upwards without disturbing the general bed of ballast. They may also be lowered by taking out a portion of ballast from the interior. Another system, Mr W. Bridges Adams’s “ suspended girder rail,” is shown in fig. 39. The rail is 7 inches deep, weighing 65 lb per lineal yard, and is suspended by continuous angle-wires, or side wings bolted to it, and bedded in the ballast; and, as the bearing surface on the ballast was approximated to the bearing surface of the rail, a great degree of stability was anticipated. Wrought - iron transverse sleepers were first tried in Belgium in 1862, then in France and in Portugal, and afterwards in Germany. There are various systems, most of which were׳ unsatisfactory, but the Yautherin sleeper, first tried in 1864 on the Lyons railway, has
been successful. It is hollow in section, of the form A truncated, supposing the upper part of the letter to be removed, presenting a flat bearing surface, 3.| inches wide, for a flange rail. It is 8 feet in length and 9 inches wide over the flanges forming the base. It is three-eighths of an inch thick at the centre and is only half that thickness in the wings. The rail is fixed to the sleeper with gibs and cotters. It has been reported that the motion over the Vautlierin sleepers is much easier than that over sleepers of oak, and that in consequence the cost of maintenance is comparatively low. It is stated that amongst a number of rails laid for trial under similar conditions, some of them on wooden sleepers and some of them on Yautherin sleepers, the number of defective rails amounted to only 2^ per cent, of those laid on Yautherin sleepers against 13 per cent, of those laid on wood. It was found that if the Vautherin sleepers were not at least 8 feet in length they failed at the ends, and that even for this length it was expedient to strengthen them at the angles. It was also found that large and hard ballast, or broken stoqes or broken slag, aggravated the tendency to give way. Ballast of ashes produced a similar bad effect, and also caused the sleepers to rust. On the contrary, ballast of gravel, of a marly character, adapted itself admirably to the form of the sleeper. The system of fastening the rails to the sleepers by gibs and cotters has been abandoned in favour of clips and liook-bolts. The Hartwich system of iron way need not be described here, having always given bad results. The Hilf system of iron way consists of two parts,—an iron longitudinal sleeper and a flange rail of steel. It is simple, easily laid and maintained, and economical. The sleeper is in section like the letter E, bevelled at the angles, having an upper flat surface and three flanges downwards. It is 12 inches wide and about 2£ deep ; and it can be rolled to lengths of 30 feet and only one-third of an inch in thickness, and to a weight of 59 lb per yard. The rail is 432־ inches high, with 232־ inches width of table, 340־ width of flange base, and four-tenths of an inch thickness of web. It is rolled in lengths of 30 feet and weighs 5H lb per yard. It is fish-jointed and is fixed to the sleeper with two rows of bolts and nuts at intervals of from 30 to 40 inches. The gauge is preserved by means of 1-inch tie-rods, screwed at both ends with nuts. One tie-rod is sufficient for each length of rail. The combined rail and sleeper, placed on supports 54 inches apart, can carry 18 tons at their middle, without impairing their elastic strength.
Locomotive Power.
Locomotives may broadly be reduced to two classes, according to the situation of the working cylinders. In the first class these are within the framing, under the boiler, with the main driving axle cranked at two points to receive the power from the two cylinders ; in the second class they are outside the framing, and connected, not to the axle, which is straight, but to crank-pins fixed between the spokes of the wheels, in connexion with the nave. From these distinguishing features the two types of engines are known respectively as “ inside cylinder locomotives” and “outside cylinder locomotives.” In the latter the general contour of the cylinders is usually visible at the fore-end of the machine. The tenders have six or four wheels, according to the taste of the designer, and they are supplied with powerful brakes, worked by screws, with blocks of wood placed against each wheel. A water-tank forms the upper part of the tender, namely, the two sides and the back, usually in the form of a horse-shoe, holding from 1000 to 3000 gallons ; and in the hollow of the shoe the fuel is deposited, of which a full charge may weigh from 30 cwt. to 3^ tons. The engine and the tender are sustained on springs placed over the axle-bearings. Again, there is the general classification of locomotives into passenger engines and goods and mineral engines. As the power of the engine is brought into action through the grip of the driving wheels upon the rails, it is necessary, for the exertion of maximum power in goods engines, to make two or more pairs of the wheels of one ·size, and transmit the driving force from the central pair of wheels to the front and back pairs by means of coupling-rods attached to crank-pins at the naves of the wheels. Such engines are called “six-coupled,” and for them the most convenient combination is with inside cylinders. When the cylinders are outside it is usual to couple only the hind pair of wheels to the driving wheels, making a “ four-coupled ” engine, the leading or front wheels being of smaller diameter than the driving-wheels, and so leaving room for the convenient placement of the cylinders. The six-coupled engine can take the heaviest train on a good straight railway,—that is, one free for the most part from curves ; but four-coupled engines work more economically on lines with frequent curves, and may be made so as to take, in average practice, as great a load as six-coupled engines. Passenger locomotives have usually been constructed with a single pair of driving-wheels, for free running at high speeds; but as traffic became heavier four-coupled-wheel passenger engines came into vogue : and express trains are · now for the most part worked with four-coupled engines. In recent years the forepart of engines has in many cases been placed on a four-wheeled truck connected
by a central bolt or pivot to the frame of the engine, so that the fore-wheels can swing to the curves of the line. On the Metropolitan, Metropolitan District, and North London Railways entirely, and on many large railway systems partially, where sharp curves are frequent, bogie-engines are employed, and with great advantage in facilitating traction. Another device for the same purpose is the use of radial axles,—that is, axles either at the forepart or the back of the engine, which by their axle-boxes slide laterally between circularly formed guides on entering and on leaving curved parts of the way, and so maintain a radial position at right angles to the line of rails.
American practice, many years since, arrived at two leading types of locomotive for passenger and for goods traffic. The passenger locomotive has eight wheels, of which four in front are framed in a bogie, and the four wheels behind are coupled drivers. This is the type to which English practice has been approximating. The tender is carried on eight wheels, disposed under two trucks or bogies, fore and aft. Goods locomotives are made with eight wheels and with ten wheels, of which, in each case, the leading pair of wheels are connected with a swing bolster and radius bar, to conform laterally and radially to curves.
As the speed increases a more than proportional increase in the engine-power is necessary to draw a given train. Thus, if an engine and tender, weighing together 40 tons and exerting a given tractive force, takes, say, forty loaded carriages, weighing 360 tons, at 20 miles per hour on a level, the loads which it could take if it exerted the same tractive power at higher speeds would be only as follows :—
At 20 miles pel- hour, 40 carriages, weighing 360 tons.
,. 30    „    „    30    „    „    200    „
» 40    „    „    21    „    „    144    „
., 50    »    »    15    „    „    106    „
„ 60    „    „    11    „    „    75    „
The influence of gradients also is very important. If an engine and tender, weighing together 40 tons, is capable of drawing a maximum train of, say, forty-two loaded carriages, weighing 420 tons, at 20 miles per hour on a level, it would only draw the following loads at the same speed on the following inclines :—
Level ..........42 carriages, weighing 420 tons.
Incline 1 in 600, 34    „    ,,    340 ,,
,,    ,,    300,    27    ,,    ,,    270    ,,
„    „    150,    20    „    „    200    „
,,    ,,    100,    15    ,,    ,,    150    ,,
„    „ 75,12    „    „    120 „
,,    ,,    50,    9    „    ,,    90    ,,
»    „    40,    6    „    „    65    „
,,    ,,    30,    5    ,,    ,,    45    ,,
>,    ,.    20,    3    „    „    24    „
„    ,,    10,    nil    ,,    ,,    nil    „
This is the reason why the older railways were made nearly level at an enormous cost,—the elder Stephenson’s policy being to incur a large expenditure in construction in order to avoid otherwise heavy inclines and heavy expenses. The ruling gradient of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway was fixed at 1 in 900, excepting, of course, the inevitable inclines at Rainhill summit, for working which special provision was made ; that of the next great line, the London and Birmingham, was fixed at 1 in 330 ; on the Great Western Railway, one of the earliest made lines, the ruling inclination is 1 in 1320 for the greater part of the way. Locke, as already explained, initiated the system of cheaply constructed railways, as the facilities for increasing the power of locomotives became better understood ; he constructed lines with long steep gradients, some of them 1 in 70, 1 in 75, 1 in 80. The Great Northern Railway, of comparatively recent origin, was constructed on a ruling gradient of 1 in 200 ; and, in general, the more recently made lines have the steepest gradients. Steep railways are generally also lines of frequent curves, which is another cause of loss of locomotive power. Moreover, the ruling speeds, as they may be called, have in the course of years increased. Thus in every way more powerful
engines are now needed than in the early days of railways.
The fundamental characteristics of English practice are fairly
represented by a few types of locomotives. Take first an express passenger locomotive, which stands on a wheel base—the distance apart of the centres of the extreme axles—of 15 feet 4 inches. The cylinders are inside and are 16 inches in diameter, with a slide of 22 inches. The driving-wheels are 7 feet in diameter. The firegrate has an area of 18 square feet, and the heating surface of the fire-box and flue-tubes taken together is 1339 square feet. The total weight of the engine in working order is 28 tons 6 cwt., of which nearly 12 tons are driving weight,—the weight at the driving-wheels. The tender stands on three pairs of wheels and weighs about 16 tons, with, in addition, 1780 gallons or 8 tons of water when filled, and 3 tons of coal.
The “ Lady of the Lake ” is an express passenger locomotive, one of a class which was designed by Mr John Ramsbottom with special regard to the running of express trains on the northern division of the London and North-Western Railway. The cylinders are “outside”; they are 16 inches in diameter, with 24 inches of stroke, and the driving-wheels are 7 feet 7 inches in diameter. The fire-grate has an area of 15 square feet, and there is over 1000 square feet of heating surface. The engine weighs 27 tons in working order and the tender 17½, together 44½ tons. The tender is fitted with Mr Ramsbottom’s apparatus for picking up feed-water whilst running : a scoop is let down from the bottom of the tender and dips into water contained in a long open trough, laid between the rails, from which it is scooped up into the tanks. The minimum speed at which this operation can be effected is 22 miles per hour. By the aid of the water-lifter this express engine has been enabled to run the whole distance from Holyhead to London—264 miles— in one continuous run, at an average speed of 42 miles per hour, taking a train of eight or nine carriages, and consuming 27 lb of coal as fuel per mile run.
An express passenger locomotive having 18-inch cylinders and four-coupled driving-wheels, 7 feet in diameter, with a four-wheel bogie in front under the smoke - box, was designed by Mr T. W. Johnson for the traffic of the Midland Railway. The engine stands on eight wheels, forming a base 21½ feet long. It weighs about 42 tons in working order, and with the tender, including coal and water, about 68 tons. The average load taken by engines of this class is fourteen carriages at the time-bill speed of 50 miles per hour, over gradients of from 1 in 120 to 1 in 130, with a consumption of 28 lb of coal per mile run. The engine can take as a maximum load seventeen carriages between Manchester and Derby, over ruling gradients of 1 in 90 and 1 in 100 for 10 miles, at a speed up the inclines of 35 miles per hour, and on levels and falling gradients at 50 miles per hour. The carriages weigh, With passengers, 11 tons each, making up a train of the gross weight of 187 tons.
The express passenger engines on the Great Northern Railway (fig. 40), designed by Mr Patrick Stirling, have outside cylinders, 18
inches in diameter, and a single pair of 8-feet driving-wheels. It is one of the most recent developments of the single-wheel engine. It is placed on eight wheels, of which the first four are framed in a bogie, or truck, pivoted on a centre under the smoke-box. The cylinders are placed outside, and between the wheels of the bogie at each side. They are 18 inches in diameter, with a stroke of 28 inches,—dimensions which, taken together, exceed in magnitude those of any other engine for English passenger-traffic. The driving-wheels are 8 feet 1 inch in diameter and the bogie-wheels 3 feet 11 inches. The engine weighs 38 tons in working order, the distribution of the weight being as follows :—
Leading bogie-wheels    7 tons
Hind „    „    15 tons    8    „
Driving-wheels..............................15    ,,
Hind wheels.............................8    „
Total weight in working order ..........38    „
The pivot of the bogie is 6 inches nearer the hind than the front axle,—these being 6½ feet apart. By this disposition the bogie appears to lead better than if the pivot were, as usual, equidistant between the axles. The working pressure in the boiler is 140 lb per square inch. There are 217 brass flue-tubes, 1 9/16 inches in diameter, presenting a heating surface for evaporation of upwards of 1000 square feet. There is in all 1165 square feet of surface, and there is 17'6 square feet of grate surface. Mr Stirling, on the question of single-wheel versus coupled wheels for passenger locomotives, states that he constructed two classes of engines,—one class with four 6½-feet wheels coupled, the other with a single pair of 7-feet driving-wheels. The boilers of the two classes were alike; also the cylinders, which were 17 inches in diameter, with 24 inches of stroke. The pressure in the boilers was 140 lb. With like trains the single-wheel engine had the better of it ; in fact, it generally beat the coupled engine in time, running from King’s Cross to Potter’s Bar, a distance of nearly 13 miles, nearly all uphill, the gradients varying from 1 in 105 for 2 miles to 1 in 200. Engines of the class of the 8-feet-wheel engine travel between King’s Cross and Leeds or York. The steepest gradients on the route are met with on leaving Leeds, ascending 1 in 50, besides the gradient 1 in 105 leaving King’s Cross. Trains of from sixteen to twenty-two carriages are taken from King’s Cross station with ease ; and on several occasions twenty-eight carriages have been taken, and time has been kept. On one occasion a distance of 15 miles in
twelve minutes was accomplished with a train of sixteen carriages, making a speed of 75 miles j>er hour. The engine has taken a train of thirty-three carriages full of passengers from Doncaster to Scarborough and back at an average speed of 45 miles per hour.
It is capable of moving a gross weight, including engine, tender, and train, of 356 tons on a level at a speed of 45 miles per hour. The average results of the regular performance of seven engines of this class between Doncaster, Peterborough, and London for the third quarter of 1884 show that a train of twelve six-wheeled carriages weighing 13 tons each was taken at a speed of from 50 to 53 miles per hour, for a consumption of 25¿ lb of coal per mile run and five pints of oil per 100 miles run.
Four-coupled locomotives, having the cylinders inside, and four wheels coupled “in front,” with a pair of hind or trailing wheels, are known as “mixed engines,”—that is to say, engines adapted for either passenger traffic or goods traffic,—a generally useful type. In one example the cylinders are 16 inches in diameter, with a stroke of 22 inches ; the coupled wheels are 5 feet in diameter. The weight of the engine is 244 tons, of which 20 tons are driving weight.
The next engine to be noticed is a generally useful engine, four-coupled “behind,” for passenger traffic, such, for instance, as that with inclined fire-grate and sloping fire-box designed by Mr J. J. Cudworth for service on the South-Eastern Railway. Chi a wheelbase of 15 feet the weight of the engine—30£ tons—is so distributed that 10| tons fall at each pair of driving-wheels and 94 tons at the leading wheels. The cylinders are inside, 16 inches in diameter, with 24 inches of stroke and 6-feet driving-wheels.
Another express passenger locomotive, having inside cylinders and four-coupled wheels behind, for service on the London and North-Western Railway, has cylinders 17 inches in diameter, with 24 inches of stroke, and 6 feet 7 inch driving wheels. The engine weighs 29| tons, of which 11 are at the middle wheels, 8f at the hind wheels, and 94 at the front; thus the driving weight amounts to two-thirds of the total weight. This engine can move a gross weight of 293 tons, comprising engine, tender, and train, on a level at a speed of 45 miles per hour, with a working pressure of 120 lb per square inch in the boiler. With trains averaging ten carriages the consumption of coal is 26| lb per mile run.
A tank locomotive is an engine which carries its supply of fuel and water with it on its own frame, dispensing with the tender. Such engines are mticli used for short traffic, as well as for shunting and marshalling trains.
The four-coupled tank engine (fig. 41) used for the passenger
traffic of the Metropolitan Railway has four wheels coupled behind and a bogie in front. This engine weighs in working order 45£ tons, of which about 35 tons are utilized as driving weight, making 17| tons for one pair of wheels,—about the greatest load on one pair of wheels anywhere. The regular duty of this engine is to take a train of six carriages capable of holding in all 432 passengers, and weighing in themselves 13 tons each, at an average speed, including stoppages, of 18 miles per hour, consuming 37 lb of Welsh coal per train mile run. Whilst passing through the tunnels or covered ways the exhaust steam from the engine is condensed in large tanks carried on the engine, filled with cold water. The quantity of condensing water consumed is 900 gallons for half the journey, or every 6¿ miles ; it is raised to 200° Fahr. temperature.
The eight-wheeled tank engine (fig. 42) has been designed by Mr
T. W. Worsdell to work the heavy suburban metropolitan traffic of the Great Eastern Railway,—the ordinary trains in this service being composed of fifteen or twenty close-coupled carriages, taken over steep gradients and sharp curves. For this purpose the fore and
hind axles are radially mounted, as before explained, to take the curves with facility, the engine running either end first. The engine weighs 52 tons in working order, and of these 30 tons are driving weight placed on the two pairs of coupled driving-wheels. With large cylinders 18 inches in diameter, and driving-wheels only 5 feet 4 inches in diameter, the engine is adapted for starting promptly, which it is required to do in order to keep time between closely placed stations. Every stop is made by the Westinghouse brake, with which the engine is fitted.
Locomotives for drawing heavy goods trains, though not heavier than the most powerful passenger locomotives, can take goods trains of great weight. Six-coupled goods engines, with 17-inch cylinders and driving-wheels 5 feet in diameter, weighing 32 tons in working order, can take a train weighing 360 tons on a level at a speed of 25 miles per hour, consuming from 40 to 45 lb of coal per mile run with trains. The Fairlie engine (fig. 43) is placed on
two bogies or swivelling trucks, the foremost of which carries the cylinders and propelling gear and the hindmost the tank and coal-boxes.
The longest distance run without stopping, combined with the' highest speed, is performed on the Great Northern Railway, between ! Grantham and King’s Cross, 105J miles, in 1 hour 58 minutes, at the rate of 53£ miles per hour. The Great Western Company run from Paddington to Swindon—77£ miles—in 1 hour 27 minutes, being at the rate of 53¿ miles per hour. On the London and North-Western Railway the distance—77| miles—from Willesden to Rugby is run in 1 hour 28 minutes, at the rate of 52f miles per hour. The average rate of express and mail passenger trains on this line is 40 miles per hour or more. Parliamentary trains, calling at all stations, run at an average speed of from 19 to 28 miles per hour. Express goods trains attain a speed of from 20 to 25 miles per hour. The speed of coal trains is limited, as far as possible, to 15 miles per hour.
The coal trains on the London and North-Western, Midland, and Great Northern Railways generally consist of from thirty to thirty-five waggons, weighing from 5 to 54 tons each, and carrying a load of 8 tons of coal. At this rate the total load of coal for thirty-five waggons weighs 280 tons, and, adding the weight of the brake-van at the end of the train, 10 tons 17 cwt., the maximum gross weight of train is 483 tons 7 cwt., as on the Great Northern Railway. This train is taken by a goods engine with six-coupled wheels 54 feet in diameter, having two steam cylinders 174 inches in diameter, with a stroke of 26 inches, and a pressure of 140 lb per square inch in the boiler. The locomotive weighs in working order 36 tons 18 cwt., and the tender with fuel and water 30 tons 17 cwt., making together 67 tons 15 cwt. for the locomotive and tender. The gross weights are as follows:—
Tons, cwts
Train, thirty-five vehicles (waggons, load, and brake-van). .4S3 7
Engine and tender, in full working order.................. 67 15
Engine, tender, and train ................................551 2
These large coal trains are taken at a speed of IS miles per hour, on ascending inclines of 1 in 178 at 10 miles per hour. The consumption of coal as fuel in the engine is at the rate of 45 lb per mile run, including the coal consumed in getting up steam. Mr Patrick Stirling, the locomotive engineer of the Great Northern Railway, has also designed and constructed still more powerful engines, having six-coupled 5-feet wheels, with cylinders 19 inches in diameter and of 28 inches stroke. These engines are capable of taking a train of forty-nine loaded coal-waggons, weighing with brake-van 672j tons. Including the weight of the engine and tender the total gross load is, say, 740 tons, taken with a consumption of 50 lb of coal per mile run. This is probably the most extraordinary example of a dead pull on an ascending incline of 1 in 178. It is equivalent to a gross weight of 1816 tons on a level. It was found that this train was too long for some of the sidings, besides fouling both the level crossings in the city of Lincoln; hence the train was reduced in number to forty-five waggons. Six-coupled goods-engines of the usual proportions, working at full power, exert a tractive force of from 5 to 6 tons in the direction of the rails, equal to the movement of a gross weight of engine, tender, and train of from 1240 to 1500 tons on a level straight line at a speed of 15 miles per hour, or to from 386 to 463 tons on a level
straight line at a speed of 60 miles per hour. A tractive force of 10 or 12 lb is capable of drawing 1 ton on a level at 10 miles per hour. At 60 miles per hour the required tractive force is about 45 lb for 1 ton of gross weight.
Carriages and Waggons.
is The common varieties of vehicle employed in railway traffic are as follows :—(1) Passenger-train stock : first-class carriage, second-class carriage, third-class carriage, composite carriage, luggage brake-van, horse-box, carriage-truck. To these may be added the mail - carriage or travelling post-office. (2) Goods-train stock: platform-waggon, open or box waggon, high-sided round-end waggon, covered goods - waggon, cattle - waggon, sheep - waggon, coal-waggon, coke-waggon, brake-van. Besides these there are other waggons specially designed for special traffic, as gunpowder, salt, and lime, also ballast-waggons, for the private use of the engineer’s department. Carriages are usually made of the same external length, width, and height. The under works of the stock may thus be identical in construction, and an economical uniformity of working and wearing parts is secured. Uniformity of waggons is still more important than in the case of carnages, as their total number and cost are much greater, and the supervision with which they are favoured is less minute ; besides, the cost of maintenance is less than where many varieties of waggon exist on the same line. · But, whatever may be the upper works, the under works of the whole of the waggon stock should be entirely uniform. One of the greatest evils of railway engineering has been want of uniformity in stock, partly due to different companies not arranging to have stock suitable for joint use on each other’s lines and partly to inevitable changes of plan to meet the growing wants of traffic. Another source of mischief was the separation of the duties of engine and of carriage and waggon superintendence. The carriage superintendent, aiming at the utmost economy of maintenance in his department, continually added to the quantity and weight of material employed in the construction of the carrying stock, as the remedy for the observed failure of weak parts ; and thus the stock, particularly waggons, was increased in strength rather by adding to the mass of matter than by studying to throw the same weight of timber and iron into superior combinations. Meantime the heavy trains, handed over to the locomotive department, led to the construction of heavier and more powerful locomotives, when the maximum was quickly reached, and strongly evinced by the damage done to the permanent way. It was found, moreover, that the older carriages suffered most in cases of collision ; hence there was an additional inducement to add to the size and weight of carriages. But this line of development has been mainly determined by the demands of the public for greater convenience, speed, and safety, and from the growth of traffic, involving greater length and weight of trains.
The early first-class carriages weighed 3£ tons, the bodies or upper parts being 15 feet long, 6| feet wide, and 4 feet 9 inches high, divided into three compartments, to hold six passengers each, or eighteen in all. They now weigh from 8 to 13 tons each, and are from 20 to 30 feet in length and from 8 to 8^ feet wide. Carriages have until recent years been placed almost all on four wheels ; but six wheels on three axles are now generally in use. A modern first-class carriage, 28 to 30 feet long with four compartments, gives 7 to 7i feet of total length for each compartment, as against 5 feet in the early carriages. Second and third class carriages, in length from 28 to 31 feet, are divided into five compartments, each from 5 feet 7 inches to 6 feet 2 inches long. Saloon carriages are occasionally used, so called because two or more of the ordinary compartments are merged in one. Second-class carriages originally were destitute of cushioning, hard and square, on the nearly obsolete policy of making them uncomfortable in the hope of inducing passengers to travel first class. The London, Brighton, and South Coast Railway Company in 1857-58 were the first to supply comfortably padded seats in their second-class carriages, and the receipts of that company were in 1858 materially augmented in consequence. Third-class carriages have been improved, under the stimulating example of the Midland Railway Company, who abandoned their second-class carriages, and raised their third-class stock to an equality with the second-class vehicles of other lines. But there are yet lines of railway on which the third-class carriages are little better than obsolete first and second class carriages converted into third-class.
Passenger luggage brake-vans are made open (for the most part) inside for passengers’ luggage. They are fitted with a dog-box or small enclosure from side to side with doors at both ends, and with projecting sides, glazed, to accommodate the guard and afford a viewr of the train from end to end. A pair of doors are placed in each side for luggage. In some designs a separate compartment is partitioned off for the guard, in other cases a compartment of a passenger carriage is allotted for luggage and for the guard. The luggage van is fitted with a powerful brake; it should be fitted with three pairs of wheels. Horse-boxes are constructed to carry three horses.
The long double-bogie passenger-car universally in use in the United States, originally introduced by Ross "VVinans on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, is distinguished essentially from the carriages on British railways by the longitudinal passage in the centre of the body, reaching from end to end of the car, with seats at each side, and admitting of the free passage of the conductor throughout the train. The absence of doors at the sides permits of the enlargement of the body laterally. These cars are also distinguished by the use of two four-wheeled bogies or trucks on which the body is carried, and to which it is pivoted, allowing the car to pass with facility over quick curves. There is generally but one class of travellers; yet for the long journeys Pullman and other sleeping cars have come into use, at extra fares. From the Atlantic cities to the West there is a special “immigrant” class, as also over the Pacific railroads; and between the chief Western cities and the seaboard of late years a second-class system has been begun: passengers are usually carried in smoking cars at rates but little lower than first-class fares, which on these lines are about Id. per mile. Refreshment cars are also attached to trains. Ordinary passenger cars are 9| to 10 feet wide and 44$ in length of body, or 49 feet over the extreme platforms. They are about 7$ feet high at the sides, inside the body, and nearly 10 feet high at the centre. The car is entered by steps at the ends. The middle passage is about 2 feet vdde. On each side there are fourteen seats, placed transversely, each 38 inches wide and holding two persons. The backs of the seats, which do not rise more than 34 inches above the floor, are mounted on swivels, by which the seat is made reversible. A window is placed next each seat, having a movable glass and a Venetian blind. The cars are heated by stoves or steam heaters, burning coal, and are lighted by oil-lamps or candles, on some lines by compressed coal-gas. Each car is provided with a water-closet and a supply of iced vr ater, and a vendor of books, papers, and cigars patrols the cars. There is a cord of communication with the engine-driver. The car, complete, weighs from 17 to 20 tons, and sleeping cars about one-half more.
The form of goods truck generally used for some years after the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway in 1829 was simply a platform about 10 feet long, on four wheels, with sides varying from 4 to 10 inches in height, weighing from 2£ to 3| tons. Many such waggons were employed for transporting heavy rough goods of 2 tons weight. The general unfitness of this style of waggon led to the adoption of portable sides and ends, which consisted of open crib-rails dropped into staples ; and to these was added the costly tarpauling or sheet to cover the goods and bind them down. The waggon thus appointed, 13 or 14 feet in length and weighing about 3£ tons, was fit to carry 4 or 5 tons of ordinary goods. But loose or removable parts of waggons are liable to be lost or get out of order, and are costly to maintain, while a new tarpauling may be spoiled on the first day of using it by injury from projecting angles of goods under cover. Crib-rails and tarpaulings, therefore, have been to some extent superseded by built covered waggons from 14 to 16 feet long and 7\ feet wide, with sliding or hinged doors and roofs, so that with the crane-chairs a bale of goods, however heavy, can be deposited at or moved from any part of the interior of the waggon, and the goods may be pei’fectly enclosed and protected from damage by fire, wind, or rain. Covered waggons weigh from 4 to 6| tons, and they can carry, according to their dimensions, from 6 to 8 tons of goods. The cost of maintenance of ordinary open waggons is said to amount to from 7 to 10 per cent of the first cost, whilst that of covered waggons is said to be only 4 per cent. It may be stated generally that waggons if properly made will carry 60 per cent, more than their own weight of goods, but that ill-designed badly-made waggons will carry no more than their own weight of goods. The great demand for weight in waggons arose, as much as from anything else, from the absence of sprin״-buffers at the ends, which exposed them daily to rude and trying collisions. By and by buffing-springs were introduced at one end of the waggon, the other being left “ dead, ” and at length, cheap and convenient buffers having been devised, springs came to be placed at both ends of new stock. "Waggons, as formerly made, were .in long trains likewise subjected to violent shocks in starting into motion, and therefore the draw-bars also were placed upon springs. Some companies have gone further and placed the guard or side chains upon springs. Thus the waggon has come to be defended by springs at all points, and there is no doubt that the extra cost so incurred has been amply covered by savings on repairs and diminished breakages of goods. Spiral springs for buffing and drawing, made of round or of oval steel, fixed externally to the ends of waggons, have been much employed ; but laminated springs, placed under the floor, are taking their place. Broad-gauge (7-feet gauge) waggons have been constructed sufficiently strong to carry 20 tons of load on six wheels; but they were not generally made to carry more than 10 tons. Even 10 tons is considered in some quarters to be excessive as a maximum waggon-load on the ordinary or 4 feet 8£ inch gauge. On the Midland Railway, for instance, the standard coal - waggon is constructed to carry 8 tons. The
heavier the load for which mineral vehicles are constructed, the greater is the tear and wear of the stock, insomuch that the waggons on that line which stood to their work best were the old 6-ton waggons.
Railway carriages are composed of two distinct parts,—the underframe or substructure, and the body or superstructure. The underframe has to carry the body and to resist the stress of work. It should be on axles placed well apart, and should be firmly framed together, of hard wood, with iron tie-rods, brackets, knees, straps, bolts, and nuts. Powerful laminated springs are lodged Within the frame to take the pull of the train through the central drawbars and to intercept and absorb the thrusts of the buffers at the ends through the buffing-rods. On the Midland Railway four-
Each of these carriages is fitted With a vacuum brake. In the beginning of 1885 there Were 837 bogie carriages at work on the Midland Railway, inclusive of 34 Pullman cars. The bogie cars, in virtue of their ability to swing their bogies to the curves on the line, run more freely than ordinary carriages, which have parallel axles. Six-wheeled carriages are enabled to run the more freely by an allowance of lateral play for the axle-boxes of the middle axle between the axle-guards, whereby the wheels adapt themselves freely to the rails on curves. The Pullman cars in use on the Midland Railway were sent from America. They are of two kinds, —the drawing-room for day service and the sleeping-car. The body of the cars is 51½ feet in length externally and 8 feet 9 inches wide. Inside the body is 8 feet 2 inches wide, and 8 feet 6½ inches high above the floor. The total length, including the gangways at the ends, is 58 feet. Each car is mounted on two four-wheeled bogies. There are seats for twenty-seven persons in the drawingroom car, with lavatories and heating apparatus, and twenty-two beds are made up in each sleeping-car. The cars weigh 21½ tons and their cost is £2700 each.
The carriage stock of the Metropolitan Railway was designed to carry large numbers. The bodies of the carriages are 39½ feet in length and 8½ feet wide outside, running on eight wheels, of which the extreme axles radiate, or are movable laterally to suit the curves of the way. The first-class carriages are divided into six compartments, providing seats for forty-eight passengers. The second and third class carriages have eight compartments, holding altogether eighty passengers in each. These carriages weigh 13 tons each.
The waggon stock of the Midland Railway is of several classes. All the standard goods and mineral waggons, as well as cattle-waggons, are constructed to carry 8 tons. Leading dimensions, weights, and prices are given below in Table XXXI. :—
The covered goods waggons are made with a doorway at each side, 5 feet wide and 5 high, and a sliding door to each doorway. The high-sided waggons are made with a doorway and hinged door in each side, and two trap-doors in the bottom. In the low-sided waggons each side is a door for its whole length. The cattle-waggons are made with doorways in each side, to each of which there are two doors hinged to each doorpost, and a letting-down door hinged to the lower side-rail. All the waggons are fitted with transverse buffing and draw springs.
Lighting of Carriages.—The North London Railway Company, it is believed, were the first to use gas instead of oil for lighting carriage stock. Thirty gas-lights in a train are supplied from two reservoirs or gasholders in the brake-vans, which hold 200 cubic feet of ordinary coal-gas, supplied from the mains,—enough to serve the train for from two hours to two and a half hours. The gas is conducted by pipes over the roofs of the carriages, with a branch
wheeled carriages are (1885) being gradually superseded by sixwheeled and long bogie carriages. Four varieties of bogie carriage and three varieties of six-wheeled carriage are constructed for the service. First-class compartments are constructed to seat six persons, three on each side; third-class compartments seat ten persons, five on each side. A uniform width of 8 feet outside, or 7½ inside, is adopted for all carriages; and, as a rule, first-class compartments are 7¼ feet long between the partitions, and third-class compartments 6 feet long. The roof is 7 feet 4 inches above the floor at the centre, and the clear height of the doorway is 6 feet. The wheels are 3 feet 7½ inches in diameter. Leading particulars of the several kinds of carriage now constructed on the Midland Railway are given in Table XXX. as follows :—
to each compartment. Ordinary coal-gas has also been used on the metropolitan railways. Pintsch’s system of lighting carriages by compressed oil-gas is extensively in use on Continental railways, where it has been in operation for upwτ ards of ten years. In 1876-77 the system was tried successfully on the Metropolitan Railway, when it appeared that 1000 cubic feet of the compressed gas could do the work of 6500 cubic feet of coal-gas, at a cost of scarcely one farthing per burner per hour, against one-third of a penny for coal-gas lamps, and from ½d. to ¾d. for oil-lamps. The gas is distilled from cheap oils, as the waste - products from the manufacture of paraffin, soft lignite, or shale. The gas is pumped from the gasholder into reservoirs, in which it is compressed to about one-tenth of its ordinary volume. From these it is drawn off into a reservoir stowed under each carriage at a pressure of six atmospheres, or 90 lb per square inch. The Pintsch system is in use on railways in England and Scotland on nearly 3000 vehicles, and is being extended to other stock ; the number of vehicles thus lighted in all the railways of Europe is about 18,000. Besides, the system is employed for the head-lights of locomotives.
Intercommunication signals for railway trains are provided between driver and guard, driver and passengers, or passengers and guard. Electric means of communication have been proposed and tried, but mechanical appliances are most commonly employed. There is the ordinary guard’s cord, extending along the train outside, placed so as to be accessible from the window ; then there are the same cord, with an attachment coming inside the window, the English cord, connected with a bell in the driving cab, a line inside the carriage connected with the steam-whistle, and so on. The acoustic signals appear to belong to the last type ; but none of these systems is comparable with the through middle passage of the American cars already noticed.
Continuous Brakes.—No department of railway practice has in recent years received closer attention and more minute study than that of continuous brakes,—brakes applied to the several vehicles in a train. With the amount of brake-power that had for many years been supplied to passenger trains—hand-brakes on tenders and guards’ vans—a train running at from 45 to 50 miles per hour on a straight level line could not be pulled up within from 800 to 1200 yards ; and even that inadequate amount of brake-power was in the hands of several men. It was clear that the problem of arresting a train in the shortest distance could only be solved by bringing a power to bear on every part of the train in the shortest possible time. But the difficulty consisted in establishing continuity of action, so that the engine-driver or the guard should be enabled to apply the brake-blocks on a series of vehicles in one operation. Mechanical means were first tried, in the systems of Fay and Newall, in which the brakes are worked by a continuous rod passed under the vehicles. These systems were found to be available only on sections of not more than four or five vehicles, and were not worked by the driver but by the guard. In September 1858 a circular was issued by the Board of Trade to the railway companies, calling attention to the advantages to be derived from having their trains controlled by a sufficient amount of brake-power. Subsequently many inventions were tried,—brakes worked by fluid pressure, others worked by chains ; but no practical solution of the problem appears to have been arrived at until Mr Westinghouse of Pittsburgh, U.S.A., invented a really continuous brake worked by compressed air, which was quickly adopted in the United States, and was tried a few years later on several railways in England. It is still (1885) employed exclusively on the Metropolitan District Railway.
Although the Westinghouse brake was greatly in advance of previously existing systems and answered ordinary requirements
remarkably well, it became evident that for the worst types of accidents something more was wanted. The brake as first produced was non-automatic, being worked from the engine only, not by the guard. And, since the power had to travel from the engine along the whole length of the train, there was a loss of valuable seconds of time whilst the brake-blocks were being applied. Mr Westing-house therefore designed a system by which each vehicle was supplied with a complete brake apparatus, carrying its own store of power in the form of an auxiliary reservoir of compressed air, in addition to the brake cylinder already there. By the action of the “triple valve ”—a later introduction—which is fitted to each smaller reservoir on the branch by which it is connected to the main or brake-pipe, the brakes can be instantly applied. A store of compressed air is maintained throughout the train in the continuous pipe and auxiliary reservoirs ; and so long as the pressure in these is maintained the brakes are kept off. By a reduction of the pressure in the pipe the triple valve is brought into action, and the compressed air in the reservoir flows into the brake-cylinder and applies the brake. The brake can be at once released by restoring the pressure in the brake-pipe, when the compressed air in the cylinder escapes into the atmosphere. In the event of a train being parted and the brake-pipe severed, the escape of air reduces the pressure in the pipe, and the brakes are instantly self-applied. They have thus become known as “ automatic ” brakes. The compressed air by the agency of which the Westinghouse automatic
brake is worked is stored in a main reservoir on the engine, as well as in the local reservoirs under the carriages, at a pressure of from 70 to 80 lb per square inch. The air is compressed by means of a steam-pump attached to the engine and worked by steam from the boiler. The compressed air is supplied through the brake-pipe, which passes through the whole length of the train to the secondary reservoirs. A brake-cylinder is fixed near each secondary reservoir, and the charge enters the cylinder at the middle of its length between the pistons, which are driven apart, one towards each end of the cylinder, and act, through piston-rods and levers, upon the brake-blocks which are applied to the wheels. The pistons are maintained in their central positions in the brake-cylinder, when out of action, by spiral springs which abut on the ends of the cylinders; and so the brake-blocks are kept clear of the wheels. The general arrangement of the brake-apparatus applied to a carriage is shown in fig. 44; and the reservoir and brake-cylinder, with their connexions to each other and to the main pipe, and the intermediary triple valve in section, are shown on a larger scale in fig. 45. The triple valve, by means of which instant automatic action throughout the train is produced, consists of a piston in a short cylinder, carrying a slide valve,—the piston and the valve moving together. A vehicle out of order can be cut out of the system by turning a tap, and brakes which have been applied by the parting of a train can be released by opening a valve on the cylinder.
In 1874 a royal commission on railway accidents was appointed, and in June 1875 brake trials were made at Newark. On a level road a train, weighing 2086־ tons, running at a speed of 511 miles per hour, and fitted with the Westinghouse automatic pressure-brake—there tested for the first time on an English railway—was brought to a stand in a distance of 825 feet in the course of 18 seconds,—the equivalent distance for an initial speed of 50 miles per hour being 777 feet. In trials on the North-Eastern Kailway
in July 1879, a train, fitted with the Westinghouse brake, weighing 208 tons, and running at a speed of 51 miles per hour, was stopped in a distance of 621 feet in 14f seconds,—the equivalent distance for a speed of 50 miles per hour being 594 feet. In August 1877 the Board of Trade urged the railway companies to united and harmonious action, and stated the requirements which in their opinion were essential in a good continuous brake : it should be— efficient in stopping trains; instantaneous in action and easily applied by engine-drivers or guards ; in case of accident instantaneously self-acting; capable of being put on or taken off with facility, on the engine, tender, and eveiy vehicle of a train ; regu-lai־ly used in daily working; and the materials employed easily maintained and kept in order. That a brake should be instantaneous in action is evident on considering that at a speed of 50 miles per hour a train advances through 73 J feet in a second of time. A striking example of the value of seconds under such circumstances is quoted in the Report, contrasting the working of the Westinghouse compressed-air brake and the Westinghouse vacuum-brake. The rates of speed were nearly the same,—about 52 miles per hour, or 76 feet per second. The train with the former brake ran 825 feet, whilst that with the latter ran 1533 feet. Now, it took 7 i seconds to put on the vacuum-brakes and 1^ seconds to put on the pressure-brakes. The difference, seconds, at 76 feet per second, makes a space of 475 feet traversed by the train before the brake came into action. In consequence of these steps taken by the Board of Trade all the large railway companies have now (1885) adopted continuous brakes, though some of these do not comply with the conditions of the Board of Trade. The principal question is not now that of Automatic rerms non-automatic, but of automatic pressure-brakes verms automatic vacuum-brakes. In the latter, as the name indicates, the work is done by the atmospheric pressure against the pressure of a comparative vacuum. At 31st December 1878 only 21 per cent, of the total carriage stock was fitted with brakes of some form, of which 128־ per cent, were automatic ; whilst at 30th June 1884 of the total carriage stock 76 per cent, was fitted with continuous brakes, of which 58 per cent, were automatic.- It appears that there are in the United Kingdom considerably more Westinghouse automatic brakes in operation than any other single system. The same brake is very largely, used in America and on the Continent, and at the end of 1884 it had been adopted to the extent of upwards of 15,000 sets for locomotives and 78,000 for carriages.
Electricity.
The employment of electricity in the working of railways has already been referred to in the application of block-signalling to the direction of the traffic, in the working of junctions, the protection of stations and sidings, and the repetition of signals.
The first attempt to apply electric power for propulsion on railways was made by Mr R. Davidson, who in September 1842 tried on the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway an electro-magnetic locomotive, running on four wheels and weighing 5 tons. A speed of 4 miles per hour was attained. Electric power was applied in 1881 by Messrs Siemens and Halske of Berlin on an electric railway, the Lichterfelde line, near Berlin ; and since then they have constructed an electric line 14 miles long, from Charlottenburg to the Spandauer Bock, and a short line in Costverloren Park near Amsterdam. They also applied the system to a railway in the mines at Zankerode in Saxony. At the International Electric Exhibition in Paris (1881) an electric line was worked by Messrs Siemens Brothers which carried an average of over 13,000 passengers per week ; and in September 1883 a railway of 3 feet gauge, 6 miles in length, was opened between Portrush and Bushmills in the
north of Ireland. The gradients are very heavy, having a slope of 1 in 35 at many parts. The curves are very quick, following the line of the road. The conductor employed consists of a third rail, weighing 19 lb to the yard, and laid close to the fence. Electricity is transmitted through the conductor, by means of steel brushes, to the Siemens motors by which the car is propelled. The dynamo-machines by which the electricity' is generated are driven by the power of a natural waterfall of 26 feet in the river Bush. Two turbines are driven by the fall of water at a speed of 225 revolutions per minute ; each is capable of yielding 50 liorse-power. The electric car can run on the level at the rate of 12 miles per hour.
Several large metropolitan and other stations are lighted by electricity. At the Waterloo station of the London and South-Western Railway, for example, the new main line suburban passenger station, about If acres in area, has been lighted by the Anglo-American Brush Light system since February 1881, sixteen arc - lamps of 2000 candle - power each being employed. The Windsor line station at the same terminus, about H acres in area, has been lighted by the Edison Company’s system since January 1S83 with 200 glow-lamps of 16 candle-power each. The large goods-yard on the same railway, about 18 acres in extent, at Nine Elms, has been lighted since January 1883 by fourteen arc-lamps of 4000 candle-power each. The lighting of railway trains by electricity' has been successfully effected on the Great Eastern Railway since October 1884. The power is derived from a dynamo-machine driven by' a compact rotary' engine, placed together in a small case on the top of the locomotive, and worked by steam from the boiler. Sixty electric lights are generated, each of them sufficient to light thoroughly' a compartment of a carriage, and supply light for a train of at least twelve vehicles. Trains on other lines also are lighted by electricity.
Accidents.
Accidents on railways arise from three causes,—inattention of servants, defective material either in the works or the rolling stock, and excessive sped. But the adoption of the absolute block system, with the use of interlocked points and signals and continuous brakes, has led to an absolute diminution of the number of accidents, whilst the amount of traffic has been greatly increased. In 1883 the total number of train accidents on railways in the United Kingdom, reported on to the Board of Trade, was 94 on 18,681 miles open, against 241 accidents ten years earlier on 16,082 miles open. The increased efficiency of management is strikingly brought out by Table XXXII.
During the period 1873-1883 there was therefore a material improvement not only' in the character of the way and works but also in that of the rolling stock. Accidents from entering stations at too great a speed have been augmented in number,—a result naturally arising from the greater speeds and volumes of traffic. Ten of these (for 1873 and 1883) were due to want of control of the trains, and seven others to want of continuous brakes. Collisions have been diminished to a marked extent; and nearly all of those in 1883 took place at junctions, stations, and sidings, mostly within fixed signals. Many of these collisions could have been obviated if proper interlocking and block working had been in use, together with continuous brakes on the trains. Of the 94 investigated train accidents 75 took place on the lines of fifteen companies, working in the aggregate 12,850 miles, and having run upwards of 216 millions of miles with trains,—showing that one accident happened for every 171 miles of railway, or for every 3 millions nearly of miles run. One person in every 625 employed in the traffic—locomotive, carnage, engineers’, and stores departments— in 1883 was killed in the sendee. The employes who stand at the extremes of the scale of fatality are guards : of brakesmen and goods-guards 1 in 97 lost their lives, and of passenger-guards only 1 in 5902. Pointsmen and signalmen occupy a medium position in the scale, 1 in 800 losing their lives ; of engine-drivers 1 in 643 was killed, and of firemen 1 in 533. Of persons other than pass
engers or servants of railway companies who suffered in accidents, trespassers, including suicides, as usual form the largest number, —354 killed and 165 injured. Of passengers 125 were killed and 1416 were injured—together, 1541 persons, or 1 in about 444,000 of the total number of passengers in 18S3.
Railway Law.
Parliament soon began to exercise control over railways by' means ’ of standing orders; and in 1832 a passenger duty of |d. per mile 1 for every' four passengers carried was levied on railway companies. ! In 1842 a Government department was instituted whereby the Board of Trade was empowered to appoint inspectors of railways, to postpone the opening of railway's, to disallow byr e-laws, and to institute legal proceedings against companies for infringing the law. The Board of Trade was further empowered to direct companies to make returns of accidents, of traffic, and of tolls levied. The passenger duty was fixed at 5 per cent, of the gross receipts from passengers. In 1846 the Commissioners of Railways, five in number, were appointed, to whom the jurisdiction of the Board of Trade was transferred, but in 1851 it was re-transferred to the Board of Trade. The Railway and Canal Traffic Act, 1854, requires railway companies to provide “ reasonable facilities ” for receiving, forwarding, and delivering their own traffic and the traffic of other companies, and to abstain from “ unreasonable ” preference. It appears to have been of small practical utility until 1873. The Regulation of Railway's Act, 1873, establishes a new tribunal, “The Railway Commissioners,” not more than three in number, one to be of experience in the law and one of experience in railway business. The principal duty of the commissioners is to enforce the observance of the “reasonable facilities ” section of the Act of 1854. The commissioners have power to enjoin the forwarding of through traffic at through rates, the power being set in motion by the companies only. The commissioners are empowered whenever there is a dispute between two companies that can be referred to arbitration to decide such dispute. The Employers’ Liability Act, 1880, provides that where personal injury is caused to a workman by' reason of the negligence of any' person in the service of the employer, who has the charge or control of any signal, points, locomotive engine, or train upon a railway', he or his representatives shall have the same right of compensation or remedy against the employer as if the workman had not been in the service of the employer nor engaged in his work. The amount of compensation is not to exceed three years’ earnings of the workman.    (D. K. C.)
Foreign and Continental.
Europe.—A few unimportant tramways were opened in France in 1826-32. In 1833 the Government began a comprehensive system of surveys, and laid down the general plan of railway' development for the whole country; and in 1842 Thiers devised a scheme by' which the state was to furnish half the cost (about £10,000 per mile), while private companies were to lay the lines at their own expense and equip and work them for a term of years. In 1857 six great companies were working their lines with profit; but the state found it necessary (1859) to guarantee them the interest on the additional lines which were needed. By subsequent legislation the construction of local railways on a cheaper scale was encouraged, and in 1875-76 unsuccessful efforts were made by speculators to unite these local lines into systems which should compete with the old companies and break their monopoly7 . Since that date some have been absorbed by7 the great companies ; others have passed into the hands of the state. After more than one scheme for a comprehensive system of state railways had been formed by leading statesmen and then for one reason or another abandoned, in 1884 agreements were made by7 which some 7000 miles of railway were to be constructed in addition to the 17,000 miles then in operation, the money to be supplied by the six great companies and ultimately repaid by the state, which meanwhile guaranteed the shareholders of each company7 a dividend equal to the average of recent years (in no case so low as 7 per cent.). The profitable system of monopoly has not been favourable to the development of enterprise in railway management in France. Scarcely any7 of the so-called express trains run at as high a speed as 40 miles an hour. The time allowed for the despatch of goods is very long. The average rates (078־d. per passenger-mile, 082׳d. per ton-mile) are somewhat higher than those of Germany7 . The long-distance traffic especially has received but little encouragement. On the other hand, many of the technical arrangements of the French lines are excellent. Although the state owns so few railroads, it has reserved extensive rights of regulation, both in matters of business and in engineering ; there is a body of Government engineers organized with almost military precision.
Soon after 1830 plans were laid for a Belgian system to be owned and managed by the state, and work was actively begun in 1833. The Government lines were arranged in the form of a cross, the point of intersection being at Malines. By this means the Government was able to develop the traffic of Belgium itself, and at the same time to secure a large share of the transit trade between Ger-
many and England which had formerly gone via Holland. Having obtained control of the main lines with a length of about 300 miles the Government left the rest to private enterprise. Between 1850 aud 1870 the private lines had increased from less than 200 to 1400 miles and competition between the state and private railways soon became active, and for ten years after 1856 rates were in consequence reduced to the lowest possible point. The state railways, however, had certain advantages : they had been well laid out and economically constructed ; their organization was admirable and the very keenness of private competition was sufficient to guard against serious abuses. Nevertheless about 1870 the Government decided to purchase most of the competing lines, and by 1874 it owned more than half the railways of the country. It now (1885) owns three-quarters ; there is only one large private system which could by any possibility compete, and with this there is a joint-purse agreement. The charges in general have not been raised as a result of the new policy, and they are still the lowest in Europe.
The first lines in Holland were constructed by private companies in 1840-56. In 1860 a state system was begun, which included at one time nearly two-thirds of the mileage of the kingdom. It was not, however, managed by the state directly, but leased to a private company. But the financial results were not satisfactory to either party, and the commission of 1881-82 reported strongly against the arrangement. The absence of connexions or of mutual accommodation between the different systems elicited severe criticism.
. The first German line was opened in 1835. While most of the states were too small to have a comprehensive ·policy, Prussia from the very outset encouraged railway development, giving pecuniary assistance, and in return reserving important rights of state control. About 1848 the Government began to construct railways of its own, at the same time purchasing shares of stock in private companies. After 1870 the same policy, which had been for a time suspended, was again pushed forward in the direction of creating a German imperial system; but the jealousy of the smaller states proved fatal to its success. The Prussian Government, however, began to extend its own system on a large scale. In 1878 it owned only 3000 miles of railroad and managed 2000 more, while 6000 were in the hands of private companies. Now (1885) there are 13,000 miles of state railways and only about 1000 in private hands. The prices paid by the Government were, as a rule, high (in one instance the sellers secured an income of more than 16 per cent.), but the lines are nevertheless managed with reasonable profit to the state. The passenger-train service is prompt and comfortable. The speed attained is greater than elsewhere in Continental Europe, the maximum being about 45 miles. The passenger rates are low, averaging not quite 07־d. per mile for all passengers carried. There are comparatively few accidents. The freight service is rather slow, and the charges are not relatively so low as those for passengers. On the other hand, they have for the most part avoided preferential rates ; something very like a system of equal mileage rates prevails, though not always quite consistently carried out. In addition to this rate there is a fixed terminal or “Grundsatz but it is put, almost purposely, too low, so as not to interfere with the very short-distance traffic. The result is that the mileage rate is relatively too high, and for the long-distance traffic it reaches a very high figure. Down to 1880 this result was evaded by a system of special tariffs for export, import, or transit traffic, but during the last five years a strong effort has been made to do away with them. It has not been altogether successful, owing to the competition of water-routes.
In Austria a tramway line for general traffic was chartered in 1824 ·.and opened in 1828. But until 1838 the Government positively discouraged the introduction of railways. The policy then adopted, however, guaranteed to each railway a monopoly in its own district during the (comparatively short) period for which its charter was to run. At the same time the state made lines of its own on a large scale. The revolution of 1848 led to financial straits ; and in the years following most of the state railways, at least in Austria itself, were sold to private companies for about one-half their real value. But in Hungary the reality of a state railway system was more steadily maintained. The growth of the Austrian system was slow until after the war of 1866 ; then it began to develop rapidly. The railway speculation which ended in the crisis of 1873, being perhaps more recklessly carried on in Austria than anywhere else in the world, resulted in very severe distress. Since 1876 there have been consistent efforts to increase the importance of the state railway system both by the purchase of old lines and the construction of new ones. At present there are in Austria 2000 miles of state-managed railroad, and not quite 6000 managed by private companies; while in Hungary there are 2000 miles of state railroad and 3000 in private hands. The policy of the state management has been to reduce rates, especially for passengers ; but they are still higher than in Germany. In 1883 the average receipt per mile for each passenger was 084־d. ; while the average receipt per ton of freight was 1 · 09d. Per train-mile the receipts were about 9s. ; but the traffic was so light in many parts of the country that the average profit on the investment was only 4f per cent.
The Austrian railways belong to the German Yerein, and are like the German lines in most of their methods and principles of administration. They have carried the system of traffic agreements, even between the state and private companies, into the same detail ; but they have not adopted the system of equal mileage rates in their tariffs ; on the contrary, they have (like Belgium) adopted a sliding scale, diminishing for longer distances. Probably no other country is so situated that it has to deal with such perplexing problems of railway tariff policy as Austria. Nearly all the Austrian railways are of standard gauge ; but the problem of the economical construction and management of local lines has received most careful attention from the authorities ; and the law specially encourages the construction of cheap railways in mountainous districts or for purely local traffic. About fifty such railways were chartered between 1880 and 1883.
The first lines in Switzerland were merely local, and the summer passenger traffic formed a main source of income. It was not until Austria had completed two routes across the Alps and France one that the first Swiss route, the St Gotthard, was projected. It is, however, the greatest work of them all, the main tunnel being over 9j miles in length. In spite of the character of the country, the Swiss railways ai’e nearly all of standard gauge. They are entirely owned by private companies, though many of them have received aid from the cantons. The rates for freight are somewhat high. There are now about 2000 miles in all.
After 1860 the railways of Italy developed rapidly. There were four main systems—the upper Italian, the Roman, the Calabrian, and the southern system (along the Adriatic). Although this last had in many respects the least promising field, it was the most enterprising and the most successful. The other systems had been arranged more in accordance with the old political divisions than in accordance with the wants of trade. In spite of liberal subsidies from the Government they did not prosper. The lines of Calabria (and Sicily) were the most unfortunate ; and the Government in 1870 was compelled to take the railways of this section into its own hands. The gross receipts have been constantly less than the working expenses. In 1873 the Government contracted to purchase the Roman railways for the same general reasons. The financial difficulties were such that the contract was not carried out till 1880-82. Meantime similar contracts, though for very different reasons, had been made for the purchase of the other two systems. But a special commission, which thoroughly studied the question during 1878-81, reported that the Italian Government had better not undertake to work its lines, even though it virtually owned them. Eventually they were leased for a term of sixty years to two main companies, each controlling about 3000 miles of line, with a third, much smaller, in Sicily. The state is to receive about 27^ per cent, of the gross receipts, the companies 62| per cent. ; the remainder is to be divided in a somewhat complicated system of reserve funds. On the whole, the railways of Italy leave much to be desired both in construction and equipment. The rates are reasonable, particularly for local traffic ; but the service is always slow, and often quite inadequate to the wants of trade.
The first railway line in Spain was opened in 1848, and the period of most rapid development was from 1855 to 1865. The Government encouraged railways by most liberal subsidies, which had the effect of bringing forward a number of purely speculative undertakings. The indirect results were bad; and for this, as well as other reasons, the years 1869-75 formed a time of most serious depression. Since then matters have improved greatly, on account both of changes in legislation made about 1870 and of the improvement in the country itself. There are now about 5000 miles of railway. One-fourth of the money spent has been advanced by the Government; and of late years the financial results have been reasonably good. The ratio of working expenses to gross earnings is about 45 per cent. Tire charges for passengers are rather low ; but those for freight are extremely high. The gauge is 5| feet.
The first Portuguese line was constructed by the state in 1853 or 1854. The Government now owns about half the roads of the country,—one system in the north and another in the south, each somewhat less than 200 miles long. The central lines are owned by a company, chartered in 1859, which has been for many years managed by a body of French directors, from whose control it has but recently been freed. The financial results have been far from satisfactory. The railways are built on a 5| feet gauge.
In Denmark and in Norway railway development has been slow. The greater part of the lines are owned and managed by Government. Most of the Norwegian lines are laid on a gauge of 3 h feet. The running is slow and the traffic very light. Sweden possesses something over 4000 miles in all, of which the state owns about one-third. The capital averages less than £7000 per mile,—lower than in almost any other country of the world. The railways are in the hands of a number of local companies, which control on an average hardly 30 miles each.
In Russia a short railway—little more than an experiment—was constructed in the neighbourhood of St Petersburg in 1835-37. The first line of any length was opened in 1851 between St Peters
burg and Moscow. This was built by the state, but afterwards sold to a private company. After the close of the Crimean War railway construction was more rapid. The lines were laid down by the Government surveyors, but were constructed and managed by private companies, receiving, however, much help from the Government. Of the 15,000 miles in operation hardly a tenth part belongs to the state, even including the 700 miles of state railway in Finland. Yet about half the capital employed in railway construction has been furnished by the state. Since 1880 the construction of railways in European Russia has moved slowly. Of greater importance has been the development of the Asiatic lines. The first of these, in the Caucasus, was opened in 1872 to a length of nearly 200 miles. The Trans-Caspian military railway was begun in 1880 ; the connexion between the Caspian and the Black Sea was completed in 1883. The Siberian railway is being pushed forward as rapidly as the finances of the empire will allow. The administration is in most respects modelled upon that adopted by Germany and Austria. The plan of the Russian railways has been dictated by military rather than industrial considerations. The gauge is 5 feet.
Isolated lines were constructed in Turkey in 1860 and 1866. The first general plan for a system of importance dates from 1869, and was modified in 1872. Foreign companies furnished the capital and received a subsidy from the Government. In return they were to make certain annual payments ; but the clauses providing for this were so carelessly drawn that the companies seem to have had an interest in delaying the completion of the work. Some of the lines were lost in the cession of territory which followed the war of 1878. There are now open for traffic about 1000 miles of railway in European Turkey, and 200 more in Asia Minor.
There is a fairly developed system of railways (1000 miles or more) in Roumania, owned by the state ; and there are a few lines in Servia. Arrangements seem to be completed by which through communication in these countries will soon be established on a large scale, if the authorities in Turkey and Bulgaria do not fail in their duty. The Government of Greece is also engaged in extending its railway system, which has hitherto amounted to nothing. (A. T. II.)
America.—In the Dominion of Canada 9113 miles of railway and 6735 of tramway, together 15,848, were open in the end of 1883. The accounts show that the total outlay for construction amounted to about 73 millions sterling, being at the rate of £4610 per mile. The gross earnings for the year 1883 amounted to upwards of 6 millions sterling, of which 723־ per cent, was absorbed as working expenses, leaving £1,693,000 net earnings, which amounted to only 23־ per cent, on the capital cost. The earlier railways were laid to gauges of 5£ and 3£ feet, but the inconveniences of break of gauge with the railways of the United States led to the relaying of all the lines to the standard gauge, except those of Newfoundland and Prince Edward’s Island, which remain on the 3.) feet gauge. The principal system is the Grand Trunk Railway, comprising the original Grand Trunk and the Great Western, which were consolidated in 1882, making a total length of 2358 miles of line. The first section of the system—Portland to Montreal—was opened in 1853, the first line opened in Canada. In June 1884 of the (estimated) 2899 miles of the Canadian Pacific Railway, connecting the Pacific with the Atlantic, 2105 miles were open and in operation.
In Mexico the first railway constructed and opened was the Mexican Railway, between Mexico city and Vera Cruz, 264 miles, with a branch 29 miles, the first section from Vera Cruz to Paso del Macho being opened in 1865. This railway, with one or more others in Mexico, was constructed to the 4 feet 8^ inch gauge, but others, including the Mexican National Railway, 910 miles long, are laid to the 3 feet gauge. The Mexican Central Railroad, 1224 miles long, was completed in 1884.
The Panama Railroad, Colombia, between Aspinwall and Panama, 47£ miles in length, was opened in January 1855. The rails are laid to a gauge of 5 feet. Railways were in progress in 1883-84 in several of the other states of Colombia, all of them to a gauge of 3 feet.
In Guatemala the first line of railway from San José to Esquintla, 13 miles in length, laid to a gauge of 3 feet, was opened in June 1880. A line from Champerico to Ritalhulca, 30 miles long, was opened in December 1883 ; and another from San José to the capital, 69 miles long, is now finished.
In the empire of Brazil the Manâ Railway was the first line opened, early in the decade 1850-60. It is a short line of single way, 11 miles long, between the head of the bay of Rio de Janeiro anti the foot of the serra. It was laid to a gauge of 5£ feet ; but other lines in Brazil are laid to a gauge of 5 feet 3 inches. The empire possessed in January 1884 railways of a total length of 3500 miles open for traffic, besides 1500 miles in course of construction. The state owns nine lines, having 1300 miles open, the principal of which is the Dom Pedro II., intended to connect the eastern and western provinces of the empire.
Chili was one of the first states in South America to initiate the construction of railways. The Copiapo Railway, laid to the 4 feet 8| inch gauge, was opened about 1850 ; and an Act was passed in 1852 authorizing the construction of a line to connect Santiago with Valparaiso, 114 miles distant. In 1855 the first 8 miles were opened for traffic, and in 1863 the line was opened throughout. It was constructed to a gauge of 5| feet. In 1883 the total length of lines open for traffic was 1378 miles.
In Peru a system of railways has been in course of construction 1 since 1852, chiefly at the expense of the state. In 1878 there were open for traffic, or in course of construction, twenty-two lines belonging to the state and to private individuals, 2030 miles in length, representing a cost of about 36 millions sterling.
Africa.—The railways of Lower Egypt have been laid out pri-1 marily to connect Alexandria, Cairo, and Suez, with branches to Mansurali and elsewhere in the Delta. The line first laid out, between Alexandria and Cairo, 130 miles long, was opened in January 1856. The junction line from Bennah to Suez is 101f miles in length ; the total length of railways open for traffic in Egypt at the end of 1883 was 941 miles, laid to the 4 feet 84 inch gauge.
There are three systems of railway at the Cape of Good Hope,— < the Western from Cape Town, the Midland from Port Elizabeth,1  and the Eastern from East London. In January 1884 there were 1213 miles open for traffic.
In the colony of Natal there were at the end of 1883 105 miles of railway open, and 120 were then in course of construction.
In the Island of Mauritius there are two lines of railway laid to the 4 feet 8¿ inch gauge, with two branches, of a total length of 94 miles. The North line, starting from Port Louis, is 31 miles long, and was opened in 1864 ; the Midland line, passing through the centre of the island, is 35 miles long, and was opened in 1865.
Asia.—In 1845 the East Indian and the Great Indian Peninsula Railway Companies were formed. Four years later the Government entered into arrangements with these two companies for the construction of railways in the presidencies of Bengal and Bombay, guaranteeing for ninety-nine years a dividend of from to 5 per cent, upon the estimated cost of these and succeeding railways. They adopted one uniform gauge of 5 feet 6 inches. Down to 1869 this policy of guarantee and uniform gauge was adhered to. But in 1869, under the rule of Lord Lawrence, the Government altered the standard gauge for new lines to one metre, or 3 feet 3§ inches, and used the lightest rails and rolling-stock compatible with the requirements of Indian traffic. There are now five different railway gauges in India, namely, the 5J feet, the 3 feet 3§ inch, the 4 feet, the 2£ feet, and the 2 feet. The first piece of railway opened in India was a section of the Great Indian Peninsula Railway, 20§ miles long, from Bombay to Tannah, in 1853. At the end of March 1884 there were 1288 miles of that railway open for traffic. The East Indian Railway was opened for a length of 38 miles in 1854 ; there are now 1509 miles open. In 1869 this railway was transferred to Government, though it is still worked by the company. Of the Madras Railway 65 miles were opened in 1856 ; there are now 861 open. The first of the imperial state railways was opened (114 miles) in 1873. At the end of March 1884 the number of miles of line open for traffic was as follows (Table XXXIII.):—
The number of passengers carried increased from 24,280,459 in 1874 to 65,098,953 in 1883.
In Ceylon the railways have been constructed by the Govern-ment. The main line, from Colombo to Kandy, 74.1 miles long, was opened for traffic in 1867 ; and the branch to Navalapitiya, 17 miles long, was opened in 1874. The Kalutara Railway, 27| miles long, was finally opened in 1879. There were 164 miles open at the end of 1884, and 16 in course of construction.
The only railway ever laid in China ran along a strip of land, about 9 miles long, between Shanghai and Woosung, opened in 1876. In October 1877 the line was removed and the traffic came to an end in consequence of official jealousy, although the railway was very popular with the natives.
The first railway that was opened in Japan was the Tokio-Yoko-liama line, 18 miles in length, commenced in 1869 and opened for traffic in 1872, laid to a gauge of 3£ feet. At June 1884 there were open for traffic 236 miles of railway.
Australia.—The four leading colonies of Australia have their capitals connected by railways, and each has its own gauge.
The railways of New South Wales are divided into three systems, all of which take their departure from Sydney, the capital,—the northern, the western, and the southern system. The first piece of line, 15 miles in length, was opened in 1855 ; and at the end of 1883 there were 1320 miles open for traffic, and 597 in course of
construction. The lines are laid to a uniform gauge of 4 feet 8J inches.
i Victoria has a uniform gauge of 5 feet 3 inches. The railways all belong to the state. There were 1562 miles of railway open at the end of 1883, besides which 130 were in progress.
i In Queensland a system of light substantial railways has been laid out on the feet gauge, mainly from motives of economy and to moderate the difficulties of carrying the line over the main range to the tableland of the Darling Downs. The first section of the Southern and Western Railway was opened in 1867. At the end of 1883 there were 1038 miles of railway open for traffic, and 454 were in course of construction.
In South Australia a gauge of 5 feet 3 inches was at first adopted. The Adelaide and Port Adelaide Railway, miles long, was opened in 1856, and the Adelaide and Kapunda Railway, connecting the capital with the chief copper mines, 50¿ miles long, was opened in 1857. At the same time railways on a 3J feet gauge were also constructed ; the first of these, between Port Wakefield and Blyth, was partly opened in May 1867. The Port Augusta and Port Darwin Railway, destined to connect the Indian Ocean with the Southern Ocean, will, when completed, be about 2000 miles in length. The colony had 991 miles of railway open for traffic at the end of 1883, with 225 in course of construction. In view of the inconveniences of a break of gauge, the progress of the broader gauge lines was stayed northwards, after the junctions had been effected, and new main lines into the interior are constructed on the 3| feet gauge.
In Western Australia there were only 55 miles of railway open for traffic at the end of 1883 and 68 in course of construction.
At the end of 1883 Tasmania had 167 miles of railway completed, and in 1884 207 miles in course of construction.
New Zealand.—The first railways in New Zealand were constructed in the province of Canterbury: the Lyttelton and Christchurch Railway, connecting the port town with the capital of the province, 6 miles long, was commenced in 1860, and opened in 1867, laid to a gauge of 5 feet 3 inches. The Great Southern Railway, a portion of the trunk line to the south, of the same gauge, was opened, also in 1867, to the river Selwyn, distant 23 miles from Christchurch. A comprehensive system of railways connecting the chief towns of the colony was commenced at the expense of the Government in 1872, for which the 3^ feet gauge was adopted as the standard. The first lines so constructed were the Wellington and Woodville Railway and the Napier and Manawatu Railway. At the end of 1883 there were 469 miles open for traffic in the North Island and 926 in the South Island, besides 91 of private lines, making in all 1486 miles.    (D. K. C.)
United States.
Construction.—The low cost of American railways has been due largely to a close adaptation of the alignment to the natural surface by the use of grades and curves. The importance of saving in materials, labour, and cost has been very much greater than in Europe, because labour and nearly all materials but timber were much costlier, and especially because the interest on money was very much higher,—until about 1875, on the average probably 9 or 10 per cent. The use of the “ truck ” or “bogie ” under locomotives and cars made it possible for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, the first long line in a mountainous country, to be constructed with curves of 600 feet radius, and on temporary lines on the same railway with curves of 300 and 278 feet radius. Curves of 955 and even 716 feet radius are common through difficult country; curves of 573 feet radius occur on some important lines; and 410 to 383 feet radii are not uncommon in mountainous regions. On the United States military railroads in 1864 an immense traffic passed safely over temporary lines with a curve of 50 feet radius. Early experiments as to the real power of the locomotive to surmount gradients led to the adoption of 110 and 116 feet per mile for ascents 17 miles long, and to the successful use on a temporary track over a tunnel (in 1852) of gradients of 1 in 10, over which a locomotive weighing 25 tons hauled regularly one-car trains weighing 53^ tons, including its own weight. A gradient of 1 in 127 miles long, in a mining branch in Colorado is now regularly worked. In the construction proper a noticeable peculiarity has been the free use of open trestle-work of timber, to save both masonry and earth or rock excavation. Some of these timber structures have been of enormous proportions, as the Portage Viaduct (see vol. iv. p. 328) over the Genesee River, 234 feet high and 800 feet long, in 50 feet spans, built in eighteen months (1858), at a cost of only $140,000, and containing 125,000 cubic feet of timber and 80 tons of bolts. Structures of timber exceeding 100 feet in height have been rare, but of all dimensions below that exceedingly common, the usual intent and practice having been to replace them as they became unserviceable with masonry embankments. Although their use has not unfrequently been abused by permitting them to become unsafe from decay, they have in the main been thoroughly solid and substantial. For bridge spans of 30 to 250 feet the wooden “Howe truss” bridge, a type peculiar to America, was early invented and almost universally used where wrought-iron trusses would be now used both in Europe and America. The piers and abutments for such trusses were usually of stone, but not unfrequently of timber also. These wooden trusses are now being rapidly replaced with iron,-the lead-ing types being the Whipple, Post, Fink, and Bollman trusses (see Bridges, vol. iv. p. 322 sq.). The sleepers (in America called ties or cross-ties) are usually of hard wood (white oak), hewn on top and bottom, with the natural surface of the tree on the sides. The usual dimensions are 6 (sometimes 7) inches thick, 8 (sometimes 8| or 9) feet long, and 8 to 10 or even 12 inches face. The usual rule is to place them 2 feet or less apart, and 2640 to 2700 to the mile. The large bearing surface thus afforded has especially favoured the use of the flat-based or Vignoles rail, and it is in exclusive use throughout North and for the most part South America. The rails now most largely rolled weigh from 56 to 65 lb per yard. On the light-traffic lines of the south and west there are still many 50 lb rails, and in the north and east rails of 70, 72, 75, and 80 tb sections are in limited but increasing use. An average for the whole United States would now be somewhat under 60 lb. The close propinquity of the sleepers gives much greater stiffness to the rail than comparative weights alone would indicate, a 60 lb rail being fully equivalent in stiffness and strength to an 80 lb rail supported on chairs 3 feet between centres. The ballast and drainage of American railroads have often been very defective, with the view to effecting a large saving in first cost. Improvements in this as in other respects have taken place in recent years, and many thousand miles are now maintained at a high standard of excellence. Right of way, usually in a continuous strip 100 feet wide (wider where necessary, but never narrower), has been largely given, or purchased at veiy low rates. The widths of road-bed (almost always first graded for a single track) are usually 18 to 20 feet in excavation and 14 feet on embankments, with 1| to 1 slopes. Side slopes of 1 to 1 have been largely used in regions not exposed to frost. Parallel tracks are placed 13 feet between centres.
Railway development in the United States has had to adapt itself to the needs of a new and rapidly growing country, a large part of which was first made available for settlement by railways. Three locomotives were imported from England in 1829, and the first trial in America took place on 8th August 1829 at Honesdale, Pennsylvania. The first railway constructed to be worked by locomotives was the South Carolina Railroad (1828-30), though trials of an experimental locomotive had been made before on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, which continued to be worked by horse power until 1832. The mileage of railway construction about kept pace with that of the United Kingdom until 1850 ; at the beginning of 1885 it amounted to 125,379 miles. The mileage completed amounted to 40 miles at the end of 1830, to 3361 miles in 1841, and to 5206 miles in 1847, of which 1340 miles had been opened within six years. Then there was a sudden and great increase, the yearly additions for seven years being 1056 miles in 1848, 1048 in 1849, 1261 in 1850, 1274 in 1851, 2288 in 1852, 2170 in 1853, 3442 miles in 1854. The Civil War checked railway construction, only 3257 miles being opened during the five years ending with 1865, when the aggregate amounted to 32,996 miles. But during the seven years ending with 1872 the mileage of the country was nearly doubled, the yearly additions being 1403 miles in 1866, 2541 in 1867, 2468 in 1868, 4103 in 1869, 5658 in 1870, 6660 in 1871, 7439 in 1872, a total of 30,272 miles in seven years. At the close of this period of construction there was a mile of railway to every 666 inhabitants. It was followed by great financial disasters and industrial stagnation, and by a period of comparative inactivity in railway extension, only 5217 miles being opened in 1873, and only 14,057 in the five years ending with 1878 (2428 in the last-named year). During the five years ending with 1883 40,000 miles were opened, of which 11,568 fell to 1882. At the end of 1884 the population per mile of railway wr as 458. There was no railway west of the Mississippi until 1853, and then only 38 miles; in 1860 there were 1930 miles (24,990 on the east), and in 1865 3007 miles. (29,988 on the east). Since 1865 46,600 miles have been built west of the Mississippi. About one-half of the population of the United States is in the territory lying north of the Potomac and Ohio and east of the Mississippi, including sixteen States with an aggregate area of 418,495 square miles, 29,000,000 inhabitants, and 55,725 miles of railway. France and Germany together have nearly the same area (416,205 square miles), 83,000,000 inhabitants, and 40,682 miles of railway. The United States has one mile of railway to 75־ square miles of territory and 520 inhabitants, aml Europe 1 mile of railway to 102־ square miles and 2040 inhabitants. The two States of New York and Pennsylvania, whose area is about equal to that of Great Britain, have one mile of railway to 62־ square miles, against one to 59־ in Great Britain ; and Massachusetts and New Jersey, with one-third more area than Belgium (which has more railway in proportion to area than any other European country), have 4 square miles of area per mile of railway, while Belgium has 42־. In the Southern States the railways are much less numerous and have lighter traffic and earnings. The prevailing course of traffic in America is east and west, or rather
to and from the north-eastern Atlantic States north of the Potomac. The eastern “trunk lines,” as they are called, extending from the west to the north-eastern seaports (and also to Canada), have a heavier goods traffic than any other lines of considerable length in the world. The companies owning these lines also own or control in some way extensive systems reaching as far west as Chicago, and in several cases to the Mississippi at St Louis. Two great systems centre on the Pacific coast. Chicago is the chief traffic centre of the interior.
The railways having at first to serve a thinly peopled but rapidly growing country, American engineers devised methods of construction and working which produced a line at very small cost, lacking very many of the appliances considered necessary in Europe, but capable of being extended and developed as the country itself became more settled and prosperous. At first many Unes cost only £2000 per mile, and much better lines are now being built for £3000 per mile or less. Even when fully developed they are still usually very much less costly than European railways. Some of the large systems have cost, on the average, only from £7000 to £3000 per mile. The average reported cost in 1884 of the 125,000 miles of railway in the United States was £11,400 per mile ; but the actual average cost is probably much less.
In the United States coal for fuel and timber for building and other purposes are carried by railway 1500 miles or more from the place of production. Cattle are carried 2000 miles and more, and wheat and other grains worth but half as much per ton, in immense quantities, 1500 to 1800 miles. This is possible only by rates which in most countries would be thought ruinously low. But in recently settled parts of the United States the population are often dependent upon the railway for almost everything they consume ; and almost everything they produce, except their bread and meat, has to be carried by the same means. Thus the traffic per inhabitant is very much larger than in most old countries. Hence too manufactured goods can often be carried 1000 or 1500 miles at a cost very little more than that at the place of manufacture or importation. In one year the five eastern trunk lines received at their western termini (about 450 miles from New York) for transportation eastwards 8,200,000 tons of goods, equal to more than 26,000 tons daily. This has greatly promoted the formation of large railway systems and the construction of branches and extensions by railway companies near unsettled districts. A company with a line 500 miles long is induced to make extensions not only by the profit to be made on the new line, which in a new country may be almost nothing for several years, but also by the profit made by carrying the traffic of the new line over the 500 miles of old railway. Comparing the traffic per inhabitant in the United States, Germany, and Austria-Hungary in 1883, we get (Table XXXIV.)
Thus each American travels three-fifths more and has 3½ times as much goods transportation done for him as the average German.
The railways of America have enjoyed great liberty in fixing their rates, which, however, have been somewhat restricted by new legislation in several States since 1870, notably one limiting the New York Central to 2 cents (1d.) per mile for all classes of passengers. The average rates for goods have been reduced very much since the Civil War and even since 1875. Passenger rates have also been reduced, but not nearly so much. Table XXXV. shows, in pence, the average goods rates per ton on a few important railways :—
From the whole country the averages in 1884 were—rate per mile, 0- 629d. ; per ton of goods, 0∙502d. ; per passenger, 1∙178d. This on the average goods rate from 1880 to 1884 was a reduction of 13 per cent., amounting to more than £13,000,000 on the traffic of 1884. The passenger rates of the above-named railways have been in pence per mile (Table XXXVI.) :—
The classification of passengers is but little developed in America. For local journeys there are usually but one class and one rate of fare ; but on several important lines additional charges are made for certain special kinds of accommodation. Railway “wars” often bring down the through fares to a ridiculously low figure : for instance, the first-class fare for 960 miles, New York to Chicago, has been £2 or less, and the immigrant fare during the spring and summer of 1884 was 4s. The rates on goods are innumerable and are often changed. Table XXXVII. gives examples of the great fluctuations in these rates, the figures being the number of cents per 100 lb of first-class (the highest class) freight :—
The rates which the railways have endeavoured to maintain on this traffic since 1877 have been, with but slight changes, 75 cents for first-class freight, 60 for second, 45 for third, 35 for fourth, and 25 cents for fifth. The highest of these is at the rate of 1∙644 cents per American ton per mile ( = 0∙92d. per English ton per mile) ; the lowest is 0∙548 cent ( = 0- 307d.) The “basis rate” is that on grain and flour from Chicago to New York,—grain, flour, and meats forming about four-fifths of the whole traffic eastwards. Twenty cents ( = 0∙492 cent or 0- 275d. per ton per mile) is considered a remunerative rate. Another “basis rate” is that from Chicago south-west to Kansas City, which governs rates from places about 500 miles from Chicago west and south-west. This rate is usually nearly the same as that from Chicago north-west to St Paul, 400 miles, governing a large amount of traffic in that direction. Between the Missouri river and the Pacific coast is another territory with another basis ; and in the south, rates from the Atlantic ports to inland towns are governed by one general rule, as also those from places in the upper Mississippi valley (like St Louis, Chicago, Cincinnati, and Louisville) to the same or other interior towns of the south. Traffic is facilitated on the longer routes by organizations known as “fast freight lines,” whose cars run over several connecting railways. When first established these lines were independent corporations, owning their cars, collecting the charges for transportation, and paying dividends out of their profits. Nowall but a few are simply co-operative agencies of the several associated railway companies, which contribute cars in certain agreed proportions, and share the expenses of the joint agencies, each company receiving the earnings for the freight passing over its railway precisely as for any through freight.
The laws governing the formation of railway corporations and authorizing railway construction differ in different States, but in most it is open to any association of men with the necessary capital to form a company and construct a railway anywhere. Generally the laws relating to raising and extending capital and the disposition of income are very lax, and under them great abuses have occurred. All but a very small number of the railways have been projected and constructed by private enterprise ; but many companies have received aid from towns, cities, counties, or States, and the Federal Government and the State of Texas (the only State owning the public land within its borders) have subsidized many railways, mostly west of the Mississippi, by immense grants of public lands, in the aggregate amounting to 200,000,000 acres. The' Federal Government also lent its bonds to the amount of £13,000,000 to aid in the construction of a few lines between the Missouri and the Pacific coast. Between 1830 and 1840 several States undertook to construct railways on their own account ; but most of these attempts ended in disaster, and the railways were completed by companies, if completed at all. There remain, however, two State railways, one 138 miles long owned by Georgia, which it leases to a corporation for working, and the other by Massachusetts, mostly in the long Hoosac tunnel. Owing to the pernicious system of raising capital for railway construction from the sale of bonds, secured only by the property bought by the proceeds, before the end of 1874 108 railway companies were insolvent, and interest was unpaid on more than £100,000,000 ($497,807,660) of mortgage bonds which they had issued. Indeed, of the total nominal railway capital of the United States very nearly one-half is represented by bonds. One great company which has paid dividends for many years has £9,500,000 of stock to £20,000,000 of debt. The management of railway companies in the United States is often autocratic to the last degree. When once directors have been elected by the vote of the majority of the shareholders, they take the most important steps without ever consulting the shareholders, and in their annual reports they give only such information as they please, subject to no examination by independent auditors. This state of things naturally leads to grave abuses, to directoral mismanagement and dishonest speculation in bonds and shares. In some cases, however, the authority of the directors is limited by the charter or constitution of the company.
There are very few, if any, lines which have trains whose speed equals that of the fast English trains, the fastest being between
New York and Philadelphia, 90 miles in 112 minutes. The 440 miles from New York to Buffalo are run in 10¾ hours, and the 960 miles from New York to Chicago in 25 hours. A great obstacle to fast running is the original vice of construction with level highway and railway crossings. Only few lines are provided with the block signals and interlocking apparatus required with numerous fast trains ; but the use of continuous air-brakes is general. There has been more success in designing appliances to mitigate the effect of accidents than in inventions for avoiding them altogether. Accidents are very numerous, the casualties being more frequent in proportion to traffic than in the principal European countries. The number of accidents to passengers, however, is insignificant when compared with that of accidents to employés and persons walking over crossing-lines. In 1880 the numbers killed and injured were (Table XXXVIII.):—
This gives one passenger killed for every 43,280,000 miles travelled, and one injured to every 11,375,000. In the United Kingdom there were one passenger killed for every 960,000 miles run by passenger trains, and one injured for every 254,000 miles.
Though American railways have steeper grades and sharper curves than in Europe, the loads carried in freight trains are sometimes exceptionally large : trains of 45 or 50 eight-wheeled cars each loaded with nearly 18 tons are common. The average load on the principal lines has been doubled since 1870, largely by the adoption of heavier and more powerful locomotives and by the better management of trains, and to some extent by a better condition of permanent wτ ay. This has had much to do with the great reduction in the rates charged. The cost of working American railways is usually a larger proportion of the earnings than in Europe. An American railway which spends 60, 66⅔, or 75 per cent, of its earnings for working expenses would in England be called costly to work. The expense per ton per mile on several railways in recent years has been, in cents per ton of 2000 lb (Table XXXIX.) :—
The expense per passenger mile, which is larger than in Europe, since the traffic is nearly all first-class, is shown, in cents, in Table XL.
American railways also contrive to do their work with a very small number of men. In 1880 86,781 miles of railway were worked with a force of 418,957 men, or 4∙7 men per mile, against 367,793 in the United Kingdom on 18,681 miles, or 19∙7 per mile, and 316,570 in Germany, or 143 per mile. The greater thinness of traffic on American lines accounts for but part of this, for the number of train-miles per year per man employed in different countries is 929 in the United States, 350 in the United Kingdom, 476 in Germany, 395 in Austria-Hungary. A better measure of the
work done per man is the number of passenger and ton miles for each man employed (which cannot be given for the United Kingdom) ; this is shown in Table XLI. :—
The principal statistics of the railways of the United States in recent years are sho- wn in Table XLII. :—
(A. M. W.-D. W. D.)
RAIMBACH, Abraham (1776-1843), line-engraver, a Swiss by descent, was born in London in 1776. Educated at Archbishop Tenison’s Library School, he was an apprentice to J. Hall the engraver from 1789 to 1796. For nine years part of his working-time was devoted to the study of drawing in the Royal Academy and to executing occasional engravings for the booksellers, whilst his leisure hours Were employed in painting portraits in miniature. Having formed an intimacy with Sir David Wilkie, Raim-bach in 1812 began to engrave some of that master’s best pictures. The Village Politicians, the Rent-Day, the Cut Finger, Blind-Man’s Buff, the Errand-Boy, Distraining for Rent, the Parish Beadle, and the Spanish Mother and Child raised him in the estimation of connoisseurs, the French especially holding him in great honour. It is said that he never employed any assistants, but executed the whole of his plates With his own hand. At his death, in 1843, he held a gold medal awarded to him for his Village Politicians at the Paris Exhibition of 1814. He was elected corresponding member of the Institute of France in 1835.
RAIMONDI, Marcantonio. See Marcantonio. RAIN. See Meteorology, vol. xvi. pp. 128, 150-4,
180, and Geology, vol. x. p. 267 sq.
RAINBAND. Every transparent substance is perfectly
opaque to some particular kinds of light. A certain shade of orange light is absorbed by the vapour of water, and, when sunlight which has traversed a stratum containing this vapour is decomposed in a spectroscope, the blank caused by the missing rays appears as a black band or group of fine lines. This is called the rainband, because from its intensity the amount of moisture in the atmosphere may be guessed at, and the occurrence of rain predicted with considerable certainty. It has long been known that the spectrum of sunlight shows lines of telluric as well as of solar origin. The former constitute the absorption-spectrum of the atmosphere (see SPECtro-
scoPy); some are produced by the permanent gases, others by aqueous vapour, which is always present, though in variable amount. The absorption-spectrum of water-vapour has been minutely studied and carefully mapped by Janssen and by Cornu. In Angstrom’s table of normal solar spectra there are numerous groups of lines which appeared most conspicuous when the sun was close to the horizon, and many of these are coincident with the absorption-lines of water-vapour. They are found principally in the red and yellow, and the main group is seen a little to the red side of the D line. In small spectroscopes the water-vapour lines appear fused together into a band on the red side of D, or even as a mere widening of that line. There are several variable bands in the spectrum which come to a maximum of intensity when the sun is on the horizon. These are due to absorption by the permanent gases; the one which in a small instrument appears to separate the yellow from the green is frequently mistaken for the water-vapour band, and this is the cause of many incorrect “ rainband predictions.” In 1872 Professor Piazzi Smyth noticed a change in the water-vapour lines before and after a sirocco in Palermo, and the same phenomenon was brought before him very strikingly in France before great rains in 1875 (Edin. Ast. Obs., vol. xiv.), when he named the main group of water-vapour lines the “ rainband.”
The rainband may be observed with any spectroscope, but direct-vision instruments of medium size are most convenient. It is important that the spectroscope should have as great dispersion as possible and good definition, especially at the red end. To make an observation the slit, which must be kept perfectly clean, should be narrowed down until the spectral lines are sharp and clear. The instrument should be carefully focused to get the maximum absorption effect ; but all observers lay stress on noting whether the intensity of the band decreases rapidly or gradually as the altitude is increased. When a dark band is observed at the horizon and at the zenith, heavy rain is almost certain to follow immediately. It is of little importance whether the sky be clear or covered with high clouds at the point of observation ; low clouds or haze make the result untrustworthy by shortening the line of sight, thus reducing the strength of the band and equalizing it in all directions. The utility of the spectroscope in meteorology depends on its power of investigating the hygrometrical conditions of the whole slice of atmosphere looked through, and it affords a means of ascertaining the difference of humidity in different directions. The hygrometer only indicates the state, as regards moisture, of the few yards of air surrounding it. The great difficulty in the way of obtaining accurate results with the rainband spectroscope has been the mental scale of comparison employed by most observers. Although some have found it easy to estimate the intensity of the band from 0 to 20, it is beyond the power of many to describe it in figures even from 0 to 5. Professor Piazzi Smyth noted its strength relatively to that of the dry-air band between the green and yellow. The fixed solar lines E, b, and F have been used as a closer approximation to a scale in instruments not powerful enough to separate the rainband from the D line. This compound line appears to vary from something less intense than E in very dry weather to something considerably darker than F when rain is imminent. Seven degrees can be discerned, and these may be represented by using the sign = to mean “of equal intensity with,” > to mean “darker than,” and < “less dark than,” as, <E,=E, >E<b, = b,>b<F, = F, and >F. When the thin solar lines in the green are seen very distinctly there is less probability of rain falling than when they are indistinct or invisible.
The following table gives an idea of the intensities corresponding to rain-probabilities at Edinburgh.
It appears that the average percentage of fulfilments of predictions of “rain” and “no rain,” made for a period of twelve hours after one observation in the morning, which may be expected in Scotland is about 75. In less variable climates, such as those of the south of Europe and parts of the United States, a much higher degree of accuracy has been attained. The precise strength of rainband which corresponds to the probability of a fall of rain within a definite time depends on the temperature and also on the place of observation ; in every case it must be determined by the observer for himself. Very dark rainbands are found to precede rain in more than 95 per cent, of the cases everywhere ; entire, or almost entire, absence of the band presages a dry day with equal probability. With a spectroscope powerful enough to split 1) a mental numerical scale must be used in default of a suitable micrometer, and by practice the observer will be able to draw up a table for its conversion into probabilities of rain.
The production of an artificial absorption-line the intensity of which could be varied by known degrees suggested itself to more than one observer as the principle for a rainband-micrometer. A wedge of didymium glass comes very near success in this direction, but the absorption-line is awkwardly situated. Professor Cook of Dartmouth College, the leading meteorological spectroscopist in the United States, has constructed a micrometer for a spectroscope of sufficient power to separate the rainband into lines. A silk fibre is fixed to a frame capable of being moved to and fro in the tube of the spectroscope by a micrometer screw7 . When brought into focus the fibre appears as two sharp lines, which become fainter and wτ ider as it is withdrawn. When the lines appear of equal intensity with the most prominent line of the rainband (α of the D group in Janssen’s map) the micrometer is read ; forty shades of intensity may be indicated by it. The unit proposed for graduating such micrometers on a uniform scale is the intensity of the faintest and least refrangible of a group of three lines in the red (w. l. 6207) of the spectrum produced by a 1 centimètre column of the gas given off' by heated lead nitrate (mixture of nitrogen peroxide and oxygen) at 25° C. and 760 mm. The spectroscope when reinforced by this micrometer has been found to indicate with unfailing accuracy the existence in certain parts of the sky of banks of invisible cloud, which become visible when a fall of temperature and other necessary conditions allow the vapour to condense. In settled weather such masses of vapour are not to be found, the micrometer readings being the same in all directions at the same altitude. Sometimes the rainband grows gradually darker for several days before a period of steady and long-continued rain, while sudden violent showers may give very short notice.
The spectroscopic history of a thunderstorm observed on 9th June 1884 by Professor Cook is extremely interesting. During its approach the water-vapour line observed at 10° north of the zenith towards the storm was darker by ten degrees of the scale than that observed 10° south of the zenith, although to the eye the clouds presented exactly the same appearance at both places. On this occasion the strength of the line varied as follows :—
Some relation has been traced between the variations of the rainband and the appearance of aurorae, but this matter is not yet fully investigated.    (H. R. M.)
RAINBOW. See Light, vol. xiv. p. 595 sq.
RAINGAUGE (Pluviometer, Hyetometer, Udometer). The value of the measurement of rainfall (see Meteorology) has long been understood, although it is only within the last hundred years that trustworthy results have been obtained. Marriotte is claimed as the originator of the raingauge in 1677. The simplest form is an open vessel of uniform diameter exposed to the rain, in which the depth of water collected during any interval of time may be measured. In order to reduce evaporation the mouth of the gauge is usually a funnel of the same diameter as the vessel ; and some means, such as an external narrow glass tube graduated in inches and parts to show the height of the water inside, or a float bearing a graduated rod, or, in more delicate forms, a movable scale which may be set by a vernier to the surface of the water, is adopted to facilitate measurement. Raingauges on this plan cannot be very accurate ; their one advantage is that the area of the collecting surface does not require to be known. The disadvantages are that so much water is required to wet the sides of the vessel as to make the instrument read too low when a side tube is used, and the tube is liable to
be broken in frost; when a float and rod are employed, the rod projecting above the funnel catches rain and the resulting reading is too high. Almost all raingauges now used have a circular funnel of known diameter, which conducts the rain-water to a receiver, from which it may be poured into a special narrow measuring-glass so graduated that what would cover a space of the area of the funnel to the depth of 1 inch fills a portion of the glass large enough to be easily graduated into 100 parts. The funnel may have any diameter from 3 to 24 inches without introducing a greater discrepancy than 1 or 2 per cent, of the amount of rain collected, but 5 and 8 inches are the diameters usually employed, and the measuring-glasses are graduated accordingly. Advantage is sometimes taken of the fact that for a funnel 4697־ inches in diameter 1 fluid ounce of water collected represents one-tenth of an inch of rain, since the area is 1733־ square inches, and a fluid ounce at 60° Fahr. contains 1733־ cubic inches of water.
The best form of instrument, Glaisher’s rain and snow gauge recommended by the Royal Meteorological Society, is a cylindrical copper vessel 8 inches in diameter and 18 inches high, in which the funnel is placed about halfway down (see fig. 1).
The Scottish Meteorological Society largely employ Howard’s raingauge, a plain glass bottle holding about half a gallon and provided with a long 5-inch copper funnel, which has a collar fitting over the neck of the bottle to prevent rain from being blown in laterally by the wind. In some forms the funnel leads to a long glass tube divided into inches, tenths, and hundredths of rainfall. Mr Symon’s storm raingauge on this principle is intended to be read from a distance, and is only graduated into tenths of an inch. The water collected by a raingauge may be weighed instead of measured, but the latter process being much more simple is always adopted, at a slight expense of accuracy, however, as the variation of volume with temperature is not taken into account. Precipitation and evaporation being complementary phenomena, an atmometer or evaporation-gauge ought, strictly speaking, to accompany each raingauge. But none of the instruments yet devised can be regarded as satisfactory, accordingly a number of devices have been introduced to calculate or to minimize the evaporation from raingauges. Dr Garnett in 1795 proposed to use two gauges of unequal size, and recently Prof. Michie Smith has introduced a simplification by making the area of one gauge exactly double that of the other. If the evaporation is the same from each, the difference between the readings of the two gauges gives the true rainfall in the smaller. If A be the area of the funnel in the smaller, 2A that of the funnel in the larger, V a certain volume of water placed in each gauge, E the evaporation, and II the inches of rainfall, then V + 2 All - E-{V+ AR-E) — AR, however V and E may vary. The simplest and best method is to use a funnel terminating in a long straight tube, which reaches almost to the bottom of the receiving vessel. Gauges have been constructed for experimental purposes always to face the wind, and with openings capable of being fixed at any angle. For use at sea they may be swung on gimbals ; but when so employed the record must be supplemented by the readings of a hydrometer so as to detect and allow for any admixture with sea-spray. Self-registering and self-recording raingauges, as frequently used in meteorological observatories, are constructed on two leading types. In Hermann’s “ hyetometrograph, ” 1789, a fixed funnel conducts the rain into one of twelve glasses placed on the circumference of a horizontal wheel, which is turned by clockwork so that each glass remains under the funnel for one hour. In Stutter’s more recent instrument the receiving funnel delivers into a smaller funnel, which has a sloping tube and is carried round by clockwork so as to remain for one hour over each of twenty-four fixed glasses arranged in a circle. The second kind of self-registering instrument produces a continuous record of rainfall, indicating the hour of commencement and close of each shower, the amount of rain that has fallen, and the rate at which it fell. In Beckley’s “ pluviograph ” a pencil, attached to a vessel which sinks as it receives the rain, describes a curve on a sheet of paper fixed round a rotating cylinder; when full the receiver empties itself by means of a siphon and the pencil is carried rapidly upwards, describing a straight vertical line.
The higher a raingauge is placed above the ground, or rather above a broad flat surface, the smaller is the rainfall registered, as the following figures indicate :—
Height of funnel above ground in feet. .0    1    10    20    40    200
Bain registered (average)..............158־0 70־0 90־0 93'0 00־1 07־
When the mouth of the gauge is on or within a few inches of the ground the insplashing of raindrops increases the amount of water. Minute rain-spherules, which usually float in horizontal or oblique planes, are most numerous near the ground, where consequently they coalesce to form regular drops which fall into the funnel. The raindrops also increase slightly in size by condensing moisture as they fall. But the greatest effect is probably produced by wind, which forms eddies round high and isolated objects, thus more or less interfering with the fall of rain into the gauge. It is obvious that all raingauges intended for comparison should be fixed at the same height, and in Great Britain the standard distance of the mouth of the funnel from the ground or from a broad flat surface is one foot. The situation of a raingauge should be perfectly open, especially in the direction of the prevailing rainbringing winds. In measuring rain it is essential to see that the funnel is not indented or deformed in any way, and that the collecting vessel is inaccessible to air or rain except through the funnel. The temperature of rain as it falls should be observed whenever it is possible to do so. The amount of solid matter collected in the raingauge should be ascertained and recorded as bearing on Mr Aitken’s theory of rain (see Evaporation), and it should be examined microscopically for volcanic and cosmic dust.    (H. R. M.)
RAIPUR, a district of India, in the Ckhatisgarh division of the Central Provinces, lying between 19° 48' and 21° 45' N. lat. and 80° 28' and 82° 38' E. long., with an area of 11,855 square miles. It is bounded on the N. by Bilaspur, on the E. by Sambalpur and Patna, on the W. by Balaghat, Bhandara, and Chanda, and on the S. by Bastar and Jeypur. The district spreads out in a vast plateau closed in by ranges of hills branching from the great Vindhyan chain. It is drained by the Seonath and the Karun rivers, which subsequently unite and form the Mahanadi. Geologically the country consists in the hilly tracts of gneiss and quartzite; the sandstone rocks in the west are intersected with trap dykes. Iron ore is abundant, and red ochre of high repute is found. In the interior the principal strata are a soft sandstone slate (covered generally by a layer of laterite gravel) and blue limestone, which crops out in numerous places on the surface and is invariably found in the beds of the rivers. Throughout the plains the soil is generally fertile. The climate is generally good; the mean temperature is 78° and the average rainfall about 49 inches.
The population of Raipur in 1881 was 1,405,171 (males 696,242, females 708,929). By religion 856,492 were Hindus, 14,991 Mohammedans, and 821 Christians. The only town with a population exceeding 10,000 is Raipur (see below). Attached to the district are four feudatory states, viz., Chhuikhadan (with 32,979 inhabitants), Ranker (63,610), Khairagarh (166,138), and Nandgaon (164,339). Their combined area is 2658 square miles.
Of the total area under British administration only 3636 square miles are cultivated, and of the portion lying waste 4337 acres are returned as cultivable. The staple crop is rice; other crops are wheat, food-grains, oil-seeds, and cotton. The commerce of Raipur is of quite recent creation, for under the Mahrattas the transit dues that were levied prevented its development. The exports consist mainly of grain, cotton, and lac, while metals constitute the chief import. The gross revenue of the district for 1883-84 amounted to about £89,829, of which the land yielded £64,871.
Raipur was governed by the Haihai-Bansi dynasty of Ratanpur for many centuries until their deposition by the Mahrattas in 1741. The country was then already in a condition of decay, and soon afterwards it relapsed into absolute anarchy. In 1818 it was taken under British superintendence and made rapid progress. It fell with the rest of the Nagpur dominions to the British Government in 1854. Raipur suffered but little during the mutiny.
RAIPUR, chief town of the above district and headquarters of the Chhatisgarh division of the Central Provinces, is situated in 21° 15' N. lat. and 81° 41' E. long., on a plateau 950 feet above sea-level. In 1881 its population amounted to 24,948 (12,447 males and 12,501 females). The modern town dates from 1830, and carries on a flourishing trade in grain, lac, cotton, Ac.
RAIS, Raiz, or Retz, Gilles de (d. 1410), marshal of France, seigneur of Hautpart and of many other lordships, who was hanged and burned at Nantes in 1440, has left a name connected directly with one of the most horrible stories in history, and indirectly with other curious matter. Not much is known of Rais before the trial which made his name infamous. He was of the noblest blood of the marches of Brittany, being on the father’s side of the Laval branch of the ducal family of Montfort, and being connected through his mother and by marriage with the houses of Craon, Thouars, and others. His possessions in the district from which he took his name, and which borders the estuary of the Loire on the south, as well as along the river, were great, and his chief seat was at ChamptocA He had served in the English wars with the credit of a brave knight, had a rather special reputation for devotion, had been marshal since 1429, and had held the alms-dish at the coronation of Charles VII. Suddenly he was arrested, tried, and, as above stated, executed on the evidence of accomplices and his own confession. The crimes with which he was charged extended over some fourteen years. During that period it was alleged that he had, through different agents, especially a AA'oman called La Meffraie, kidnapped or enticed to his various abodes large numbers (Monstrelet says 100, others 140) of children. These children, after being subjected to every outrage of lust and cruelty, Avere sacrificed to the devil, their blood used for magical ceremonies, their bodies burned, and their bones buried in the precincts of Rais’s castles. The ultimate purpose of this deAnl-worship Avas asserted to be the acquisition by Rais (who was assisted by divers sorcerers, especially an Italian imported for the purpose) of power and honours in the state. The depositions were Ar ery full and still exist, and on them and his confession Rais Avas executed. It is, however, somewhat suspicious that the bishop of Nantes, who promoted, and the duke of Brittany, who sanctioned the proceedings, were both bitter personal enemies of Rais, Ailiile the king, who AA־as also concerned, had for a main part of his policy the putting doAvn of feudal barons ayIio, like Rais, held posts of vantage in the country. The tAAT o chief contemporary authors avIio mention the case, Monstrelet and Chastellain, speak of it Avith somewhat less horror than might, even alloAving for possible political sympathies, have been expected. Monstrelet (who says that Rais was charged Avith the murder of pregnant Avomen also) says that “ many ladies and damsels ” begged his body of the duke, and that great part of the nobles of Brittany, not only his relations, had great sorroAv and sadness for his death. Chastellain introduces the ghost of Rais in rather striking fashion in his Temple de Bocace as “ folloAved by a multitude of little children crying ‘Vengeance.’” The affair affected public imagination as much because of the rarity of a criminal of such rank being brought to justice as of the heinousness of the crimes attributed to him. Locally it took a very strong hold of the popular mind, and a tradition not easy to trace connects it with the Bluebeard legend, which finally took shape in the hands of Perrault. This connexion, liOAvever, hardly bears examination. In the first place, there is no evidence that Rais ever was called Bluebeard, though a contemporary English adventurer A\'ho is mentioned by Holinshed Avas so called, and may have left a bad reputation in France. In the second, it is impossible to trace even the most superficial resemblance betAveen the stories. In Bluebeard there are no children concerned, no unnatural crimes, no sorcery; it is merely one of the numerous stories of “ punished curiosity ” so frequent in folk-lore. As it stands the Rais story is too horrible to make much of a figure in literature; but it has attracted some students of causes célèbres, notably Dumas fils in his Tristan le Roux.
For authorities besides the passages of Monstrelet and Chastellain above quoted, Michelet, Histoire de France, and Vallet de Viriville, Histoire de Charles VIL, may be consulted. Mézeray’s account, usually followed in books of reference, is loose ; he had evidently not seen the records, nor even Monstrelet. But his assignment of a state crime against the duke as the real cause of death is very probable, though not formally correct.
RAISINS are the dried fruits of certain varieties of the grape vine, Vit is vinifera, which groAv principally in the warm climate of the Mediterranean coasts and are comparatively rich in sugar. The use of dried grapes or raisins as food is of great antiquity (Numb. a1 ; 3 .¡־ Sam. xxv. 18, xxx. 12). In mediaeval times raisins imported from Spain Avere a prized luxury in England, and to the present day Great Britain continues to be the best customer of the raisin-producing regions. “ Raisins of the sun ” are obtained by letting the fruit continue on the vines after it has come to maturity, Avhere there is sufficient sunshine and heat in the autumn, till the clusters dry on the stocks. Another plan is partially to sever the stalk before the grapes are quite ripe, thus stopping the Aoav of the sap, and in that condition to leave them on the vines till they are .sufficiently dry. The more usual process, liOAvever, is to cut off the fully ripe clusters and expose them, spread out, for several days to the rays of the sun, taking care that they are not injured by rain. In unfavourable weather they may be dried in a heated chamber, but are then inferior in quality. In some parts of Spain and France it is common to dip the gathered clusters in boiling Avater, or in a strong potash lye, a practice which softens the skin, favours drying, and gives the raisins a clear glossy appearance. Again, in Asia Minor the fruit is dipped into hot Avater on the surface of which swims a layer of olive oil, which communicates a bright lustre and softness to the skin. Some superior A־arieties are treated with very great care, retained on their stalks, and sent into the market as clusters for table use ; but the greater part are separated from the stalks in the process of drying and the stalks AvinnoAved out of the fruit. Raisins come from numerous Mediterranean localities, and present at least three distinct varieties,—(1) ordinary or large raisins, (2) sultana seedless raisins, and (3) currants or Corinthian raisins (see vol. vi. p. 715). The greater proportion of the common large raisins of English commerce comes from the provinces of Malaga, Valencia, and Alicante in Spain ; these are knoAvn by the common name of Malaga raisins. Those of the finest quality, called Malaga clusters, are prepared from a variety of muscatel grape, and preserved on the stalks for table use. This variety, as Avell as Malaga layers, so called from the manner of packing, are exclusively used as dessert fruit. Raisins of a somewhat inferior quality, knoAvn as “lexias,” from the same provinces, are used for cooking and baking purposes. Smyrna raisins also come to some extent into the English market. The best quality, knoAvn as Elemé, is a large fruit, having a reddish yelloAv skin with a sweet pleasant flavour. Large-seeded dark-coloured raisins are produced in some of the islands of the Greek Archipelago and in Crete, but they are little seen in the British markets. In Italy the finest raisins are produced in Calabria, inferior qualities in central Italy and in Sicily. From the Lipari Islands a certain quantity of cluster raisins of good quality is sent to England. In the south of France raisins of high excellence—Provence raisins in clusters—are obtained at RoqueAr aire, Lunel, and Frontignan. Sultana seedless raisins are the produce of a small variety of yellow grape, cultivated exclusively in the neighbourhood of Smyrna. The vines are groAvn on a soil of decomposed hippurite limestone, on sloping ground rising to a height of 400 feet
above the sea, and all attempts to cultivate sultanas in other raisin-growing localities have failed, the grapes quickly reverting to a seed-bearing character. The dried fruit has a fine golden-yellow colour, with a thin, delicate, translucent skin and a sweet aromatic flavour. A very fine seedless oblong raisin of the sultana type with a brownish skin is cultivated in the neighbourhood of Damascus, but it is rarely seen in the Western markets.
Raisins are chiefly valuable on account of the large proportion of grape sugar and cream of tartar which they contain. In old dry raisins these substances are found in hard nodular masses. The seeds contain from 15 to 18 per cent, of a bland fixed oil and about 5 per cent, of tannin. The imports into the United Kingdom average in value about £1,000,000 yearly, the quantity imported in 1883 having been 588,309 cwt., valued at £1,057,934.
RAJA (English form Rajah), Sanskrit nom. sing, of the stem rdjan (in modern Indian vernaculars raja, rajah, raja, rajan, rdzu, irdsen, also the forms red, rdo, rdna are traceable to the same stem) = king, prince, chief, from the root raj, to be resplendent. In the oldest times the headman of any petty tribe was called rhjh from the fact of his being conspicuous for the number of golden ornaments with which he was decked out. Then raja became the common designation for a king, whether of a small tribe or of a large state. The constitution of all states was monarchical, mostly hereditary, occasionally also electoral, but in no case absolute, for the people had a voice in the government. On the other hand, the king was greatly hampered in his action by his duties towards the priestly caste. Even in that later stage of Indian civilization which we find portrayed in the code of Manu the king appears as subordinate to the priest, though his prerogative is in all other respects paramount, especially in the matter of revenue. Theoretically this system has been continued ever since; but practically the rdj d’s powers have been gradually extended, some of them being distributed by him at his pleasure among various officials, who were rewarded, not by regular salaries, but by grants and the profits of oppression.@@1 It thus appears that the title is, strictly speaking, only applicable to Hindu potentates, but in practice it is not unfrequently used to indicate a ruling chief irrespective of his nationality or creed.
The rights and privileges assigned to rfijfis by treaty and usage are manifold and varied. But all rAjfis are precluded from waging war against an external foe save with the permission of the British Government, and so none can be said to be independent in the fullest sense of the word. At the same time there are several princes in India who titularly hold that status, in so far, that is, as they possess the right to administer their kingdom according to their own notions of justice and equity; but even in these instances, and they are few, British residents are attached to the various courts, charged to advise in the interests of good government and righteous dealing. Such officers seldom fail to secure a powerful influence, and it is not often that their counsel is disregarded or their representations pass unheeded. More than this, when flagrant injustice occurs the British Government is occasionally compelled to interfere, and instances are not wanting when a raja has been deposed, notwithstanding a clause in his treaty forbidding the intervention of the British Government in the affairs of his state. Such cases, which are not frequent, are justified by political necessity. In many instances native chiefs are allowed by treaty to maintain a military force, but at the present time the troops principally serve to gratify the cravings of Eastern potentates for the outward and visible signs of power.
Rdj4s of lesser note retain a semblance of power so far
@@@1 See for the Vedic period, H. Zimmer, Altindisches Leben, Berlin, 1879, p. 162 sq. ; for later times, M. Duncker, Geschichte des Alter-thuins, iii. 152 sq., and Tod’s Antiquities of Rajasthan, passim.
as concerns questions of minor importance, but in grave cases involving issues of life and death the officer attached to the court reviews and, should it be necessary, modifies or reverses the decrees which may be passed. Chieftains in this category do not even enjoy the appearance of independence, though in many instances they are allowed to keep a body of military retainers.
Other r&jds are merely large and wealthy landholders with no sovereign rights or privileges, resembling in many respects the territorial magnates of Great Britain; while in some instances the term is simply a title of distinction unconnected with the possession of land or power.
Scarcely less complex and varied are the conditions which regulate succession to the rAj ships of India : in some instances adoption is admitted, in other cases collateral succession is accepted, while again there are occasions when the customs of the family are a potent factor in the choice of an heir. It might have been supposed perhaps that the salute could be fairly taken as indicative of the status of the chief to whom it is assigned; but in reality such an assumption would be most misleading, for not unfrequently the number of guns was fixed in bygone years, and the lapse of time has made numerous and essential changes in the status of the various chieftains. So much is this the case that it has never been settled authoritatively what chiefs are entitled to claim the Western prefix of “highness.”
RAJAMAHENDRI (Rajamahendravaram, Rajahmun-dry), a town of India, in the Godavari district, Madras presidency, situated on high ground on the left bank of the Godavari river in 17° N. lat. and 81° 49' E. long., and 365 miles north-east of Madras. Its population in 1881 numbered 24,555 (males 12,290, females 12,265). Rajamaliendri, was formerly the headquarters of a separate district of the same name, but is now incorporated with Godavari.
Tradition divides the merit of founding this city between the Orissa and Chalukya princes. There appears little doubt that the city of the Vengi kings was identical with the site of the present town, and that this also was the seat of the Orissa power in the south. In 1471 Rajamahendri was wrested from Orissa by the Mohammedans, but early in the 16th century it was retaken by Krishna Raja and restored to Orissa. It continued under Hindu rule till 1572, when it yielded to the Moslems of the Deccan under Rafat Khan. For the next century and a half it was the scene of perpetual fighting, and at last fell to Golconda, and became one of the four nawabships of that government. Rajamahendri passed into the possession of the French in 1753, but they were driven out by the British under Colonel Forde in 1758. The French, however, recaptured it, but, finding that the treasure had been removed, they evacuated it almost immediately.
RAJPUTANA, an immense tract of country in India, consisting of twenty states, having each its own autonomy and separate chief, besides the small British division of Ajmere, which is situated almost in the centre 'of the province. These territories lie between 23° and 30° N. lat. and between 69 30' and 78° 15' E. long., and their combined area is approximately estimated at 130,000 square miles. Rfijputdna extends from the province of Sind on the west to the North-Western Provinces on the east, skirting the Bombay presidency on the south, and stretching to the Punjab on the north. It is traversed from south-west to north-east by the Rajputdna State Railway, and from the south to that railway at Ajmere by the Malwa Railway from Ivhandwa on the Great Indian Peninsula line through Indore. The country is divided by the Aravalli Mountains into two unequal parts (of which the north-western is much the "larger), and consists to a great extent of sandy, arid, and unproductive wastes, but it improves gradually to comparatively habitable and fertile tracts towards the north-east. This division includes the Thur or great sandy desert of northern India, covered everywhere by long parallel dunes, varying from 50 to 100
feet high, with few wells and streams, and almost destitute of vegetation. The south-eastern division is considerably more elevated and fertile, is diversified in character, and contains extensive hill-ranges and long stretches of rocky wold and woodland; it is watered by the drainage of the VindhyAs, carried north-east by the Chambal and Banas rivers. In many parts there are wide vales, fertile plateaus, and great stretches of excellent soil, with forests and artificial lakes; but even in this division the surface, for the most part, is stony, rugged, under jungle, and infertile, except close to the river banks.
The chief rivers of Rajputana are the Loni, the Chambal, and the Banas. The first of these, the only river of any consequence in the north-western division, flows for 200 miles from the Pukar valley, close to Ajmere, to the Runn of Cutch. In the southeastern division the river system is important. The Chambal is by far the largest river in Rajputana, through which it flows for about one-third of its course, while it forms its boundary for another third. The source of the river is in the highlands of the Vindhyas, upwards of 2000 feet above the sea ; it enters the province at Chaurasgarh in Mewar and soon becomes a considerable stream, collecting in its course the waters of other rivers, and finally discharging itself into the Jumna after a course of 560 miles. Next in importance ranks the Banas, which rises in the south-west near Kankraoli in Mewar. It collects nearly all the drainage of the Mewar plateau with that of the eastern slopes and hill-tracts of the Aravallis, and joins the Chambal a little beyond the northeastern extremity of the Bundi state, after a course of about 300 miles. Other rivers are the W. Banas and the Sabarmati, which rise among the south-west hills of Mewar and take a south-westerly course. The river Mahi, which passes through the states of Partab-garh and Banswara, receiving the Som, drains the south-west corner of Rajputana through Gujrat into the gulfs of Cutch and Cambay. Rajputana possesses no natural freshwater lakes, but there are several important artificial lakes, all of which have been constructed with the object of storing water. The only basin of any extent is the Sambhar salt lake, of about 50 miles in circuit.
Geologically considered the country may be divided into three regions,—a central, and the largest, comprising the whole width of the Aravalli system, formed of very old sub-metamorphic and gneissic rocks ; an eastern region, with sharply defined boundary, along which the most ancient formations are abruptly replaced by the great basin of the Vindhyan strata, or are overlaid by the still more extensive spread of the Deccan trap, forming the plateau of Malwa ; and a western region, of very ill-defined margin, in which, besides some rocks of undetermined age, it is more or less known or suspected that Tertiary and Secondary strata stretch across from Sind, beneath the sands of the desert, towards the flanks of the Aravallis. Rajputana produces a variety of metals. Ore of cobalt is obtained in no other locality in India, and although zinc blend has been found elsewhere it is known to have been extracted only in this province. Copper and lead are found in several parts of the Aravalli range and of the minor ridges in Ulwur and Shekha-wati, and iron ores abound in several states. Alum and blue vitriol (sulphate of copper) are manufactured from decomposed schists at Khetri in Shekhawati. Good building materials are obtained from many of the rocks of the country, amongst which the Raialo limestone (a fine-grained crystalline marble) and the Jaisalmir (Jeysulmere) limestone stand pre-eminent.
Rajputana is of great archseologic interest, and possesses some fine religious buildings in ruins and others in excellent preservation. Amongst the latter are the mosque at Ajmere and the temples on Abu. But the finest and most characteristic features of architecture in the country are shown in the forts and palaces of the chiefs and in their cenotaphs.
Herds of camels, horses, and sheep are found wherever there is pasturage, and in the desert and in the southern part of the country wild asses, nylghau, and antelopes, besides lions, leopards, tigers, wolves, hyienas, jackals, and foxes, are met with.
The climate throughout Rajputana is very dry and hot during summer ; while in the winter it is much colder in the north than in the lower districts, with hard frost and ice on the Bikanir borders. The rainfall is very unequally distributed : in the western part, which comes near to the limits of the rainless region of Asia, it is very scanty, and scarcely averages more than 5 inches ; in the south-west the fall is more copious, sometimes exceeding 100 inches at Abu ; but, except in the south-west highlands of the Aravallis, rain is most abundant in the south-east. Notwithstanding all its drawbacks, Rajputana is reckoned one of the healthiest countries in India, at least for the native inhabitants.
Population.—The census of 1881, which was the first general enumeration of population in Rajputana since England’s connexion with India, gave a total number (including Ajmere division) of 10,729,114. Of these 166,343 were Bhils ; but no accurate census
could be taken of these people owing to their repugnance to bo counted. Exclusive of Bhils, the population numbered 10,562,771 (5,710,337 males, 4,852,434 females). The following statement gives the area and population of the several states and of the British division of Ajmere :—
The great mass of the people are Hindus, numbering in 1881 (excluding Bhils) 9,215,272, as against 919,556 Mohammedans and 3519 Christians. Among, the Hindus the paucity of Rajputs is remarkable. It is commonly supposed that, because nearly the whole country is ruled by Rajputs, therefore the population consists mainly of Rajput tribes ; but these are merely the dominant race, and the territory is called Rajputana because it is politically possessed by Rajputs. The whole number of this race is roughly estimated at 700,000, and nowhere do they form a majority of the whole population in a state ; but they are strongest, numerically, in the northern states and in Mewar. By rigid precedence the Brahmans occupy the first rank ; they are numerous and influential, and with them may be classed the peculiar and important caste of Charans or Bhats, the keepers of secular tradition and of the genealogies. Next come the mercantile castes, mostly belonging to the Jaina sect of Hinduism ; these are followed by the powerful cultivating tribes, such as the Jats and Gujars, and then come the non-Hindu or so-called aboriginal tribes, chief of whom are the Minas, Bhils, and Mhairs.
The mass of the people are occupied in agriculture. In the large towns banking and commerce flourish to a degree beyond what would be expected for so backward a country. In the north the staple products for export are salt, grain, wool, and cotton, in the south opium and cotton ; while the imports consist of sugar, hardware, and piece goods. Rajputana is very poor in industrial production. The principal manufactures are salt, cotton, and woollen goods, carvings in ivory, and working in metals, &c., all of which handicrafts are chiefly carried on in the eastern states. The system of agriculture is very simple ; in the country west of the Aravallis only one crop is raised in the year, while in other parts south and east of the Aravallis two crops are raised annually, and various kinds of cereals, pulses, and fibres are grown.
History.—Only faint outlines can be traced of the condition of Rajputana previous to the invasion of Upper India by the Mohammedans, and these indicate that the country was subject for the most part to two or three very powerful tribal dynasties. Chief of these were the Ralitors, who ruled at Kanauj ; the Cliauhans of Ajmere ; the Solankhyas of Anhilwara, in Gujrat; the Gehlots with the Sesodia sept, still in Mewar or Udaipur; and the Kachwaha clan, still in Jaipur. These tribal dynasties of Rajputs were gradually supplanted by the Moslem invaders of the 11th century and weakened by internal feuds. At the beginning of the 16th century the Rajput power began to revive, but only to be overthrown by Baber at Fatelipur Sikri in 1527. The clans were finally either conquered, overawed, or conciliated by Akbar—all except the distant Sesodia clan, which, however, submitted to Jahangir in 1616. From Akbar’s accession to Aurangzeb’s death, a period of 151 years, the mogul was India’s master. Aurangzeb’s death and the invasion of Nadir Shah led to a triple alliance among the three leading chiefs, which internal jealousy so weakened that the Mahrattas, having been called in by the Rahtors to aid them, took possession of Ajmere about 1756 ; thenceforward Rajputana became involved in the general disorganization of India. By 1803 nearly the whole of Rajputana had been virtually subdued by the Mahrattas. The victories of Generals Wellesley and Lake, however, saved the Rajputs ; but on Wellington’s departure from India the floodgates of anarchy were reopened for ten years. On the outbreak of the Pindari War in 1817 the British Government offered its protection. The Pindaris were put down, Amir Khan submitting and signing a treaty which constituted him the first ruler of the existing state of Tonk. By the end of 1818 similar treaties had been executed by the other Rajput states with the paramount power. Sindhia gave up the district of Ajmere to the British, and the pressure of the great Mahratta powers upon Rajputana was permanently withdrawn. Since then the political history of Rajputana has been comparatively uneventful. The great storm of the mutinies of 1857, though dangerous while it lasted, was
short. The capture of the town of Kotah, which had been held by the mutineers of that state, in March 1858, marked the extinction of armed rebellion in the province.    (W. T. R.)
RAJSHAHI or Rajeshaye, a district of India, in the lieutenant-governorship of Bengal, forming the southwestern corner of the Rfijshfihf with Kuch Behar division.@@1  It lies between 24° 3' and 24° 59' N. lat. and between 88° 21' and 89° 24' E. long., and is bounded on the N. by the districts of Din&jpur and Bogra, on the E. by Bogra and Pabna, on the S. by the Ganges and Nuddea district, and on the W. by Maldah and Murshidabiid. The area of 2359 square miles is one alluvial plain seamed with old river-beds and studded with marshes. The Ganges and the Mah&nandfi are its principal rivers; the former constitutes a great natural boundary-line to the south and south-west, and the latter, which rises in the Himalayas, borders the district on the wr est for a few miles before joining the Ganges. Other rivers are the Narad and Baral, important offshoots of the Ganges; the Atrai, a channel of the Tista; and the Jamuna, a tributary of the Atrai. Both the Atrai and the Jamuna belong to the Brahmaputra system and are navigable throughout the year for small cargo boats. The drainage of Rdjshahi is not carried off by means of its rivers, but through the chains of marshes and swamps, the most important of which is the Chalan “ bil ” or lake, which discharges itself into the Brahmaputra. The climate of Raj shdhf does not differ from that of other districts of Lower Bengal; its average rainfall for the five years ending 1882/83 equalled 68 inches. The Northern Bengal State Railway intersects the district from north to south.
Population.—The census of 1881 gave a population, almost entirely rural, of 1,338,638 (males 660,226, females 678,412). Of this number 288,749 were returned as Hindus, 1,049,700 as Mohammedans, and only 121 as Christians. The only town with over 10,000 inhabitants was Rampur Beauleah (19,228), which is the chief town and administrative headquarters of the district. This town is situated on the north bank of the Ganges in 24° 22' N. lat. and 88° 39' E. long. ; it is of modern growth and is built for the most part on river alluvia. It was formerly the seat of the Dutch and East India Company’s factories, and is still a centre of the silk and indigo trade.
Rice is the staple crop of the district; other cereal crops are wheat, barley, and Indian corn, which are grown to a small extent; among miscellaneous crops are indigo, sugar-cane, mulberry, and tobacco. Ganja is also grown in a small tract to the north of the district. Silk spinning and weaving and the preparation of indigo are the chief manufactures, but these are now both declining. The total revenue of Rajshahi in 1883-84 amounted to £123,098, towards which the land-tax contributed £88,584.
History.—When the East India Company took over the administration of Bengal in 1765 Rajshahi was one of the largest and most important districts in the province. It appears to have extended from Bhagulpur on the west to Dacca on the east, and to have included an important subdivision called Nij-Chakla Rajshahi on the south of the Ganges, which extended over a great portion of what now lies within the districts of Murshidabad, Nuddea, Jessore, Birbhum, and Burdwan. The total area was estimated at 12,909 square miles, or more than five times the size of the present district. Having been found much too large to be effectually administered by one central authority, Rajshahi was stripped by Government in 1793 of a considerable portion of its outlying territory, and a natural boundary-line was drawn to the west, south, and east along the Ganges and Brahmaputra. Its north-western limits were reduced in 1813, when the present district of Maldah was constituted. The erection of Bogra into a separate jurisdiction in 1821 still further reduced its area ; and in 1832 the limits of Rajshahi were finally fixed very much at their present lines by the constitution of Pabna into an independent jurisdiction.
RAkOCZY, the name of an old and wealthy family of upper Hungary. Sigismund was on 11th February 1607 elected prince of Transylvania, but in the following year abdicated in favour of Gabriel Bathori, to whom succeeded
@@@1 The Rajshahi with Kuch Behar division comprises the seven districts of Dinajpur, Rajshahi, Rangpur, Bogra, Pabna, Darjiling, Jal-paiguri, and the native state of Kuch Behar. Its total area is 18,735 square miles, and its population (1881) 8,336,399 (males 4,237,388, females 4,099,011).
Bethlen Gfibor. Bethlen died in 1629, and George I. (1591-1648), son of Sigismund, born in 1591, was, after the demission of Gdbor’s widow, Catherine of Brandenburg, 26th November 1631, elected prince of Transylvania by the estates. In 1645 he joined the Swedes in an attempt to deliver Hungary from the yoke of Austria and secure religious liberty to the Protestants, but when the emperor Ferdinand showed a disposition to enter into a treaty with him he became oblivious of the cause of which he had been the professed champion. By the treaty of Linz he was formally recognized as prince of Transylvania. He died on 24th October 1648. George II. (1615-1660), son of the preceding, was chosen by the estates to succeed him as prince of Transylvania. Having been disappointed in his hopes of the crown of Poland on the death of Casimir V., he entered into an alliance with John Casimir and invaded the country, but was completely defeated on 16th July 1657. His procedure against Poland provoked the hostility of the Turks, with whom he was engaged in continual war until his death at Grosswardein on 26th June 1660, from wounds received at the battle of Klausenburg. Francis I. (1642-1676), son of the preceding, did not succeed his father as prince of Transylvania. Having become connected with a plot for the overthrow of the Austrian Government, his life was only saved through the intervention of his mother, who was a Catholic, and he had to pay a fine of 400,000 florins. He edited a volume of prayers, which had an extensive circulation in Hungary. He died on 8th July 1676. Francis Leopold (1676-1735), son of the preceding, was at the age of twelve along with his mother made prisoner by the Austrians, and by them was educated in a Jesuit college in Bohemia. After his marriage with a princess of Hesse he returned to Hungary, where the greater portion of his estates was restored to him. On account of his connexion with a conspiracy of the malcontent party he was in 1701 arrested and brought to Vienna, but making his escape he went to Poland, where he spent several years in exile. In 1703 he headed a new insurrection, which had achieved considerable success before the death of the emperor Leopold in the end of 1705. Owing to the milder attitude of Joseph I., matters for a time assumed a more peaceful appearance. In 1707 Rfikbczy was elected prince of Transylvania, and on 31st May of this year the independence of Hungary was proclaimed. From this time, however, the fortunes of the Hungarian cause began to decline, and Rfikdczy finally in despair, having refused an amnesty and offers of pardon, retired to the frontiers of Poland, after which, on 1st May 1711, peace was concluded at Szatmar. Rakoczy refused to own it, and retired to France and subsequently to Turkey, where he died at Rodosto on 8th April 1735. (See Hungary, vol. xii. pp. 369-370.)
RALEIGH, a city of the United States, the capital of North Carolina and the seat of justice of Wake county, is situated in 35° 47' N. lat. and 78° 48' W. long., a little to the north-east of the geographical centre of the State, and occupies a kind of high ground in the upper valley of the Neuse, a river flowing south-east towards Pamlico Sound. It is the meeting-place of three railways—the Raleigh and Gaston, the Raleigh and Augusta, and the Richmond and Danville lines—and its railway distance from Portsmouth is 177 miles and from Washington 230. Raleigh is laid out round a park of 10 acres called Union Square and divided into four sections by four broad streets which strike out symmetrically from this centre; the fine old trees which were spared by the original settlers give it the sobriquet of “City of Oaks.” Besides the State house or capitol (a substantial granite structure in Union Square), the public buildings comprise the county courthouse, the governor’s mansion, the United States court-
house and post-office (1875), the State geological museum, a State insane asylum, institutions for the blind and the deaf and dumb, the penitentiary, and the Shaw institute for the higher education of coloured pupils. There are a normal school and a graded school system for both white and coloured pupils, Raleigh is a centre of the cotton and tobacco trades, has railway machine and car shops, and manufactures steam-engines, shuttle blocks and bobbins, ice, cotton-seed oil, fertilizers, hosiery, clothing, agricultural implements, carriages, carpentry, cigars, marble wares, Ac. The population was 4780 in 1860, 7790 (4094 coloured) in 1870, and 9265 (4354 coloured) in 1880. Raleigh was selected as the seat of government in 1788, was laid out in 1792, and made a city in 1794.
RALEIGH, Sir Walter (1552-1618), admiral and courtier, was born at Hayes in Devonshire in 1552. After a short residence at Oriel College, Oxford, he took service in the autumn of 1569 with a body of volunteers serving in the French Huguenot army, and he probably did not return to England till 1576. During the course of these years he appears to have made himself master of seamanship, though no evidence of this is obtainable. In 1579 he was stopped by the council from taking part in a voyage planned by his half-brother Sir Humphrey Gilbert, and in 1580 he commanded an English company in Munster (Ireland). On 10th November he took part in the massacre at Smerwick. He remained in Ireland till December 1581, distinguished for his vigour and ability as well as for his readiness to treat Irish rebels as mere wild beasts, who were to be pitilessly exterminated, and whose leaders might be smitten down if necessary by assassination. In one way or another Raleigh’s conduct gained the favourable notice of Elizabeth, especially as he had chosen to seek for the support of Leicester, in whose suite he is found at Antwerp in February 1582. For some years Raleigh shone as a courtier, receiving from time to time licences to export woollen cloths and to sell wine, after the system by which Elizabeth rewarded her favourites without expense to herself. In 1585 he became lord warden of the Stannaries, soon afterwards he was vice-admiral of Devon and Cornwall, and in 1587 was captain of the guard. But he was one of those who were dissatisfied unless they could pursue some public object in connexion with their chase after a private fortune. In 1583 he risked ¿£2000 in the expedition in which Sir Humphrey Gilbert perished. In 1584 he obtained a charter of colonization, and sent Amadas and Barlow to examine the country which he named Virginia. In 1585 he despatched a fleet laden with colonists. They were, however, soon discouraged and were brought back to England by Drake in the following year. Shortly afterwards fifteen fresh colonists were landed, and another party in 1587. All these, however, perished, and, though Raleigh did all that was possible to succour them, the permanent colonizing of Virginia passed into other hands.
In 1584 Raleigh obtained a grant of an enormous tract of land in Munster, in one corner of which he introduced the cultivation of the potato. To people that land with English colonists was but the counterpart of the attempt to exterminate its original possessors. This view of the policy of England in Ireland was not confined to Raleigh, but it found in him its most eminent supporter. In his haste to be wealthy, his love of adventure, his practical insight into the difficulties of the world, and his unscrupulousness in dealing with peoples of different habits and beliefs from his own, Raleigh was a representative Elizabethan Englishman. He did his best, so far as a usually absentee landlord could do, to make his colonists prosperous and successful; but he underestimated the extraordinary vitality of the Irish race, and the resistance which was
awakened by the harsh system of which he was the constant adviser at Elizabeth's court. Elizabeth, too, was unable to support him with the necessary force, and his whole attempt ended in failure. Raleigh’s efforts were at least made on behalf of a race whose own civilization and national independence were at stake. The Elizabethan men were driven to take large views of their difficulties, and it was impossible for Raleigh to separate the question whether English forms of life should prevail in Munster from the question whether they should be maintained in England. Two conceptions of politics and religion stood face to face from the Atlantic to the Carpathians, and every one of vigour took a side. The balancing intellects were silenced, or, like Elizabeth’s, were drawn in the wake of the champions of one party or the other. Wherever the strife was hottest Raleigh was sure to be found. If he could not succeed in Ireland he would fight it out with Spain. In 1588 he took an active part against the Armada, and is even supposed by some to have been the adviser of the successful tactics which avoided any attempt to board the Spanish galleons. In 1589 he shared in the unsuccessful expedition commanded by Drake and Norris, and for some time vessels fitted out by him were actively employed in making reprisals upon Spain.
Raleigh was a courtier as well as a soldier and a mariner, and as early as 1589 he was brought into collision with the young earl of Essex, who challenged him, though the duel was prevented. Some passing anger of the queen drove him in this year to visit Ireland, where he renewed his friendship with Spenser, and, as is told in poetic language in Colin Clout’s come Home again, took the poet back with him to England, introduced him to Elizabeth, and persuaded him to proceed to the immediate publication of a portion of the Faerie Queen. If Raleigh could plead for a poet, he could also plead for a Puritan, and in 1591 he joined Essex in begging for mercy for Udall. In the end of 1591 or the beginning of 1592 Raleigh seduced and subsequently married Elizabeth Throckmorton, and was consequently thrown into the Tower by Elizabeth, who could not endure that the fantastic love-making to herself which she exacted from her courtiers should pass into real affection for a younger woman. Previously to his imprisonment Raleigh had been forbidden to sail in command of a fleet of which a great part had been fitted out at his own cost for service against Spain. The ships, however, sailed, and succeeded in capturing a prize of extraordinary value known at the time as the “ Great Carrack.” No one but Raleigh was capable of presiding over the work of securing the spoils. He was sent to Plymouth, still in the name of a prisoner, where his capacity for business and his power of winning the enthusiastic affection of his subordinates were alike put to the test. The queen at last consented to restore him to complete liberty, though she tried to cheat him of his fair share of the booty.
Raleigh resolved to use his regained liberty on an enterprise more romantic than the capture of a carrack. The fable of the existence of El Dorado was at that time fully believed in Spain, and in 1594 Raleigh sent out Captain Wheddon to acquire information about the lands near the Orinoco. In 1595 he sailed in person with five ships for Trinidad. On his arrival he found that the Spaniards, who had occupied a place called San Thome at the junction of the Orinoco and the Caroni, had been obliged to abandon it. Raleigh ascended the river to the spot, heard more about El Dorado from the Indians, brought away some stones containing fragments of gold, and returned to England to prepare a more powerful expedition for the following year. When he came back lies published an account of his voyage. The hope of enriching himself, and of giving to his country a source of wealth
which would strike the balance in its favour in the struggle with Spain, exercised a strong fascination over the imaginative character of Raleigh. In the next year, 1596, however, he was wanted nearer home, and was compelled to content himself with sending one of his followers, Captain Keymis, to extend his knowledge of Guiana. He was himself called on to take the command of a squadron in the expedition sent against Spain under Lord Howard of Effingham and the earl of Essex. It was Raleigh who, on the arrival of the fleet off Cadiz, persuaded Howard and Essex to begin by an attack on the Spanish fleet, and who himself led the van in sailing into the harbour. Before long the Spanish fleet was thoroughly beaten, and all of it, except two vessels which were captured, was destroyed by the Spaniards themselves. Raleigh was wounded in the action, and the subsequent capture of Cadiz was carried out by others. In May 1597 Elizabeth, who was growing somewhat tired of the petulance of Essex, readmitted Raleigh to court. It was arranged that he should go as rear-admiral of a fleet, under the command of Essex, intended to cripple yet further the maritime power of Spain. The “ island voyage,” as it was called, was on the whole a failure, the only notable achievement being the capture of Fayal (Azores) by Raleigh in the absence of Essex. The generous nature of Essex was overmastered by vanity, and, falling under the sway of meaner men, he grew to regard Raleigh as a personal rival. He did not even mention the capture of Fayal in his official account of the voyage.
In 1598 Elizabeth, who was always ready to reward her courtiers at the expense of others, completed a bargain in Raleigh’s favour. In 1591 he had obtained, through the queen’s intervention, a lease for ninety-nine years of the manor of Sherborne from the bishop of Salisbury. In 1598 the see was vacant. Aspirants to the mitre were informed that only by converting the lease into a perpetual estate in Raleigh’s favour could the object of their wishes be obtained. On these terms Dr Cotton became bishop of Salisbury and Raleigh possessor of Sherborne in full ownership. In 1600 Raleigh added to his other offices that of governor of Jersey. A temporary reconciliation between Raleigh and Essex was followed by a permanent estrangement when Essex was appointed to the government of Ireland, the personal feeling on both sides being probably strengthened by the divergence between their Irish policies,—Raleigh wishing to use force alone, whilst Essex wished to come to terms with Tyrone. When Essex rushed into his final act of rebellion he gave out as one of his reasons his fear of being murdered by Raleigh and Lord Cobham, who at this time were allied.
After the death of Essex the question of the succession assumed a pressing importance with the imminence of the close of Elizabeth’s reign. Cecil, allying himself with the intriguing Lord Henry Howard, assured himself of James’s favour, and poisoned his ear against Raleigh and Cobham. Into Raleigh’s feelings at this time it is impossible to penetrate with certainty, but it can hardly be doubted that, though he professed himself ready to support James’s claim, he did not throw his whole heart into the cause of the Scottish king. Raleigh was the man of the struggle against Spain, self-reliant and unrelenting, eager to push on the reprisals on Spain till the Spanish monarchy was utterly beaten down. James was a lover of peace, anxious to live on good terms with all his neighbours, and under the belief that by fair dealing the Catholic powers and the pope himself might be brought to accept loyally the hand which he was ready to hold out. Raleigh, in short, wished to emphasize the differences which divided Christendom; James wished to treat them as hardly existing at all. When James came to the throne, therefore, he was certain
to come into conflict with Raleigh, and not being able to see the advantage of keeping about him men of different tempers he dismissed him from the captaincy of the guard, compelled him to surrender the wardenship of the Stannaries, suspended his patent of wine licences as a monopoly, and took from him the governorship of Jersey, though for this he gave him a pension to compensate for his loss. That which followed it is impossible to fathom to the bottom. Raleigh must have been very angry, and it is quite possible that he may have used violent language and have even spoken of a Spanish invasion as preferable to the rule of James, or have declared his preference of the title of Arabella Stuart to that of the existing sovereign. The main witness against him was Cobham, and Cobham made and retracted his charges with such levity that it is impossible to trust to his evidence. Raleigh, however, was imprisoned, and, after attempting to commit suicide, was brought to trial at Winchester in November 1603, when he was condemned to death. The king, however, commuted his sentence upon the scaffold to one of imprisonment.
During his imprisonment in the Tower Raleigh devoted himself to chemical experiments and to literary work. It was here that he composed so much of the History of the World as was ever finished, and that he also issued pamphlets on questions of passing politics. Here too he learned that misfortune continued to follow him, and that there was a flaw in the conveyance by which he had made over Sherborne to trustees to save it from the usual consequences of attainder, and that James had seized it for his favourite Carr, though he gave in compensation £8000 and a pension of £400 a year for the lives of Lady Raleigh and her eldest son.
Raleigh’s thoughts had often turned to Guiana. An offer made by him in 1612 to send Keymis to the gold mine which he believed to exist near the Orinoco was rejected, but in 1616 he was himself released at the intercession of Yilliers, on the understanding that he was to go in person to Guiana, and was to visit the gold mine. As a security that he would not encroach upon the territory of Spain, he Avas to remain unpardoned, so that his life might be at the king’s mercy if he broke his promise. It is probably not doing injustice to Raleigh to suppose that he had no intention of keeping it if it proved inconvenient. As far as Avas then knoAvn, indeed, the spot Avhere the mine Avas supposed to be might be reached Avithout passing a Spanish settlement, though he Avas aAvare that the Spaniards claimed the Avhole country as their OAvn. To seize Spanish territory and to fight the Spaniards in every possible Avay was, lioAvever, regarded by him as altogether righteous as well as politic, and he had no respect for James’s scruples, which arose partly from Aveakness, but partly also from a respect for international obligations, Avhich in the case of Spain Avas foreign to Raleigh’s mind. Most likely Raleigh thought that all Avould be well if he brought home sufficient evidence that the mine Avas AAT orth possessing. Before he sailed he suggested to James that he should be alloAved to attack Genoa, a city in dependence on Spain, and AA’hen this plan was rejected he entered into communication with the French ambassador and sent to the admiral of France to ask permission to bring into a French harbour all that he might gain on his voyage. The expedition turned out badly. His sailors would not ascend the Orinoco unless he remained at the mouth to keep off the Spaniards. Those who ascended found a Spanish village in the Avay, and after a sharp fight drove the Spaniards out and burned the place. The mine, if it really existed, they never reached, and Raleigh had to return to England with failure on his head. He was soon arrested and lodged in the Tower.
Whether James Avould have pardoned Raleigh if he had
brought home large quantities of gold cannot now be said. Coining home as he did, he had to bear the blame of the attack on the Spanish village, which he had done nothing to avert in his orders to the party going up the river. He was brought before a commission of the privy council. Notes taken of the proceedings have only partially been preserved, but it appears that there was strong evidence that after his failure he had attempted to induce his captains to seize Spanish prizes, or, in other words, to commit what James held to be an act of piracy, though Raleigh, with his views of the rightfulness of fighting Spain in America whatever the Governments in Europe might do, would doubtless have qualified it by another name. At last the commission decided against him, and he was sent to execution formally on his old sentence at Winchester, in reality for having allowed his men to shed Spanish blood after engaging that he would not do so. He was executed on 29th October 1618. His attitude against Spain gave him popularity at a time when the attempt of James to draw’ closer the bonds between Spain and England was repudiated by the great majority of the nation.    (s. R. G.)
RAMAH. ( See Samuel.
RAMAYANA. See Sanskrit Literature.
RAMBAN. R. Mosheh Ben Nahman, or Nachman-ides, was born before 1200 at Gerona, where he was rabbi and physician, and died between 1268 and 1270 in Pales-tine, probably at Acre. Although a Sepharadi in the later and larger sense of the word, he was the disciple of the greatest Provençal rabbis, and became the most celebrated Talmudist and cabbalist of his age in his own country.
1.    Of his extant commentaries on the Bible that on the Penta-
teuch is the most valuable. Three editions may be named. (1) Ed. prin., s. 1. et a., but certainly before 1480. According to oral tradition the compositors set the type in a waggon whilst travel-ling in Italy from place to place for the purpose of selling printed books. (2) Lisbon, 1489.    (3) Naples, 1490. This book has been
translated at least twice into Latin (Schiller-Szinessy, Catal., i. pp. 174-177). The authorship of the commentary on Job, ascribed to Nachmanides, has been questioned, but without good grounds {op. cit., pp. 211213־). The commentaries, however, generally ascribed to him on Canticles and Ruth are certainly not his.
2.    Of his many works on Rabbinic literature we mention only : (1 השגות, Strictures on Maimonides’s {q. v. ) Sepher Hammisvoth (Constantinople, 1510, 4to ; Venice, 1550, folio,—the latter in Giustiniani’s edition of Maimonides’s Mishneh Torah. A cheap
edition came out at Warsaw in 1883).    (2) מלחמות ה׳,
Remarks against Rabbenu Zerahyah’s Moor (both printed now with the Riph) and Hassaba (both in Tcmim Dc'im, §§ 225, 226).    (3)
ספר הזכות, vindication of Al-Phasi against Rabad {q.v.—the third)
(Vienna, 1805). (4) לקומות ,חרושים ,הלכות, Decisions, Novelise, and Collectanea ; these are spread over almost the whole Talmud. The Rcs-ponsa ascribed to him are by his disciple Rashba. (5) דרשה, a sermon on the superiority of the Mosaic Law (best edition by Jellinek, Vienna, 1872, 8vo).    (6) Letters {a) on the Maimonidean
controversy (cheapest edition, Vilna, 1821, 8vo) ; (5) to his son, on conduct (Lisbon ed. of the Pent, com.) ; (c) Iggereth Hakkodesh, on the ethics of matrimony (latest edition, Berlin, 1793, 8vo) ; MSS. lie in almost every public library in Europe, e.g., Cambridge. (7) תורת האדם, on Sickness, Death, d-c. (Constantinople, 1518, folio), —partly ascetic and contemplative, partly Rabbinic ordi-
nances ; its last chapter separately under the title of שער הגמול (Naples, 1490, 4to, and reprints). (8) His anti-Christian contro-versics are chiefly contained in his וכוח, a Disputation with the convert Pablo Christian!, the teacher of Raymundus Martini, held before Jayme I., king of Aragon ; it is translated into Latin, and will be found, with a mutilated and otherwise corrupt text, in Wag-enseil’s Tela ignea Satanse (Altdorf, 1681, 4to), the best and cheapest edition of the text and of the explanation of Isa. lii. 13 to liii. 12 being that of Dr Steinschneider (Berlin, 1860, 8vo).    (9) Cabbal-
istic matter is contained in all Rainban’s works (notably, however, in the Pentateuch@@1 and Job) ; he has also a commentary on the Sepher Ycsirah (Mantua, 1562, 4to, and reprints). (10) Nachmanides was
also a liturgical writer of eminence. There are extant by him a prose prayer for one going on a sea voyage ( Yephe Noph, Venice, 1575, 4to), and a piece of religious poetry {Mclo Chofnajim, Berlin, 1840, 8vo, pp. 39-41) for the Malkhiyyoth (first part of the additional service of New Year) ; the latter is a mostajdb and betrays a perfect master both in kabbalah and poetry. For a specimen of Aramaic poetry see his introductory poem to Milhnmoth Adonai. (S. M. S.-S. )
RAMBOUILLET, chief town of an arrondissement in the department of Seine-et-Oise, France, 30 miles southwest of Paris on the line to Brest, is a small place of 5186 inhabitants, and derives its whole interest from the associations connected with the ancient chateau, which stands surrounded by a beautiful park of 2965 acres and a wide forest dating from the 14th century. A great machicolated tower and some apartments with good woodwork still remain. The gardens, partly in French, partly in English style, are picturesque, and have an avenue of Louisiana cypress unique in Europe. The park contains the national sheep-farm, where the first flock of merino sheep in France was raised last century. The school of sheep-farming is of recent foundation. Here, too, is the first military school erected for soldiers’ children.
Originally a royal domain, the lands of Rambouillet passed in the 14th century to the D’Angennes family, who held them for 300 years and built the château. Francis I. died there in 1547 ; and Charles IX. and Catherine de’ Medici found a refuge in the chateau in the wars of religion, as Henry III. did after them. The famous marquise de Rambouillet is separately noticed below. Created a duchy and peerage in favour of the duke of Toulouse, son of Louis XIV., Rambouillet was subsequently bought and embellished by Louis XVI., who erected a model farm, sheep establishment, and other buildings. The place was a hunting-seat of Napoleon I. and Charles X., and it was here that in 1830 the latter signed his abdication.
RAMBOUILLET, Catherine de Yivonne, Marquise de (1588-1665), a lady famous in tbe literary history of France, was born in 1588. She was the daughter and heiress of Jean de Yivonne, marquis of Pisani, and her mother Giulia was of the noble Roman family of Savelli. She was married at twelve years old to Charles d’Angennes, vidame of Le Mans, and afterwards marquis of Rambouillet. Her celebrity is due to the salon or literary meeting-place which she established as early as 1608 in the Hôtel de Rambouillet,—or, to give it its proper name, the Hôtel Pisani, for M. de Rambouillet had shortly before his marriage sold his family mansion. Madame de Rambouillet not merely endeavoured to refine the manners of her guests and gave special attention to literary conversation, but also seems to have taken great trouble to arrange her house for purposes of reception, and is said to have been the first to devise suites of rooms through which visitors could move easily. The hôtel was open for more than fifty years, and almost all the more remarkable personages in French society and French literature frequented it, especially during the second quarter of the century, when it was at the height of its reputation. The incidents connected with the salon of the “ incomparable Arthénice ” (an anagram for Catherine which is said to have taken two poets of renown, Malherbe and Racan, a whole afternoon to devise) are innumerable, and it would be impossible to recount them in any space here available. Among the more noteworthy are the sonnet war between the Uranistes and the Jobistes—partisans of two famous sonnets by Voiture and Benserade—and the composition by all the famous poets of the day of the Guirlande de Julie, a collection of poems on different flowers, addressed to Julie d’Angennes, Madame de Rambouillet’s eldest daughter. Even more important is the rise of the Précieuses, who owed their existence to Madame de Rambouillet’s salon and influence. These ladies—who are usually represented in the memory of posterity by Molière’s avowed caricatures and by Mademoiselle de Scudéry, but whose name, it must l be remembered, Madame de Sévigné herself was proud to
@@@1 Naclimanides’s acuteness and honesty are a sufficient guarantee that the Bahir (Midrash, 15 ; Ency. Brit., xvi. p. 287), so often quoted in his Pentateuch commentary as a bona fide old book, cannot be a composition of his own time, as some have of late asserted.
bear—insisted on a ceremonious gallantry from their suitors ' and friends (though it seems from Tallemant’s account that practical jokes of a mild kind were by no means excluded from the Hôtel de Rambouillet), and especially favoured an elaborate and quintessenced kind of colloquial and literary expression, such as at the end of the 16th and in the earlier part of the 17th century was fashionable throughout Europe. The immortal Précieuses Ridicules was no doubt directly levelled not at the Hôtel de Rambouillet itself but at the numerous coteries which in the course of years (for the salon had been open for more than a generation when Molière’s piece, which was patronized by the real Précieuses themselves, appeared) had sprung up in imitation of it. But the satire did in truth touch the originators as well as the imitators,—the former more closely perhaps than they perceived. The Hôtel de Rambouillet continued open till the death of its mistress, 27th December 1665, but latterly it lost its peculiar position. It had no doubt a very considerable influence in bringing about the classicizing of French during the 17th century, though the literary work with which it is chiefly identified was of an older school than that of the age of Louis XIV. proper.
The chief original authorities respecting Madame de Rambouillet and her set are Tallemant des Réaux in his Historiettes and Somaize in his Dictionnaire des Précieuses. Many recent writers have treated the subject, among whom MM. Cousin, Livet, and De Barthélemy deserve special mention.
RAMEAU, Jean Philippe@@1 (1683-1764), musical theorist and composer, was born at Dijon, 25th September 1683. His musical education, partly in consequence of his father’s desire to prepare him for the magistracy, still more through his own wayward disposition, was of a very desultory character ; but his talent manifested itself at a very early age. In 1701 his father sent him to Milan to break off a foolish love-match. But he learned little in Italy, and soon returned, in company with a wandering theatrical manager, for whom he played the second violin. He next settled in Paris, where he published his Premier Livre de Pièces de Clavecin, in 1706. In 1717 he made an attempt to obtain the appointment of organist at the church of St Paul. Deeply annoyed at his unexpected failure, he retired for a time to Lille, whence, however, he soon removed to Clermont-Ferrand, where he succeeded his brother as organist at the cathedral, and here it was that his true art-life began.
Burning with desire to remedy the imperfection of his early education, Rameau now diligently studied the writings of Zarlino, Descartes, Mersenne, F. Kircher, and certain other well-known authors. He not only mastered their several theories but succeeded in demonstrating their weak points and substituting for them a system of his own, which, notwithstanding its manifest imperfection, was based upon firm natural principles, and ultimately led to discoveries of the utmost possible value to musical science. His keen insight into the constitution of certain chords, which in early life he had studied only by ear, enabled him to propound a series of hypotheses, many of which are now accepted as established facts ; and, if, in his desire to carry out his system to a logical conclusion, he was sometimes tempted into palpable and dangerous error, it was only in obedience to the law which invariably renders the inventor of a new theory blind to the stubborn facts which militate against its universal application. His theory was based upon an instinctive anticipation of the discoveries of modern science. While the older contrapuntists were perfectly satisfied with the laws which regulated the melodious involutions of their vocal and instrumental parts, Rameau demonstrated the possibility of building up a natural harmony upon a fundamental bass,
and of using that harmony as an authority for the enactment of whatever laws might be considered necessary for the guidance either of the contrapuntist or the less ambitious general composer. And in this he first explained the distinction between two styles, which, in deference to the views expressed by a popular critic of the present day, have been called the “horizontal and vertical systems,” the “horizontal system” being that by which the older contrapuntists regulated the onward motion of their several parts, and the “ vertical system ” that which constructs an entire passage out of a single harmony. From fundamental harmonies he passed to inverted chords, to which he was the first to call attention ; and the value of this discovery fully compensates for his erroneous theory concerning the chords of the eleventh and the great (Angl. “added”) sixth.@@2
Rameau first set forth his new theory in his Traité de VHarmonie (Paris, 1722), and followed it up in his Nouveau Système (1726), Génération Harmonique (1737), Démonstration (1750), and Nouvelles Réflexions (1752). But it was not only as a theorist that he became famous. Returning to Paris in 1722, he first attracted attention by composing some light dramatic pieces, and then showed his real powers in his first great opera, Hijypolyte et Aricie, founded on Racine’s Phèdre, and produced at the Académie in 1733. Though this work was violently opposed by the admirers of Lully, whose party spirit eventually stirred up the famous “ guerre des bouffons,” Rameau’s genius was too brilliant to be trampled under foot by an ephemeral faction, and his ultimate triumph was assured. He afterwards produced more than twenty operas, the most successful of which were Dardanus, Castor et Pollux, Les Indes Galantes, and La Princesse de Navarre. Honours were now showered upon him. He was appointed conductor at the Opéra Comique, and the directors of the opera granted him a pension. King Louis XV. appointed him composer to the court in 1745, and in 1764 honoured him with a patent of nobility and the order of Saint Michael. But these last privileges were granted only on the eve of his death, which took place in Paris on 12th September 1764.
RAMESES (Gen. xlvii. 11 ; Exod. xii. 37 ; Num. xxxiii. 3), or, with a slight change in the vowel points, Raamses (Exod. i. 11), the name of a district and town in Lower Egypt, is notable as affording the mainstay of the current theory that King Rameses II. was the pharaoh of the oppression and his successor Menptah the pharaoh of the exodus. The actual facts, however, hardly justify so large an inference. The first three passages cited above are all by the priestly (post-exile) author and go together. Jacob is settled by his son Joseph in the land of Rameses and from the same Rameses the exodus naturally takes place. The older narrative speaks not of the land of Rameses but of the land of Goshen ; it seems probable, therefore, that the later author interprets an obsolete term by one current in his own day, just as the Septuagint in Gen. xlvi. 28 names instead of Goshen Heroopolis and the land of Rameses. Heroopolis lay on the canal connecting the Nile and the Red Sea, and not far from the head of the latter, so that the land of Rameses must be sought in Wâdy Tüinilât near the line of the modern freshwater canal. In Exod. i. 11, again, the store-cities or arsenals which the Hebrews built for Pharaoh are specified as Pithom and Raamses, to which LXX. adds Heliopolis. Pithom (the city of the god Turn) is probably the Patumus of Herod, ii. 158, which also lay on the canal, so here again Wâdy Tümilât is the district to which we are referred. But did the Israelites maintain a continuous recollection of the names of the cities on which they were forced to build, or were these names rather added by a writer who knew what fortified places were in his own time to be seen in Wâdy
@@@1 Not Jean Baptiste, as erroneously stated by Gerber.
@@@2 For further information on this subject, see voi. xvii. p. 92.
TurnilAt ? The latter is far the more likely case, when we consider that the old form of the story of the Hebrews in Egypt is throughout deficient in precise geographical data, as might be expected in a history not committed to writing till the Israelites had resided for centuries in another and distant land. The post-exile or priestly author indeed gives a detailed route for the exodus (which is lacking in the older story), but he, we know, was a student of geography and might supplement tradition by what he could gather from traders as to the caravan routes.@@1 And at all events to argue that, because the Hebrews worked at a city named after Rameses, they did so in the reign of the founder, is false reasoning, for the Hebrew expression might equally be used of repairs or new works of any kind.
It appears, however, from remains aiul inscriptions that ltameses II. did build in Wady Tumilat, especially at Tell Maskhuta, which Lepsius therefore identified with the Raamses of Exodus. This identification is commemorated in the name of the adjacent railway station. But recent excavations on the spot have brought to light further inscriptions, on the ground of which Naville makes the ruins those of Pithom and further identifies Pithom with the later Heroopolis. The identity of Pithom and Heroopolis is also favoured by comparison of the LXX. and the Coptic of Gen. xlvi. 28. See E. Naville, The Store-city of Pithom and the Route of the Exodus, London, 18S5.
li AMES WAR AM, a small island situated between Ceylon and India, at the entrance of Palk Strait in the Gulf of Manaar, in 9° 18' N. lat. and 79° 22' E. long. It is about 14 miles long by 5 wide, is low and sandy, and for the most part uncultivated. The estimated population of the island is about 14,000. It contains one of the most venerated Hindu shrines, founded, according to tradition, by Rama himself, which for centuries has been the resort of thousands of pilgrims from all parts of India. To the south of this great temple there is a freshwater lake about 3 miles in circumference. At the western extremity of the island is the small but busy port of Pambam, which gives its name to the channel between India and Ceylon.
Rameswaram island is the first link in the chain of islets and rocks forming Adam’s Bridge. Geological evidence shows that this gap was once bridged by a continuous isthmus, which, according to the temple records, was breached by a violent storm in 1480. Operations for removing the obstacles in the channel, and for deepening and widening it, were begun in 1838. The main channel has a minimum depth of 14 feet; its length is 4232 feet and its breadth 80 feet. A second channel to the south, called the Kilkarai Passage, is 2100 feet long, 150 feet wide, and is dredged to a depth of 12 feet.
RAMMOHUN ROY. See Roy.
RAMPUR, a native state of India, in the Rohilkhand division of the North-Western Provinces, lying between 28° 26' and 29° 10' N. lat. and between 78°54' and 79°33' E. long. It is bounded on the N. and W. by the British district of MurAdAbAd, and on the N.E. and S.E. by the district of Bareli. The country is level and generally fertile ; it is well watered in the north by the rivers Kosila and Xaliul and in the south by the RAmgangA. It adjoins the Tarai on the north, at the foot of the HimA-layas, and is exceedingly unhealthy. The total area of the state is 945 square miles, with a population (1881) of 541,914 (males 282,359, females 259,555), of whom 302,989 were Hindus and 238,925 Mohammedans.
The revenue of Rampur in 1883-84 was £167,031 and the ordinary annual expenditure £160,134. Rice, sugar, hides, and a kind of damask are the principal exports, and the imports comprise elephants, English cloth, and groceries and salt. During the mutiny of 1857 the nawab of Rampur rendered important services to the British, for which he received a grant of land assessed at £12,852 in perpetuity, besides other honours.
RAMPUR, capital of the above state, stands on the left bank of the Kosila in 28° 48' N. lat. and 79° 4' E. long.; it is surrounded by a belt of bamboo trees and
@@@1 From the position of the words it is even not unlikely that “ Pithom and P.aarnses” may be the addition of a redactor, and that the first author of Exod. i. 11 only spoke generally of store-cities.
brushwood, with a low ruined parapet, and is the residence of the nawab, who represents the Rohilla chieftains of Rohilkhand. A lofty mosque stands in the marketplace ; the streets are densely crowded together and principally built of mud. The population of the town in 1881 numbered 74,250 (males 36,355, females 37,895); it is famous for fine shawls and damask, which are exported to all parts of India.
RAMPUR BEULEAH. See Ri.JSHi.Hf, supra, p. 261.
RAMSAY, Allan (1686-1758), author of the Gentle Shepherd, a pastoral drama in the Lowland Scotch dialect, was born in Lanarkshire in 1686. An Edinburgh barber set agoing the literary movement in Scotland that culminated in the poetry of Burns. This peasant-poetry is often spoken of as if it were a spontaneous indigenous product, but the harvest that ripened towards the close of the 18th century had its seed-time earlier, and the seeds were imported from England. Allan Ramsay was a peasant by birth (although he claimed kinship with the noble family of Dalhousie)—the son of a manager of lead-mines in Lanarkshire; but the country-bred lad was transplanted to a town, being apprenticed at the age of fifteen to a barber in Edinburgh. In this calling he somehow made the acquaintance of a band of Jacobite young gentlemen of literary tastes, was admitted to the convivialities of their “Easy Club,” and formally adjudged “a gentleman.” The basis of the club seems to have been literary, the members taking fancy names of celebrities,—Buchanan, Boece, Bickerstaff, and so forth. Ramsay’s name was Bickerstaff, and the fact is of some importance as showing how he was brought into contact with the discussion of the theory of pastoral poetry among the London wits of the time. Ramsay’s connexion with the Easy Club lay between 1712 and 1715, and in the course of that period occurred the dispute about pastoral poetry occasioned by the great publication of Pope’s Windsor Forest (see Pope). The Guardian for 7tli April 1713 (No. 23) contained a description of a true pastoral poem, which was afterwards realized by Ramsay in the Gentle Shepherd with such scrupulous fidelity in every detail that the criticism might fairly be described as the recipe from which the poem was made. There is not a clearer case in literary history of the influence of criticism on creation; Ramsay’s great pastoral— and it well deserves the epithet—was the main outcome of the prolonged discussion of that kind of poetry by the Queen Anne wits. “Paint the manners of actual rustic life,” said the Guardian critic to the poet, “ not the manners of artificial shepherds and shepherdesses in a fictitious golden age; use actual rustic dialect; instead of satyrs and fauns and nymphs introduce the supernatural creatures of modern superstition.” These precepts Ramsay diligently observed, and the result was that his Gentle Shepherd not only attracted attention among the learned students of poetry as a literary curiosity, the first genuine pastoral after Theocritus, but at once became a favourite and a living force among the peasantry in whose dialect it was written and for wdiose characters it furnished ideal models. There was hardly a farmhouse in Scotland in which a copy of the poem was not to be found, and the moral force of the ideal exhibited in the hero Patie may be traced in the character of Burns and many another Scottish peasant-bard in whom ostentatious libertinism is not redeemed by the same genius. From a moral point of view a better exemplar than Ramsay’s ideal hero might well have been desired. The poct-laureate of the Easy Club took his moral tone from the poets of the Restoration, with whom his Jacobite boon companions were in full sympathy; and thus through the genial, convivial, quick-witted, and slily humorous barber the spirit of the Restoration passed into the homes of the Scotch peasantry to do battle with the austere spirit of the kirk.
The Gentle Shepherd is the only production of Ramsay’s that has much claim to remembrance. His lyrics for the most part are poor artificial imitations, adorned here and there with pretty fancies, but devoid of sincerity of feeling. He is happier in his humorous descriptions of character and occasional personal poems; “ renowned Allan, canty callan,” as his admirers loved to call him, had a quick sense of the ridiculous and a firm touch in the exhibition of what amused him. Once he had established a character as a poet he abandoned the trade of wig-making, set up as a bookseller, and was the first to start a circulating library in Scotland. From his shop in High Street opposite Niddry Street he issued his incidental poems in broadsheets, and made a volume of them in 1721, and another in 1728. The nucleus of the Gentle Shepherd was laid in separately issued pastoral dialogues; round these the complete drama was built and published as a whole in 1725. As a collector, editor, imitator, and publisher of old Scottish poetry Ramsay gave an impetus to vernacular literature at least as great as that given by his principal original poem. His Tea-Table Miscellany, published in 1724, for which English as well a3 Scottish poets and moderns as well as ancients were laid under contribution, was extremely popular; and his Evergreen (1724), a collection of poems written prior to 1G00, was the precursor of Bishop Percy’s Reliques in a similar field. A collection of Fables, published complete in 1730, part original, part translated from La Motte and La Fontaine, was Ramsay’s last literary work, but he lived to an advanced age, dying in 1758, the year before the birth of Burns. One of the speculations of the enlightened and enterprising man of business was a theatre, which was opened in 1736, but soon shut up by the magistrates.
A complete edition of Ramsay’s poems was issued by A. Gardner in 1877.
RAMSAY, Allan■ (1713-1784), portrait-painter, the eldest son of the author of The Gentle Shepherd, was born at Edinburgh about 1713.@@1 Ramsay manifested an aptitude for art from an early period, and at the age of twenty we find him in London studying under the Swedish painter Hans Huyssing, and at the St Martin’s Lane Academy; and in 1736 he left for Rome, where he worked for three years under Solimena and Imperiali (Fernandi). On his return he settled in Edinburgh ; and, having attracted attention by his head of Forbes of Culloden and his full-length of the duke of Argyll, he removed to London, where he was patronized by the duke of Bridgewater. His pleasant manners and varied culture, not less than his artistic skill, contributed to render him popular.. In 1767 the Scotsman was appointed to succeed Shakelton as principal painter to His Majesty; and so fully employed was he on the royal portraits which the king was in the habit of presenting to ambassadors and colonial governors that he was forced to take advantage of the services of a host of assistants—of whom David Martin and Philip Reinagle are the best known—upon the minor portions of his works, and sometimes on the faces themselves. His life in London was varied by frequent visits to Italy, where he occupied himself more in literary and antiquarian research than with art. But at length this prosperous career came to an end. The painter’s health was shattered by an accident, a dislocation of the right arm. With an unflinching pertinacity, which we can understand when we see the firm-set resolute mouth of his own portrait, he struggled till he had completed a likeness of the king upon which he was engaged at the time, and then started for his beloved Italy, leaving
behind him a series of fifty royal portraits to be completed by his assistant Reinagle. For several years he lingered in the south, his constitution finally broken. He died at Dover on the 10th of August 1784.
In his art Ramsay paid the penalty of popularity : the quality of the work which bears his name suffered from his unremitting assiduity as a court-painter and from his unsparing employment of assistants. Among his most satisfactory productions are some of his earlier ones, such as the full-length of the duke of Argyll, and the numerous bust-portraits of Scottish gentlemen and their ladies which he executed before settling in London. They are full of both grace and individuality ; the features show excellent draughtsmanship ; and the flesh-painting is firm and sound in method, though frequently tending a little to hardness and opacity. His full-length of Lady Mary Coke is an especially elegant female portrait, remarkable for the skill and delicacy with which the white satin drapery is managed ; while in the portrait of his brown-eyed wife, the eldest daughter of Sir Alexander Lindsay of Evelick, in the Scottish National Gallery, we have a sweetness and tenderness which shows the painter at his highest. This last-named work shows the influence of French art, an influence which helped greatly to form the practice of Ramsay, and which is even more clearly visible in the large collection of his sketches in- the possession of the Royal Scottish Academy and the Board of Trustees, Edinburgh.
RAMSAY, Andrew Michael (1686-1743), commonly called the “Chevalier Ramsay,” who was born at Ayr, Scotland, on 9th January 1686, is noteworthy as having been among the few writers not of French birth who are admitted by French criticism to have written in French with purity and scholarship. Ramsay visited France comparatively early and came under the influence of Fénelon, which made him a convert to Roman Catholicism. He held several important tutorships in his adopted country, the chief of which was the charge of Prince Charles Edward and the future cardinal of York. His biographers mention with surprise the conferring of an honorary degree upon him by the university of Oxford. The claim was nominally his discipleship to Fénelon, but in reality beyond doubt his connexion with the Jacobite party. He died at St Germain-en-Laye (Seine-et-Oise) on 6tli May 1743.
Ramsay’s principal work was the Travels of Cyrus (London and Paris, 1727), a book composed in avowed imitation of Télémaque. He also edited Télémaque itself with an introduction, and wrote an Essai de Politique on the principles of his master and a Histoire de la Vie et des Ouvrages de Fénelon, besides a partial biography of Turenne, some poems in English, and other miscellaneous works.
RAMSAY, David (1749-1815), American physician and historian, was the son of an Irish emigrant, and was born in Lancaster county, Pennsylvania, on 2d April 1749. After graduating M.D. at Princeton College in 1765 he settled as a physician at Charleston, where he obtained an extensive practice. During the revolutionary Avar he served as a field-surgeon, and in 1776 he became a member of the South Carolina legislature. Ha\r ing acted as one of the “council of safety” at Charleston, he Avas on the capture of that city on 27th August 1780 seized by the British as a hostage, and for nearly a year was kept in confinement at St Augustine. From 1782 to 1786 he was a member of Congress. His interest in the revolutionary struggle led him to devote his leisure to the preparation of several historical works on the subject, and in 1785 he published in tAvo volumes History of the Revolution in South Carolina, in 1789 in two volumes History of the American Revolution, in 1801 a Life of Washington, and in 1809 in two volumes a History of South Carolina. He was also the author of several minor works. He died at Charleston on 8th May 1815 from a Avound inflicted by a lunatic. His History of the United States in 3 vols, was published posthumously in 1816, and forms the first three volumes of his Universal History Americanized, published in 12 Ar ols. in 1819.
RAMSDEN, Jesse (1735-1800), astronomical instrument maker, Avas born at Salterhebble near Halifax, Yorkshire, in 1735. He went to London in 1755, and AAr as
@@@1 There seems to be some dubiety as to the exact date : the brothers Redgrave, in their Century of Painters, give the date as 1709, while Samuel Redgrave, in his Dictionary of Painters of the English School states it as 1713, a year—probably the correct one—assumed by Cunningham in his Lives.
shortly afterwards bound apprentice to a mathematical instrument maker. He afterwards started business on his own account and acquired great celebrity as an artist. He died on 5th November 1800.
Ramsden’s speciality was divided circles, which began to supersede the quadrants in observatories towards the end of the 18th century. His most celebrated work was a 5-feet vertical circle, which was finished in 1789 and was used by Piazzi at Palermo in constructing his well-known catalogue of stars. He was the first to carry out in practice a method of reading oif angles (first suggested in 1768 by the duke of Chaulnes) by measuring the distance of the index from the nearest division line by means of a micrometer screw which moves one or two fine threads placed in the focus of a microscope. Ramsden’s transit instruments were the first which were illuminated through the hollow axis; the idea was suggested to him by Professor Usslier in Dublin.
RAMSGATE, a seaport and watering-place of England, in the Isle of Tlianet, Kent, and a “ vill ” of the old Cinque Port of Sandwich, is finely situated between chalk cliffs at the northern extremity of Pegwell Bay, on the London, Chatham, and Dover Railway, 79 miles east-south-east of London. It possesses a fine stretch of sand, and is much frequented as a Avatering-place. It first rose into importance in the beginning of the 18th century through its trade with Russia. In 1749 it was selected as a harbour of refuge for the Downs, and the erection of a pier under the direction of Smeaton was begun in 1787. The harbour has been improved at various periods, and now (1885) covers an area of 51 acres, enclosed by two piers, one about 1200 and the other about 1500 feet in length, accommodation being afforded for as many as 400 sail. The limits of the port were extended in 1882. A considerable shipping trade in coal and provisions is carried on, and there is also a fleet of 150 vessels engaged in the North Sea fishery. A fine promenade pier was erected in 1881. The town possesses a town-hall (1839), assembly rooms, and extensive bathing establishments. The church of St George was built in 1826. There is a small Roman Catholic cathedral, built by Welby Pugin. The neighbouring Peg-well Bay, famed for its shrimps, is supposed to have been the scene of the landing of Hengist and Horsa, and at Cliff’s End (Ebbs Fleet) a monolithic cross marks the landing-place of St Augustine in 596. On the summit of Osengal Hill, about a mile to the west of the town, a graveyard of the early Saxon settlers was discovered during the cutting of the railway. Ramsgate was incorporated as a borough in 1884. The population of the urban sanitary district (area 2278 acres) in 1871 was 19,640, and in 1881 22,683, or, including 638 fishermen at sea, 23,321.
RAMUS, Peter, or Pierre de la Ramee (1515-1572), logician, was born at the village of Cuth in Picardy in the year 1515. He ■was descended from a noble family, which had fallen, however, into such poverty that his father earned his livelihood as a field-labourer. The early death of his father increased Ramus’s difficulties in obtaining the education for which he thirsted. But at last his perseverance was rewarded by admission, in a menial capacity, to the college of Navarre. He worked with his hands by day and carried on his studies at night. The reaction against scholasticism was still in full tide; it was the transition time between the old and the new, when the eager and forward-looking spirits had first of all to do battle with scholastic Aristotelianism. In the domain of logic men like Laurentius Valla, Rudolphus Agricola, and Ludovicus Vives, imbued with the spirit of the Renaissance, had already invoked Cicero against the barbarous Latinity of the scholastic compends; and, following the same prototype, they had proposed various innovations which tended to assimilate logic to rhetoric. Ramus outdid his predecessors in the impetuosity of his revolt. He signalized himself on the occasion of taking his degree
(1536) by victoriously defending the daring thesis—Everything that Aristotle taught is false. This tour de force was followed up by the publication in 1543 of Aristotélica Animadversiones and Dialecticæ Partitiones, the former a criticism on the old logic and the latter a new text-book of the science. What are substantially fresh editions of the Partitiones appeared in 1547 as Institutiones Dialecticæ, and in 1548 as Scholæ Dialecticæ·, his Dialectique, a French version of his system, is the earliest work on the subject in the French language. Meanwhile Ramus, as graduate of the university, had opened courses of lectures ; but his audacities drew upon him the determined hostility of the conservative party in philosophy and theology. He was accused of undermining the foundations of philosophy and religion, and the matter was brought before the parlement of Paris, and finally before the king. By him it was referred to a commission of five, who found Ramus guilty of having “acted rashly, arrogantly, and impudently,” and interdicted his lectures (1544). He withdrew from Paris, but soon afterwards returned, the decree against him being cancelled through the influence of the cardinal of Lorraine. In 1551 Henry II. appointed him professor of philosophy and eloquence at the Collège de France, where for a considerable time he enjoyed free scope for his energies. His incessant literary activity is proved by the fifty works which he published in his lifetime, to which must be added nine that appeared after his death. In 1561, however, the slumbering enmity against Ramus was suddenly fanned into flame by his adoption of Protestantism. He had to flee from Paris for his life ; and, though he found an asylum in the palace of Fontainebleau, his house was pillaged and his library burned in his absence. He resumed his chair after this for a time, but in 1568 the position of affairs was again so threatening that he found it advisable to ask permission to travel. He travelled mainly in Switzerland and Germany, residing some time in Basel, Heidelberg, Geneva, and Lausanne, and meeting everywhere with the most flattering reception. Returning to France, Ramus at last fell a victim to the inveterate hate of his opponents : he perished by the hands of hired assassins in the massacre of St Bartholomew (1572).
The logic of Ramus enjoyed a great celebrity for a time, and there existed a school of Ramists boasting numerous adherents in France, Germany, and Holland. As late as 1626 Burgersdyck divides the logicians of his day into the Aristotelians, the Ramists, and the Semi-Ramists, who endeavoured, like Goclenius of Marburg, to mediate between the contending parties. Ramus’s works appear among the logical text-books of the Scottish universities, and he was not without his followers in England in the 17th century. There is even a little treatise from the hand of Milton, published two years before his death, called Artis Logicæ Plenior Institutio ad Petri Rami Methodum concinnata. It cannot be said, however, that Ramus’s innovations mark any epoch in the history of logic ; and, though some of his additions have maintained their ground, he has made no contribution of fundamental importance to the science. His rhetorical leaning is seen in the definition of logic as the “ ars disserendi ” ; he maintains that the rules of logic may be better learned from observation of the way in which Cicero persuaded his hearers than from a study of the Organon. The distinction between natural and artificial logic, i.e., between the implicit logic of daily speech and the same logic made explicit in a system, passed over into the logical handbooks. Logic falls, according to Ramus, into two parts—invention (treating of the notion and definition) and judgment (comprising the judgment proper, syllogism, and method). This division gave rise to the jocular designation of judgment or mother-wit as the “ secunda Petri. ” He is, perhaps, most suggestive in his emendations of the syllogism. He admits only the first three figures, as in the original Aristotelian scheme, and in his later works he also attacks the validity of the third figure, following in this the precedent of Laurentius Valla. Ramus also set the modern fashion of deducing the figures from the position of the middle term in the premises, instead of basing them, as Aristotle does, upon the different relation of the middle to the so-called major and minor term. On the whole, however, though Ramus may be allowed to have advanced logical study by the wholesome fermentation of thought which he caused, we are
at a loss to see the grounds for his pretentious claim to supersede Aristotle by a new and independent system.
See Waddington-Kastus, De Petri Rami vita, scriptis, philosophia, Paris, 184S ; Charles Desmaze, Petrus Ramus, professeur au Collège de France, sa vie, ses écrits, sa mort, Paris, 1864.
RAMUSIO. The noble family of Ramusio—the spelling adopted in the publication of the Navigationi, though it is also written Ramnusio, Rhamnusio, Rannusio, &c.—was one of note for literary and official ability during at least four generations. Its original home was in Rimini, and the municipality of that city has within the last few years set up a tablet on the town-hall bearing an inscription which may be thus rendered: “The municipality of Rimini here records the claim of their city to the family of the Ramusios, adorned during the 15th and 16th centuries by the illustrious jurist and man of letters Paolo the elder, who rendered the work of Valturius, our fellow-citizen, into the vernacular ; by the physician Girolamo, a most successful student of Oriental tongues, and the first to present Europe with a translation of Avicenna ; and by Giovanni Battista, cosmographer to the Venetian republic and secretary to the Council of Ten, who bequeathed to the world that famous collection of voyages and travels, regarded in his own day as a marvellous work, and still full of authority among all civilized nations.״
Paolo the Elder (c. 1443-1506), the first of those thus commemorated, migrated in 1458 from Rimini to Venice, where he obtained full citizenship, studied law, and became a member of the magistracy, filling the offices of vicano, of judicial assessor, and of criminal judge under various administrators of the Venetian provinces on the continent. He continued, however, to maintain relations with the Mala-testa princes of his native city, and in 1503 negotiated with them the cession of Rimini to the republic. The wife of Paolo, bearing the singular name of Tomyris Macachio, bore him three sons and four daughters. Paolo died at Bergamo on 19th August 1506 at the age of sixty-three, and Avas buried in S. Agostino at Padua. Paolo was the author of a variety of legal treatises and the like, and also published at Verona in 1483 both a corrected edition and an Italian translation of a once famous book, Valturius, De re militari, dedicating both to Pandolfo Malatesta of Rimini.@@1
Girolamo (1450-1486), younger brother of Paolo, had a notable history. After he had studied medicine at Padua public suspicion was roused against him in connexion with the death of a lady with whom he had had some love passages, and this ran so high that he was fain, by help of his brother Paolo, to whom he transferred his property, to make his escape (about 1481-83) to Syria and to take up his abode at Damascus. In 1486 he removed to Beyrout, and died the same year, killed, as the family chronicler relates, by a surfeit of “certain fruit that Ave call armellini and albicocche, but which in that country are known as mazza-franchi,” a title which English sailors in southern regions still give to apricots in the vernacular paraphrase of kill-johns. During his stay in Syria Girolamo studied Arabic and made a neAv translation of Avicenna, or rather, we may assume, of some part of that author’s medical A\T orks (the Canon 1). It was, however, by no means the first such translation, as is erroneously alleged in the Rimini inscription, for the Canon had been translated by Gerard of Cremona (d. 1187), and this version was frequently issued from the early press. Girolamo’s translation was never printed, but A\r as used by editors of versions published at Venice in 1579 and 1606. Other Avorks of this questionable member of the house of Ramusio consisted of medical and philosophical tracts and Latin poems, some of which last were included in a collection published at Paris in 1791.@@2
Gian Battista (1485-1557), the eldest son of Paolo Ramusio and Tomyris Macachio, Avas born at Treviso in 1485 (20th June). Having been educated at Venice and at Padua, at an early age he entered the public service (1505), becoming in 1515 secretary of the senate and in 1533 secretary of the Council of Ten. He also served the republic in various missions to foreign states, e.g., to Rome, to Switzerland, and to France, travelling over much of the latter country by special desire of the king, Louis XII. He also on several occasions filled the office of cancellier grande. In 1524 he married Franceschina, daughter of Francesco Navagero, a noble,—a papal dispensation being required on account of her being cousin to his mother Tomyris. By this lady he had one son, Paolo. In his old age Ramusio resigned the secretaryship and retired to the Villa Ramusia, a property on the river Masanga, in the province of Padua, which had been bestowed on his father in 1504 in recognition of his services in the acquisition of Rimini the year before. The delights of this retreat are celebrated in the poems and letters of several of Gian Battista’s friends. He also possessed a house at Padua in the Strada del Patriarcato, a mansion noted for its paintings and for its collection of ancient sculpture and inscriptions. These, too, are commemorated by various writers. A few days before his death Ramusio removed to this house in Padua, and there died, 10th July 1557, at the age of seventy-tAvo. He was, by his OAvn desire, buried at Venice, in the tomb Avhich he had made for his mother, in Santa Maria dell’ Orto. His Avife’s death had occurred in 1536. In the work called Museum Mazzuchellianum (Venice, 1761, vol. i. pi. Ixiv. No. 6) there is represented a 16th-century medal of Ramusio, which looks a genuine likeness, and a bronze example of which, without the reverse,@@3 is preserved in St Mark’s Library. There Avas a portrait of him, represented as in conversation Avith Andrea Gradenigo, in the Sala del Maggior Consiglio, but in 1577 this perished in a fire, as did also a portrait of his father, Paolo. A professed portrait of Gian Battista by Francesco Grisellini, in the Sala dello Scudo, appears to be, like the companion portrait of Marco Polo, a work of fancy. A public nautical school at Rimini has within the last three years received from the Government the title of the Isti-tuto Ramusio.
Ramusio Avas evidently a general favourite, as he Avas free from pushing ambition, modest, and ingenuous, and, if it be safe to judge from some of the dissertations in his Navigationi, must have been a delightful companion; both his friend Giunti and the historian Giustiniani@@4 speak of him with the strongest affection. He had also a great reputation for learning. Before he was thirty Aldus Manutius the elder dedicated to him his edition of Quintilian (1514); a few years later (1519) Francesco Ardano inscribed to him an edition of Livy, and in 1528 Bernardino Donati did the like with his edition of Macrobius and Censorinus. To Greek and Latin and the modern languages of southern Europe he is said to have added a knowledge of “ Oriental tongues,” but there is no e\’idence hoAv far this went, unless Ave accept as such a statement that he avrs selected in 1530 on account of this accomplishment to investigate the case of one David, a HebreAv, Avho, claiming to be of the royal house of Judah, Avished to establish himself at Venice outside of the Ghetto.@@5 But
@@@1    Both works are in the British Museum.
@@@2    “Ramusii Ariminensis Carmina,” in Quinqué Illustrium Poetarum . . . Lusus in Venereal. Girolamo’s are grossly erotic.
@@@3    The reverse is an amorphous map. The hook is in the British Museum.
@@@4    Rerum Venetarum . . . Historia, bk. xiv.
@@@5    Itamusio’s report on this Hebrew is preserved in the diaries of Marcus Sanudo, and is printed by Cigogna. It is curious. David represented himself as a prince of the Bedouin Jews who haunt the caravan-road between Damascus and Medina ; he claimed to be not only a great warrior covered with wounds but great also in the law and in the cabala, and to have been inspired by God to conduct the
Ramusio had witnessed from his boyhood the unrolling of that great series of discoveries by Portugal and Spain in East and West, and the love of geography thus kindled in him made that branch of knowledge through life his chief study and delight. He is said, with the assistance of friends touched by the same flame, to have opened a school for geography in his house at Venice. And it appears from a letter addressed to him by his friend Andrea Xavagero, that as early as 1523 the preparation of material for his great work had already begun. The task had been suggested and encouraged, as Ramusio himself states in a dedicatory epistle to the famous Girolamo Fracastoro, by that scholar, his lifelong friend ; an address to the same personage indeed introduced each of the three volumes, and in the first the writer speaks of his desire to bequeath to posterity, along with his labours, “a testimony to the long and holy friendship that had existed between the two.” They were contemporaries in the strictest sense (Ramusio 1-185-1557, Fracastorius 1483-1553). His correspondence, which was often devoted to the collection of new material for his work, was immense, and embraced many distinguished men. Among those whose names have still an odour of celebrity were Fracastoro, just mentioned, Cardinal Bembo, Damiano de Goez, and Sebastian Cabot; among lesser lights, Vettor Fausto, Daniel Barbaro, Paolo Manuzio, Andrea Xavagero, the cardinals Gasparo Contarini and Gregorio Córtese, and the printer Tommaso Giunti, editor after Ramusio’s death of the Navigationi. Before speaking more particularly of this work we may conclude the history of the family.
Paolo (Girolamo Gaspare)@@1 (1532-1600) was the only child of Gian Battista, and ־was born on 4tli July 1532. Like his father, he maintained a large correspondence with many persons of learning and note. In 1541 Francesco Contarini, procurator of St Mark’s, brought from Brussels a MS. of Yillehardouin’s History of the Conquest of Constantinople, which he presented to the Council of Ten. In 1556 they publicly ordered its translation into Latin, and gave the commission to Paolo Rannusio. His father also seems to have taken much interest in the work, for a MS. vernacular translation by him exists in the Marciana. Paolo’s book was not completed till 1573, many years after the father’s death, and was in fact a paraphrase enlarged from other sources, thus, according to Cigogna’s questionable judgment, “ converting the dry story of Ville-hardouin into an elegant (fiorita) historical work.” It was not published till 1609, nine years after Paolo’s death; nor was it ever really reprinted, though it became the subject of a singular and unintelligible forgery. For Jacopo Gaflarelli, who was sent to Venice to buy books for Richelieu, having apparently procured the “ remainder ” copies, removed the title and preliminary pages and substituted a fresh title with the date 1634, and a dedication to his master the cardinal.@@2
Girolamo Giuseppe (1555-1611), the son of Paolo, was born at Venice in 1555. He entered the public service in 1577, and was employed in connexion with various foreign missions. In 1601 he published at Lyons the French text of Villehardouin; and, besides an Italian translation of this old historian (who seems thus to have furnished occupation for three generations of Ramusios), he left behind him a Storia o Cronaca di Casa Ramusia, a folio
MS. still in St Mark’s Library. He died at Padua in 1611, and his posterity did nothing to continue the reputation of the family, official or literary.
We revert to the Navigation{ e Viaggi. Two volumes only were published during the life of Gian Battista, vol. i. in 1550, vol. iii. in 1556 ; vol. ii. did not appear till 1559, two years after his death, delayed, as his friend and printer T. Giunti explains, not only by that event hut by a fire in the printing-office (November 1557), which destroyed a part of the material which had been prepared. It had been Ramusio’s intention to publish a fourth volume, containing, as he mentions himself, documents relating to the Andes, and, as appears from one of the prefaces of Giunti, others relating to explorations towards the Antarctic.@@® Ramusio’s collection was by no means the first of the kind, though it was, and we may say on the whole continues to be, the best. Even before the invention of the press such collections were known, of which that made by a certain Long John of Ypres, abbot of St Bertin, in the latter half of the 14th century was most meritorious, and afforded in its transcription a splendid field for embellishment by the miniaturists, which was not disregarded. The best of the printed collections before Ramusio’s was the Novus Orbis, edited at Basel by Simon Grynaeus in 1532, and reissued in 1537 and 1555. This, however, can boast of no disquisitions nor of much editorial judgment. Ramusio’s collection is in these respects far superior, as well as in the variety and fulness of its matter. He spared no pains in ransacking Italy and the Spanish peninsula for contributions, and in translating them when needful into the racy Italian of his day. Several of the pieces are very rare in any other shape than that exhibited in Ramusio’s collection ; several besides ofimportance—«.g., the in valuable travels of Barbosa and Pigafetta’s account of Magellan’s voyage—were not publicly known in any complete form till the present century. Of two important articles at least the originals have never been otherwise printed or discovered ; one of these is the Summary of all the Kingdoms, Cities, and Nations from the Red Sea to China, a work translated from the Portuguese, and dating apparently from about 1535 ; the other, the remarkable Ramusian redaction of Marco Polo (q. v.). The Prefatione, Espositione, and Dicliiarazionc, which precede this version of Marco Polo’s book, are the best and amplest examples of Ramusio’s own style as an editor. They are full of good sense and of interesting remarks derived from his large reading and experience, and few pictures in words were ever touched more delightfully than that in which he sketches the return of the Polo family to their native city, as he had received it in the tradition of the Venetian elders.
There were several editions of the Kavigationi e Viaggi, and as additions continued to be made to the several volumes a good deal of bibliographical interest attaches to these various modifications.@@4  The two volumes (i. and iii.) published in Ramusio’s lifetime do not bear his name on the title-page, nor does it appear in the addresses to his friend Fracastorius with which these volumes begin (as does also the second and posthumous volume). The editions of vol. i. are as follows—1550, 1554, 1563, 1588, 1606, 1613.@@5 The edition of 1554 contains the following articles which are not in that of 1550,—(1) copious index; (2) “Narr. di un Compagno di Barbosa”; (3) “ Information! del Giapan ” ; (4) “ Alii Lettori di Giov. de Barros”; (5) “Capitoli estratti da di Barros.” The edition of 1563 adds to these a preliminary leaf concerning Ramusio, “Tommaso Giunti alii Lettori.” After 1563 there is no change in the contents of this volume, only in the title-page. It should be added that in the edition of 1554 there are three double-page woodcut maps (Africa, India, and India extra Gangern), which do not exist in the edition of 1550, and which are replaced by copper-plate maps in subsequent editions. These maps are often missing. The editions of vol. ii. are as follows—1559, 1574, 1583, 1606. There are important additions in the 1574 copy, and still further additions in that of 1583. The additions made in 1574 were—(1) “Herberstein, Della Moscovia e della Russia”; (2) “Viaggio in Persia di Caterino Zeno” ; (3) “Scoprimento dell’ Isola Frislanda, &c., per due fratelli Zeni ” ; (4) “Viaggi in Tartaria per alcuni frati Minori” ; (5) “Viaggio del Beato Odorico” (two versions). Further additions made in 1583 were—(1) “Navigatione di Seb. Cabota”; (2) at the end 90 if. with fresh pagination, containing ten articles on “ Sarmatia, Polonia, Lithuania, Prussia, Livonia, Moscovia, and the Tartars by Aless. Guagnino and Matteo di Miclieovo.” The two latest “editions” of vol. ii. are identical, i.e., from the same type, with a change of title-page only, and a reprint of the last leaf of the preface and of the last leaf of the book. But the last circumstance does not apply to all copies. In one now before the
dispersed tribes to the Holy Land and to rebuild the temple. In this view he had visited Prester John and the Jews in his kingdom, and then various European countries. David was dark in complexion, “ like an Abyssinian,” lean, dry, and Arab-like, well dressed and well attended, full of pretensions to supernatural cabalistic knowledge, and with enthusiastic ideas about his mission, whilst the Jews regarded him as a veritable Messiah.
@@@1    This person and his son affected the spelling Rannusio.
@@@2    In the British Museum.
@@@3    See in vol. iii. the end of Ramusio’s Discorso on the conquest of Peru, and Giunti’s “ Alii Lettori ” in the 3d edition of the first volume.
@@@4    Brunet’s statements on the subject are borrowed, and not quite accurate. The detail in Cigogna seems to be accurate, but it is vague as to the deficiencies of the earlier editions.
@@@8 All of these are in the British Museum.
writer, whilst the title bears 1606, the colophon bears “ Appresso i Giunti, 1583.” Vol. iii. editions are of 1556, 1565, and 1606.1  There is no practical difference between the first two, but that of 1606 has forty-five pages of important new matter, which embraces the Travels of Cesare Fedrici or Federici in India, one of the most valuable narratives of the 16th century, and Three Voyages of the Hollanders and Zealanders to Nova Zembla and Groenland. Vol. iii. also contains (omitting maps and figures inserted in the text, or with type on the reverse) a two-page topographical view of Cuzco, a folding map of Terra Nova and Labrador, a two-page map of Brazil, a two-page map of Guinea, &c., a two - page map of Sumatra, a two-page pictorial plan of the town of Hochelaga in New France, and a general map of the New World in a hemisphere. Brunet’s statement mentions issues of vol. ii. in 1561, and of vol. iii. in 1613 ; but these seem to have no existence. It would thus appear that a set of Ramusio, to be as complete as possible, should embrace—for vol. i., 1563 or any subsequent edition ; for vol. ii., 1583 or 1606 ; for vol. iii., 1606.
Besides the circumstances to he gathered from the Navigalioni regarding the Ramusio family see the iserfatoni FeiteZe of Emanuele Cigogna. Tliere is also in the British Museum Monografia letta il lit Marzo 1883 ... by Guglielmo Carradori, Rimini, 1883 ; but hardly anything has been found in this except the inscription quoted at the beginning of this article.    (H. Y.)
RANCE, Armand Jean Le Bouthillier de. See Trappists.
RANDERS, a town of Denmark, at the head of an amt in the province of North Jutland (Norrejylland), on the Gudenaa, about 8 miles above its junction with Randers Fjord, an inlet of the Cattegat. It is situated on the railway that runs south by Aarhuus to Fredericia, and has a branch line (1875) to Grenaa on the coast. Though a place of considerable antiquity—being mentioned in 1086 as the meeting-place of insurgents against Knud, the saint —Randers has few remains of old buildings and bears the stamp of a compact modern manufacturing town that owes its importance to its distilleries, dye-works, carriage-factories, salt-works, weaving-factories, tan-works, Ac. St Morten’s church dates from the 14th century, but has been frequently altered and enlarged down to 1869-70. Other buildings are the town-house (1778, restored 1858), the court-house (1860-62), the infirmary (1870), the almshouse (1868), the Jewish synagogue (1858), and the high school (1858; the institution founded by Christian III.). The population was 11,354 in 1870 and 13,457 in 1880.
Randers is best known in history as the scene of the assassination of Count Geerts by Niels Ebbeson in 1340. In the Middle Ages it had six churches and four monastic establishments—the oldest a Benedictine nunnery (1170). The Grey Friars’ building was turned into a castle (Dronningborg) after the Reformation ; its church was burned down in 1698.
RANDOLPH, John (1773-1833), of Roanoke, American statesman, was descended from an influential and wealthy Virginian family, and was the third and youngest son of John Randolph of Cawsons, Chesterfield county, where he was born on 2d June 1773. His father having died in his infancy, his early years were passed under the care of his stepfather. He attended schools at Williamsburg and Princeton and for a short time studied at Columbia College, New York, but, although well read in modern works bearing on politics and philosophy, his own statement, “ I am an ignorant man, sir,” was in other respects not inaccurate. Both his religious and his political views were radical and extreme. At an early period he imbibed deistical opinions, which he promulgated with extreme eagerness. He was also so strongly opposed to the new constitution of the United States that he could not bear to hear Washington take the oath to support it. In order to assist in asserting the right of resistance to national laws, and to withstand the “ encroachments of the administration upon the indisputable rights” of Virginia, he was in 1799 elected as a democrat to Congress, where he sat, with the exception of two terms, till 1825. After the election of Jefferson as president in 1801 Randolph was elected chairman of the committee of ways and means. He took an active part in agitating for the reform of the judiciary, and in 1804 moved the impeachment of Judge Chase. The part he took in this matter tended to widen his breach with Jefferson, from whom he finally separated in 1806. Possessing considerable wit, great readiness, and a showy if somewhat bombastic eloquence, he would undoubtedly have risen to high influence but for his strong vein of eccentricity and his bitter and ungovernable temper. The championship of State rights was carried by him to an extreme utterly quixotic, inasmuch as he not only asserted the constitutional right of Virginia to interpose her protest against the usurpation of power at Washington but claimed that the protest should be supported by force. On account of his opposition to the war with England in 1812 he was not returned to Congress in 1813, but he was re-elected in 1815. In 1825 he was elected to the United States Senate, where he continued to sit till 1827. In 1830 he was for a short time minister to Russia. He was elected to Congress in 1832, but died of consumption at Philadelphia before he took his seat, 24th May 1833. His last will was disputed in the law courts, and the jury returned a verdict that in the later years of his life he was not of sane mind.
1 All of these are in the British Museum.
Among several biographies of Randolph mention may be made of that by Hugh A. Garland, New־ York, 1850 (11th ed., 1857), and that by Henry Adams, forming vol. i. of the series of American Statesmen, edited by J. T. Morse, junior, Boston, 1883.
RANDOLPH, Thomas (1605-1634), an English poet, was born in Northamptonshire in 1605. He was educated at Westminster and Cambridge, and soon gave promise as a writer of comedy. Ben Jonson, not an easily satisfied critic, adopted him as one of his “ sons.” The ease and melody of his verse and the quickness of his wit and fancy justify the favour with which the youth was received by the magnates of literature. Unhappily he died under thirty in 1634, before his powers had reached their maturity. His principal works are—The Muses’ Looking-Glass, a Comedy ״, Amyntas, or the Impossible Dowry, a pastoral acted before the king and queen ; Aristippus, or the Jovial Philosopher״, The Conceited Pedlar; The Jealous Lovers, a Comedy; Hey for Honesty, down with Knavery, a Comedy״, and several other poems. His w־orks have recently been edited by W. Carew Hazlitt.
RANGOON TOWN, a district in the Pegu division of the province of British Burmah, situated in 16° 47' N. lat. and 96° 13' E. long., on the left bank of the Hlaing or Rangoon river at its junction ■with the Pegu and Pu-zwon-doung streams, 21 miles from the sea. In 1880 the town was detached from the surrounding area of the old district of Rangoon and constituted a separate district, the remainder of the country being formed into a distinct jurisdiction under the title of Hanthawady. The soil of Rangoon in the mountains and elevated tracts is grey sandy clay, and in the plains it is mostly alluvial mixed with earth of reddish colour, well suited for the growth of rice, vegetables, and fruit trees. The Rangoon river flows from the junction of the Panlaing and Hlaing rivers to the sea; from the sea to Rangoon it is navigable during the monsoons by vessels of the largest draught, and in the dry season by vessels of 1000 tons. Pu-zwon-doung creek empties itself into the Rangoon river at Battery Point. It is navigable during the spring tides of the southwest monsoon for cargo boats of 100 tons; near its junction with the Rangoon river is a small rock, dangerous to large vessels. The only lake of any importance is the Kandaugyi or Royal Lake within the Dalhousie Park. The chief products of the district are grains and pulses (principally rice), cotton, timber, and cutch (catechu) and gambier. Rangoon comprises an area of 22 square miles, with a population in 1881 of 134,176 (males 91,504, females 42,672); Hindus numbered 35,871, Mohammedans 21,169, Christians 9741, and Buddhists 67,131.
The town was first built in 1753 by Aloung-blioora, the founder of the Burmese monarchy. On the outbreak of the first Burmese War, in 1824, it was taken by the British, but subsequently restored to the native power. It was captured a second time in 1852 and passed along with the province of Pegu into the hands of the British. The town was destroyed by fire in 1850, and serious conflagrations occurred again in 1853 and 1855. Since the last devastation Rangoon has undergone considerable improvements; among the latest may be mentioned the construction of steam tramways in the principal thoroughfares and the establishment of a volunteer fire brigade.
RANGPUR, a district of British India, in the lieutenant-governorship of Bengal, lying between 25° 3' and 26° 19' N. lat. and 88° 47' and 89° 56' E. long., is bounded on the N. by Jalpdiguri district and Kuch Behar state, on the E. by the Brahmaputra, separating it from Goalpara and Maimansinh, on the S. by Bogra, and on the W. by Dinajpur and JalpAiguri. The district is one vast plain ; the greater part of it, particularly towards the east, is inundated during the rains, and the remainder is traversed by a network of streams which frequently break through their sandy banks and ])lough for themselves new channels over the fields. Agricultural industry has taken full advantage of the natural fertility of the soil, which is composed of a sandy loam. The river system is constituted by the Brahmaputra and its tributaries, chief of which are the Tista, Dharla, Sankos, and Dudhkumar. There are no embankments or artificial canals in the district, nor does the alluvial soil produce any minerals. The climate of Rangpur is generally malarious owing to the numerous stagnant swamps and marshes filled with decaying vegetable matter. The average annual rainfall is 86 T 4 inches. The Northern Bengal State Railway cuts through the western half of the district from north to south, with a branch to Rangpur town.
In 1881 the population was 2,097,964 (males 1,067,701, females 1,030,263); Hindus numbered 816,532, Mohammedans 1,279,605, and Christians 86. The population is for the most part rural; the only towns containing upwards of 10,000 inhabitants are Rangpur, the capital (q.v.), Barakhatta (11,393), Bliogdabari (10,892), and Dimlah (10,503). The district contains an area of 3486 square miles, Sbout three-fourths being under continuous cultivation. The staple crops are rice, wheat, and other grains, oil-seeds, and jute ; among the miscellaneous crops are indigo, sugar-cane, betel-leaf, betel-nut, and mulberry for silkworms. Spare land capable of cultivation can hardly be said to exist,—even the patches of waste land yield a valuable tribute of reeds and cane. Of industries the chief is the manufacture of paper from jute fibre ; other products are striped cotton carpets, silk cloth woven from the cocoon of a worm fed on the castor-oil plant, baskets and mats, brass-ware, and ornaments carved in ivory and buffalo horn. In 1883-84 the gross revenue of Rangpur district was £165,165, of which the land-tax contributed £102,248.
The tract comprised within the district of Rangpur was formerly the western outpost of the ancient Hindu kingdom of Kamrup. The realm appears to have attained its greatest power and prosperity under Raja Nilambhar, who was treacherously overthrown by Husain Shah, king of Bengal, at the close of the 15tli century. On the conquest of the kingdom of Bengal about 1542 by the renowned Afghan Sher Shah, subsequently emperor of Delhi, Rangpur appears to have become incorporated with the empire. During the turbulent period which followed the death of Sher Shah it threw off allegiance to Delhi, but the country was re-annexed by Akbar in 1584, though it was not completely subjugated till the time of Aurangzeb, about 1661. Rangpur passed to the East India Company in 1765 under the firman of the emperor Shah Alam. Numerous changes have since taken place in the jurisdiction, in consequence of which the district area has been much diminished.
RANGPUR, principal town and administrative headquarters of the above district, is situated on the north bank of the Ghaghat river in 25° 44' N. lat. and 89° 17' E. long., and contains a population (1881) of 13,320.
RANJiT SINGH (Runjeet Singh). See Punjab, above, p. 111.
RANKINE, William John Macquorn (1820-1872), a descendant of old Scottish families, the Rankines of Garrick and the Cochranes of Dundonald by the father’s side, and the Grahames of Dougalston by the mother’s,
was born at Edinburgh in 1820, and completed his education in its university. He was trained as an engineer under Sir J. Macneill, working chiefly on surveys, harbours, and railroads, and was appointed in 1855 to the chair of civil engineering in Glasgow, vacant by the resignation of Lewis Gordon, whose work he had undertaken during the previous session.
He was a voluminous writer on subjects directly connected with his chair, and, besides contributing almost weekly to the technical journals, such as the Engineer, brought out a series of standard text-books on Civil Engineering, The Steam-Engine and other Prime Movers, Machinery and Millwork, and Applied Mechanics. These have passed through many editions, have done more for the advancement of their subjects than any works of modern date, and are still in the very highest rank of educational works. To these must be added his elaborate treatise on Shipbuilding, Theoretical and Practical. This howr ever, corresponded ־to but one phase of Rankine’s immense energy and many-sided character. He was an enthusiastic and most useful leader of the volunteer movement from its commencement, and a writer, composer, and singer of humorous and patriotic songs, some of which, as “The Three Foot Rule” and “They never shall have Gibraltar,” became well known far beyond the circle of his acquaintance. Rankine wT as the earliest of the three founders of the modern science of Thermodynamics (q.v.) on the bases laid by Sadi Carnot and Joule respectively, and the author of the first formal treatise on the subject. His contributions to the theories of Elasticity and of Waves rank high among modern developments of mathematical physics, although they are mere units among the 150 scientific papers attached to his name in the Royal Society’s Catalogue. The more important of these have been collected and reprinted in a handsome volume (Rankine’s Scientific Papers, London, 1881), which contains a memoir of the author, written by Professor Tait. Rankine died in 1872.
RANPUR, a native state of India, in the province of Orissa in the lieutenant-governorship of Bengal, situated on the western boundary of the British district of Puri, in about 20° N. lat. and 85° 20' E. long. The southwest part of the state is a region of hills, forest clad, and almost entirely uninhabited, which wall in its wdiole western side, except at a single point, where a pass leads into the adjoining state of Nayagarh. Its population in 1881 was 36,539 (18,382 males, 18,157 females). The only town is the rfij&’s place of residence, which consists of one long and wide street.
RANUNCULUS. Familiarly known as “buttercups,” the species of this genus form the type of the order Ranunculacese. The plants are herbs, sometimes with fleshy root-fibres, or with the base of the stem dilated into a kind of tuber (R. bulbosus). They have tufted or alternate leaves, dilated into a sheath at the base and very generally, but not universally, deeply divided above. The flowers are solitary, or in loose cymes, and are remarkable for the number and distinctness (freedom from union) of their parts. Thus there are five sepals, as many petals arranged in whorls, numerous stamens, and numerous carpels arranged in spires. The petals have a little pit or gland at the base, which is interesting as foreshadowing the more fully developed tubular petals of the nearly allied genera Aconi-tum and Helleborus. The presence of all the floral organs in a free condition induced A. P. de Candolle to place Ranunculus at the head of the vegetable kingdom, but at the present time the reverse opinion holds good, and Ranunculus with its numerous separate parts is supposed to occupy a lower status than a flower in which a greater amount of consolidation and differentiation takes place. The genus is large as to number of species, which occur in
most temperate countries in the northern and southern hemispheres, and, while they extend into arctic and antarctic regions, they show little or no tendency to inhabit tropical countries except on the higher mountains. Several are natives of Great Britain, occurring in pastures, while the water-buttercups, denizens of pools and streams, vary greatly in the character of the foliage according as it is submersed, floating, or aerial, and when submersed varying in accordance with the depth and strength of the current. The ranunculus of the florist is a cultivated form of R. asiciticus, remarkable for the range of colour of the flowers (yellow to purplish black) and for the regularity with which the stamens and pistils are replaced by petals. The common or lesser celandine is the R. Ficaria of the botanist, remarkable for its tuberous root-fibres. The species are all more or less acrid.
RAOUL ROCHETTE, Désiré (1783-1854), French archaeologist, was born in 1783 at St Amand in the department of Cher, and received his education at Bourges. In 1813 he was called to the chair of history in the Collège de Louis-le-Grand at Paris. About four years afterwards he was translated to the similar chair in the Sorbonne. The first result of his labours, published in 1815 under the title of Histoire Critique de VÉtablissement des Colonies Grecques, in 4 vols. 8vo, was favourably received by the public. In 1819 he was appointed superintendent of antiquities in the Bibliothèque at. Paris, an office which he held till 1848. To this was added in 1826 the professorship of archaeology at the Bibliothèque, a result of which may be seen in his excellent Cours d'Archéologie (1828). In the following year (1829) appeared his Monuments Inédits, and if this great work is now less frequently referred to than in former years it is because the path which it indicated has been steadily followed out by others, and with more complete results than was possible in his day. A still valuable and interesting work is his Peintures Inédites (1836). So also his Peintures de Pompéi (1844) remains a splendid monument of the enterprise with which he sought to render attractive the study of archaeology. He was a frequent contributor to the Annali of the Roman Institute, the Journal des Savants, and the Académie des Inscriptions, and often engaged in disputes with his contemporaries in matters on which time has for the most part proved him to have been right. At his death in 1854 Raoul Rochette was perpetual secretary of the Academy of Fine Arts and a corresponding member of most of the learned societies in Europe.
RAOUX, Jean־, French painter, was born at Montpellier in 1677 and died at Paris in 1734. After the usual course of training he became a member of the Academy in 1717 as an historical painter. His reputation had been previously established by the credit of decorations executed during his three years in Italy on the palace of Giustiniani Solini at Venice, and by some easel paintings, the Four Ages of Man (National Gallery), commissioned by the grand prior of Vendôme. To this latter class of subject Raoux devoted himself, nor did he even paint portraits except in character. The list of his works is a long series of sets of the Seasons, of the Hours, of the Elements, or of those scenes of amusement and gallantry in the representation of which he was immeasurably surpassed by his younger rival Watteau. After his stay in England (1720) he lived much in the Temple, where he decorated several rooms. His best pupils were Chevalier and Mont-didier. His works, of which there is a poor specimen in the Louvre, were much engraved by Poilly, Moyreau, Dupuis, Ac.
See Mariette, Abecedario Arch, de F Art Français ; Dussieux, Les Artistes Français à l'Étranger ; Soulié, Musée de Versailles ; De Chennevières, Peintres provinciaux.
RAPANUI, or Easter Island (Paascheylandt, Oster-insel, île de Pâques, Ac.), the Waihu or Teapi of Cook, an island in the eastern part of the South Pacific, lying in 27° 8' S. lat. and 109° 25' W. long., 1000 miles east of Pitcairn. It is rudely triangular in shape, with its hypotenuse 12 miles long running north-east and south-west, and its three angles marked by three volcanic peaks. The coasts have no natural harbours of any importance, and landing is difficult. There is no lack of fertile soil, and the climate is moist enough to make up for the absence of running water. At one time the island would appear to have been wooded, but it now presents only a few bushes (Edwardsia, Broussonetia, Ac.), ferns, grasses, sedges, Ac. The natives keep a few goats and a large stock of domestic fowls, and the French house which now owns a large part of the island feeds about 10,000 sheep.
It is doubtful whether Rapanui (i.e., Great Rapa) was discovered by Davis in 1686, though it is sometimes marked Davis Island on our maps. Admiral Roggeveen reached it on 6th April 1722 ; in 1741 Captain Cook discovered it anew, and it has since been visited by La Pérouse (1776), Kotzebue (1816), Beasby (1826), &c. At the time of Roggeveen’s discovery the island probably contained from 1500 to 2000 inhabitants of Polynesian race, who, according to their own tradition, came from Rapa Iti (Little Rapa) or Oparo, one of the Tibuai or Austral group.
The remarkable colossal statues which give a unique archæo-logical interest to Rapanui have been described under Polynesia, vol. xix. p. 428 ; figures of them will be found in Pinart’s valuable paper in the Tour du Monde (1878, No. 927).
RAPE OIL. This important fatty oil, known also as “ sweet oil,” is obtained from seeds of cultivated varieties of the cruciferous genus Brassica, the parent form of the whole apparently being the wild navew, B. campestris (Lin.), the B. præcox of De Candolle. From the same stock, it is generally assumed, have sprung the Swedish turnip and the common turnip ; but the oil-yielding plants have developed in a special direction and are exclusively cultivated for the oil they yield. Under the general name “ rape oil ” is included the produce of several plants having distinct and fairly constant characters, and one of these oils —Colza (q.v.)—is a very well-known commercial variety. In Germany, where the production of rape oil centres, three principal oil-seeds—colza (Kohlsaat), rape, and riibsen —are well recognized. Colza is the produce of the parent stock B. campestris and is the form principally cultivated in France and Germany. Rape seed, the variety produced by B. campestris, var. napus, and riibsen seed, yielded by B. campestris, var. rapa, are extensively cultivated in the valley of the Danube and eastwards through Persia into India. These plants are principally distinguished from each other by the colour of their radicle leaves and the form of inflorescence, but also by the size and appearance of the small ovoid seeds. The seed of the colza is ruddy brown, rape is blue-black, and riibsen is almost black in colour. It has been found that 1000 seeds of colza weigh 293־ grains, the same number of riibsen weighing 345־ grains and of rape 7175־ grains. Each, of these plants has summer and winter, or annual and biennial, varieties ; and as there are numerous intermediate forms in cultivation the varieties merge into each other.
The oil yielded by these seeds is, in physical and chemical properties, practically the same, the range of fluctuations not being greater than would be found in the oil of any specific seed under similar varying conditions of production. Colza seed is, in general, the richest in oil, and the winter varieties of all the seeds are more productive than the summer varieties. In summer rape and riibsen the proportion of oil averages from 30 to 35 per cent., the winter seeds have from 35 to 40, and winter colza contains from 40 to 45 per cent. Newly pressed rape oil has a dark sherry colour with, at first, scarcely any perceptible smell ; but after resting a short time the oil deposits an
abundant mucilaginous slime, and by taking up oxygen it acquires a peculiar disagreeable odour and an acrid taste. Refined by the ordinary processes (see Oils, vol. xvii. p. 743), the oil assumes a clear golden yellow colour. In specific gravity it ranges between 09112־ and 09117־ in the raw state, and from 09127־ to 09136־ when refined; the solidifying point is from - 2° to - 10’ C. Rape oil consists of a mixture of three simple fats or glycerides of fatty acids—the glyceride of oleic acid (olein), of stearic acid (stearin), and of brassic acid, the latter being a fat found hitherto only in oils from the Crucifei'se and from grape seeds. The olein of rape oil differs from ordinary olein in not yielding sebacylic acid on destructive distillation.
The principal uses of rape oil are for lubrication and lighting; but since the introduction of mineral oils for both these purposes the importance of rape has considerably decreased. It is but little employed in soap-making, as it saponifies with difficulty and yields only an indifferent product. In Germany it is very considerably used as a salad oil under the name of Schmalzöl, being for that purpose freed from its biting taste by being mixed with starch, heated till the starch is carbonized, and filtered after the oil has cooled. The offensive taste of rape oil may also be removed by treatment with a small proportion of sweet spirit of nitre (nitrous ether). In the East Indies rape oil and its equivalents, known under various names, are the most important of oils for native use. They are largely consumed as food instead of ghi under the name of “ metali ” or sweet oil, but for all other purposes the same sub-stance is known as “kurwah” or bitter oil. Most natives prefer it for the preparation of their curries and other hot dishes. Rape oil is the subject of extensive adulteration, principally with the cheaper hemp oil, rosin oil, and mineral oils. These sophistications can be most conveniently detected, first by taste and next by saponifica-tion, rosin oil and mineral oil remaining unsaponified, hemp oil giving a greenish soap, while rape oil yields a soap with a yellow tinge. With concentrated sulphuric acid, fuming nitric acid, nitrous acid, and other reagents rape oil gives also characteristic colorations ; but these are modified according to the degree of purity of the oil itself. The presence of sulphur in rape and other cruciferous oils also affords a ready means for their identification. Lead plaster (emplastrum lithargyri) boiled in rape oil dissolves, and, sulphide of lead being formed, the oil becomes brown or black. Other lead compounds give the same black coloration from the formation of sulphide.
RAPHAEL (רפאל, “ God heals ”) first appears in litera-ture in the book of Tobit, where in human disguise and under the name of Azarias (“ God helps ”) he accompanies Tobias in his adventurous journey and conquers the demon Asmodaeus. He is said to be “one of the seven angels [archangels] who present the prayers of the saints and enter into the presence of the glory of the Holy One.” In the book of Enoch Raphael is the angel of the spirits of man, and it is his business to gather the souls of the dead in the place where they are reserved till the day of judg-ment,—a conception which seems to imply a derivation from רפאים, “ghosts.” In later Midrash Raphael appears as the angel commissioned to put down the evil spirits that vexed the sons of Noah with plagues and sicknesses after the flood, and he it was who taught men the use of simples and furnished materials for the “Book of Noah,” the earliest treatise on materia medica (Rönsch, Buch der Jubiläen, p. 385 sq.).
RAPHAEL (1483-1520). Raphael Sanzio was the son of Giovanni Santi, a painter of some repute in the ducal city of Urbino, situated among the Apennines on the borders of Tuscany and Umbria.@@1 For many years both before and after the birth of Raphael the city of Urbino was one of the chief centres in Italy of intellectual and artistic activity, thanks to its highly cultured rulers, Duke Federigo II. of Montefeltro and his son Guidobaldo, who succeeded him in 1482,@@2 the year before Raphael was born. The ducal
residence of Urbino, built by Federigo II., even now one of the most magnificent palaces in Italy, was lavishly adorned with works of art of every class—frescos, panel-pictures, tapestries, tarsia-work, stucco-reliefs, and sculpture—executed for the duke by some of the chief Italian artists of his time, and contained a collection of oil-paintings by the Van Eycks and other celebrated Flemish painters. Giovanni Santi was a welcome guest at this miniature but splendid court, and the rich treasures which the palace contained, familiar to Raphael from his earliest years, were a very important item among the various influences which formed and fostered his early love for art. It may not perhaps be purely fanciful to trace Raphael’s boyish admiration of the oil-paintings of Jan Van Eyck and Justus of Ghent in the miniature-like care and delicacy with which some of his earliest works, such as the Knight’s Dream, were executed.
Though Raphael lost his father at the age of eleven, yet to him he certainly owed a great part of that early training which enabled him to produce paintings of apparently mature beauty when he was scarcely twenty years of age. From his father, too, Raphael learned much of the religious sentiment and grace of motive which are specially conspicuous in his earlier paintings. The altar-piece painted by Giovanni for the church of Gradara, and a fresco, now preserved in the Santi house@@3 at Urbino, are clearly prototypes of some of Raphael’s most graceful paintings of the Madonna and Child. On the death of his father in 1494 young Raphael was left in the care of his stepmother (his own mother, Magia Ciarla, having died in 1491) and of his uncle, a priest called Bartolomeo.@@4
First or Perugian Period.—In what year Raphael was apprenticed to Perugino and how the interval before that was spent are matters of doubt. Vasari’s statement that he was sent to Perugia during his father’s lifetime is certainly a mistake. On the whole it appears most probable that he did not enter Perugino’s studio till the end of 1499, as during the four or five years before that Perugino was mostly absent from his native city.@@5 As was the case with every one with whom Raphael came in contact, the Perugian master was fascinated by the charm of his manner and delighted by his precocious ability, and seems to have devoted special pains to his artistic education. The so-called Sketch Book of Raphael in the academy of Venice contains studies apparently from the cartoons of some of Perugino’s Sistine frescos, possibly done as practice in drawing.
This celebrated collection of thirty drawings, now framed or preserved in portfolios, bears signs of having once formed a bound book, and has been supposed to be a sketch-book filled by Raphael during his Perugian apprenticeship. Many points, however, make this tempting hypothesis very improbable ; the fact that the drawings were not all originally on leaves of the same size, and the miscellaneous character of the sketches—varying much both in style and merit of execution—seem to show that it is a collection of studies by different hands, made and bound together by some subsequent owner, and may contain but very few drawings by Raphael himself.@@6
Before long Raphael appears to have been admitted to take a share in the execution of paintings by his master;
@@@1 See Pungileoni, Elogio Storico di Raffaello, Urbino, 1829 ; for a valuable account of Raphael’s family and his early life, see also Id., Vita di Giov. Santi, Urbino, 1822, and Cam pori, Notizie e Documenti per la Vita di Giov. Santi e di Raffaello, Modena, 1870. f @@@2 See an interesting account of the court of Urbino by Delaborde, Etudes sur les R. Arts . . . en Italie, Paris, 1864, vol. i. p. 145.
@@@3    The house of Giovanni Santi, where Raphael was bom, still exists at Urbino in the Contrada del Monte, and, being the property of the municipality, is now safe from destruction.
@@@4    The administration of Giovanni Santi’s will occasioned many painful family disputes and even appeals to law ; see Pungileoni, El. Stor. di Raffaello.
@@@8 Crowe and Cavalcaselle (Life of Raphael, vol. i., London, 1882) adopt the notion that Raphael went to Perugia in 1495, but the reasons with which they support this view appear insufficient.
@@@6 See an excellent critical examination of the Sketch Book by Morelli, Italian Masters in German Galleries, translated by Mrs Richter, London, 1882 ; according to this able critic, only two drawings are by Raphael. See also Sclimarsow, “Raphael’s Skizzenbuch in Venedig,” in Preussische Jahrbiicher, xlviii. pp. 122-149, Berlin, 1881, who takes the opposite view. Kahl, Das venezianische Skizzenbuch, Leipsic, 1882, follows Morelli’s opinion.
and his touch can with more or less certainty be traced in some of Perugino’s panels which were executed about 1502. Many of those who, like Messrs Crowe and Cavalcasene, adopt the earlier date of Raphael’s apprenticeship believe that his hand is visible in the execution of the beautiful series of frescos by Perugino in the Sala del Cambio, dated 1500 ; as does also M. Muntz in his excellent Raphael, sa Vie, Paris, 1881, in spite of his accepting the end of 1499 as the period of Raphael’s first entering Perugino’s studio,—two statements almost impossible to reconcile. Considering that Raphael was barely seventeen when these frescos were painted, it is hardly reasonable to attribute the finest heads to his hand ; nor did he at an early age master the difficulties of fresco buono. The Resurrection of Christ in the Vatican and the Diotalevi Madonna in the Berlin Museum are the principal pictures by Perugino in parts of which the touch of Raphael appears to be visible, though any real certainty on this point is unattainable.@@1
About 1502 Raphael began to execute independent works ; four pictures for churches at Città di Castello were probably the earliest of these, and appear to have been painted in the years 1502-4. The first is a guild-banner painted on one side with the Trinity, and below, kneeling figures of S. Sebastian and S. Rocco ; on the reverse is a Creation of Eve, very like Perugino in style, but possessing more grace and breadth of treatment. These are still in the church of S. Trinità.@@2 Also for Città di Castello were the coronation of S. Niccolo Tolentino, now destroyed, though studies for it exist at Oxford and Lille (Gaz. d. B. Arts, 1878, i. p. 48), and the Crucifixion, now in the Dudley collection, painted for the church of S. Domenico, and signed RAPHAEL VRBINAS P. It is a panel 8 feet 6 inches high by 5 feet 5 inches wide, and contains noble figures of the Virgin, St John, St Jerome, and St Mary Magdalene. The fourth painting executed for this town, for the church of S. Francesco, is the exquisitely beautiful and highly finished Sposalizio, now in the Brera at Milan, signed and dated RAPHAEL VRBINAS MDIIII. This is closely copied both in composition and detail from Perugino’s painting of the same subject now at Caen, but is far superior to it in sweetness of expression and grace of attitude. The Temple of Jerusalem, a domed octagon with outer ambulatory in Perugino’s picture, is reproduced with slight alterations by Raphael, and the attitudes and grouping of the figures are almost exactly the same in both. The Connestabile Madonna is one of Raphael’s finest works, painted during his Perugian period ; it is a round panel ; the motive, the Virgin reading a book of hours, is a favourite one with him, as it was with his father Giovanni. This lovely picture was lost to Perugia in 1871, when Count Connestabile sold it to the emperor of Russia for ¿613,200.
Second or Florentine Period, 150J/.-1508.—From 1504 to 1508 Raphael’s life was very stirring and active. In the first half of 1504 he visited Urbino, where he painted two small panels for Duke Guidobaldo, the St George and the St Michael of the Louvre. His first and for him momentous visit to Florence was made towards the end of 1504, when he presented himself with a warm letter of recommendation @@3 from his patroness Joanna della Rovere
to the gonfaloniere Pier Soderini. In Florence Raphael was kindly received, and, in spite of his youth (being barely of age), was welcomed as an equal by the majority of those great artists who at that time had raised Florence to a pitch of artistic celebrity far above all other cities of the world. At the time of his arrival the whole of artistic Italy was being excited to enthusiasm by the cartoons of the battle of Anghiari and the war with Pisa, on which Da Vinci and Michelangelo were then devoting their utmost energies (see Leonardo and Michelangelo). To describe the various influences under which Raphael came and the many sources from which he drank in stores of artistic knowledge would be to give a complete history of Florentine art in the 15th century.@@4 With astonishing rapidity he shook off the mannerisms of Perugino, and put one great artist after another under contribution for some special power of drawing, beauty of colour, or grace of composition in which each happened to excel. Nor was it from painters only that Raphael acquired his enlarged field of knowledge and rapidly growing powers. Sculptors like Ghiberti and Donatello must be numbered among those whose works helped to develop his new-born style.@@5  The Carmine frescos of Masaccio and Masolino taught this eager student long-remembered lessons of methods of dramatic expression.@@6 Among his contemporaries it was especially Signorelli and Michelangelo who taught him the importance of precision of line and the necessity of a thorough knowledge of the human form.@@7 From Da Vinci he learned subtleties of modelling and soft beauty of expression,@@8 from Fra Bartolomeo nobility of composition and skilful treatment of drapery in dignified folds.@@9  The friendship between Raphael and the last of these was very close and lasted for many years. The architect Baccio d’Agnolo was another of his special friends, at whose house the young painter enjoyed social intercourse with a large circle of the chief artists of Florence, and probably learned from him much that was afterwards useful in his practice as an architect.
The transition in Raphael’s style from his first or Perugian to his second or Florentine manner is well shown in the large picture of the Coronation of the Virgin painted for Maddalena degli Oddi, now in the Vatican, one of the most beautiful that he ever produced, and especially remarkable for its strong religious sentiment,—in this respect a great contrast to the paintings of his last or Roman manner which hang near it. The exquisite grace of the angel musicians and the beauty of the faces show signs of his short visit to Florence, while the general formality of the composition and certain details, such as the fluttering ribbands of the angels, recall peculiarities of Perugino and of Pinturicchio, with whose fine picture of the same subject hung close by it is interesting to compare it. Raphael’s painting, though by far the more beautiful of the two, is yet inferior to that of Pinturicchio in the composition of the whole; an awkward horizontal line divides the upper group of the Coronation from that below, the apostles standing round the Virgin’s tomb, filled with roses and lilies (Dante, Par., xxiii. 73), while the older Perugian has skilfully united the two groups by a less formal arrangement of the figures. The predella of this masterpiece of Raphael is also in the Vatican; some of
@@@1    Parts of Perugino’s beautiful triptych of the Madonna, with the archangels Raphael and Michael, painted for the Certosa near Pavia and now in the National Gallery of London, have been attributed to Raphael, but with little reason. Perugino’s grand altar-piece at Florence of the Assumption of the Virgin shows that he was quite capable of painting figures equal in beauty and delicacy to the St Michael of the Certosa triptych. See Frizzoni, L'Arte Italiana nella Gal. Nat. di Londra, Florence, 1880.
@@@2    For an account of processional banners painted by distinguished artists, see Mariotti, Lettere pittoriche Perugine, p. 76 sq.
@@@3    This letter, which still exists, was sold in Paris in 1856, and is now in private hands.
@@@4    See Minghetti, “I Maestri di Raffaello,” in the Nuava Antologia, 1st August 1881.
@@@5    See his sketch of St George and the Dragon in the Uffizi, largely taken from Donatello’s pedestal relief outside Or San Michele.
@@@6    See his cartoon of St Paul preaching at Athens (South Kensington Museum).
@@@7    See many of his life-studies, especially the one he sent to Albert Dürer, now at Vienna.
@@@8    See the portrait of Maddalena Doni in the Pitti.
@@@9    See the Madonna del Baldacchino in the Pitti.
its small paintings, especially that of the Annunciation to the Virgin, are interesting as showing his careful study of the rules of perspective.@@1 Several preparatory sketches for this picture exist : fig. 1 shows a study, now at Lille, for the two principal figures,
Christ setting the crown on His mother’s head (see fig. 2). It is drawn from two youths in the ordinary dress of the time; and it is interesting to compare it with his later studies from the nude, many of which are for figures which in the future picture were to be draped, made at a time when his developed style required a more careful rendering of the human form than was necessary for the simpler and more religious manner of Perugia. It was at Florence, as Vasari says, that Raphael began
serious life studies, not only from nude models but also by making careful anatomical drawings from dissected corpses and from skeletons.
His first visit to Florence lasted only a few months; in 1505 he was again in Perugia painting his first fresco, the Trinity and Saints for the Camaldoli monks of San Severo, now a mere wreck from injury and restorations. The date MDV and the signature were added later, probably in 1521. Part of this work was left incomplete by the painter, and the fresco was finished in 1521 (after his
death) by his old master Perugino.@@2 It was probably earlier than this that Raphael visited Siena and assisted Pinturicchio with sketches for his Piccolomini frescos.@@3  The Madonna of S. Antonio was also finished in 1505, but was probably begun before the Florentine visit.@@4 A record of his visit to Siena exists in a sketch of the antique marble group of the Three Graces, then in the cathedral library, from which, not long afterwards, he painted the small panel of the same subject now in Lord Dudley’s collection.
In 1506 Raphael was again in Urbino, where he painted for the duke another picture of St George, which was sent to England as a present to Henry VII. The bearer of this and other gifts was Guidobaldo’s ambassador, the accomplished Baldassare Castiglione (q.v.), a friend of Raphael’s, whose noble portrait of him is in the Louvre. At the court of Duke Guidobaldo the painter’s ideas appear to have been led into a more secular direction, and to this stay in Urbino probably belong the Dudley Graces, the miniature Knight’s Dream of Duty and Pleasure in the National Gallery (London),@@5 and also the Apollo and Marsyas, sold in 1882 by Mr Morris Moore to the Louvre for ¿10,000, a most lovely little panel, painted with almost Flemish minuteness, rich in colour, and graceful in arrangement.@@6
Towards the end of 1506 Raphael returned to Florence, and there (before 1508) produced a large number of his finest works, carefully finished, and for the most part wholly the work of his own hand. Several of these are signed and dated, but the date is frequently very doubtful, owing to his custom of using Roman numerals, introduced among the sham Arabic embroidered on the borders of dresses, so that the I’s after the V are not always distinguishable from the straight lines of the ornament. The following is a list of some of his chief paintings of this period:—the Madonna del Gran Duca (Pitti); Madonna del Giardino, 1506 (Vienna); Holy Family with the Lamb,
1506    or 1507 (Madrid); the Ansidei Madonna, 1506 or
1507    (National Gallery); theBorghese Entombment, 1507; Lord Cowper’s Madonna at Panslianger, 1508; La bella Giardiniera, 1508 (Louvre); the Eszterhazy Madonna, probably the same year; as well as the Madonna del Cardellino (Uffizi), the Tempi Madonna (Munich), the Colonna Madonna (Berlin), the Bridgewr ater Madonna (Bridgewater House), and the Orleans Madonna (Due d’Aumale’s collection). The Ansidei Madonna was bought in 1884 for the National Gallery from the duke of Marlborough for £70,000, more than three times the highest price ever before given for a picture.@@7 It was painted for the Ansidei
@@@1 While at Florence he is said to have taught the science of perspective to his friend Fra Bartolomeo, who certainly gave his young instructor valuable lessons on composition in return.
@@@2    The fresco of the Last Supper, dated 1505, in the refectory of S. Onofrio at Florence is not now claimed as a work of Raphael’s, in spite of a signature partly introduced by the restorer.
@@@3    Raphael probably had no hand in the actual execution of the paintings ; see Sehmarsow, Raphael und Rinturicchio in Siena, Stuttgart, 1880, and Milanesi, in bis edition of Vasari, iii. p. 515 sq., appendix to life of Pinturicchio.
@@@4    This fine altar-piece, with many large figures, is now the property of the heirs of the duke of Ripalta, and is stored in the basement of the National Gallery, London.
@@@5    This missal-like painting is about 7 inches square ; it was bought in 1847 for 1000 guineas. The National Gallery also possesses its cartoon, in brown ink, pricked for transference.
@@@6    In spite of some adverse opinions, frequently expressed with ex ■ treme virulence, the genuineness of this little gem can hardly be doubted by any one who carefully studies it without bias. Sketches for it at Venice and in the Uffìzi also appear to bear the impress of Raphael’s manner. See Delaborde, Études sur les B. Arts ... en Italie, i. p. 236; Gruyer, Raphaël et VAntiquité, ii. p. 421 ; Eitelberger, Rafael's Apollo und Marsyas, Vienna, 1860 ; Batté, Le Raphaël de M. Moore, Paris, 1859 ; and also various pamphlets on it by its former owner, Mr Morris Moore.
@@@7    It is engraved at p. 53, voi. ii., of Dohme, Kunstund Künstler des Mittdalters, Leipsic, 1878, a work which has many good reproductions of Raphael’s paintings and sketches.
family of Perugia as an altar-piece in the church of S. Fiorenzo, and is a work of the highest beauty in colour, well preserved, and very large in scale. The Virgin with veiled head is seated on a throne, supporting the Infant with one hand and holding a book in the other. Below stands S. Niccolo da Tolentino, for whose altar it was painted · he holds a book and a crozier, and is clad in jewelled mitre and green cope, under which appear the alb and cassock. On the other side is the Baptist, in red mantle and camel’s-hair tunic, holding a crystal cross. The rich jewellery in this picture is painted with Flemish-like minuteness. On the border of the Virgin’s robe is a date, formerly read as MDV by Passavant and others; it really is MDVI or MDVII. If the later date is the true one, the picture was probably begun a year or two before. A favourite method of grouping his Holy Families is that seen in the Madonna del Cardellino and the Bella Giar-diniera, in which the main lines form a pyramid. This arrangement is also used in the Madonna del Giardino and in the larger group, including St Joseph and St Elizabeth, known as the Canigiani Holy Family, now at Munich, one of the least graceful of all Raphael’s compositions. The Entombment of Christ, now in the Palazzo Borghese in Rome, was painted during a visit to Perugia in 1507 for Lady Atalanta Baglioni, in memory of the death of her brave and handsome but treacherous son Grifonetto, who was killed in 1500 by his enemies the Oddi party.@@1 The many studies and preliminary sketches @@2 for this important picture which exist in various collections show that it cost Raphael an unusual amount of thought and labour in its composition, and yet it is quite one of his least successful paintings, especially in colour. It is, however, much injured by scraping and repainting, and appears not to be wholly by his hand. The Madonna del Baldacchino, one of the finest compositions of the Florentine period, owing much to Fra Bartolomeo, is also unsatisfactory in execution; being left unfinished by Raphael, it was completed by Ridolfo Ghirlandajo, by whom the ungraceful angels of the upper part and the canopy were wholly executed, and even designed. It was painted for the Dei family as an altar-piece for their chapel in S. Spirito, Florence. The St Catherine of the National Gallery was probably painted in 1507 ; its cartoon, pricked for transference, is in the Louvre. In colouring it much resembles parts of the Borghese Entombment, being quiet and grey in tone. To the Florentine period belong some of his finest portraits, and it is especially in these that Da Vinci’s influence appears. The portraits of Angelo Doni and his wife Maddalena (Pitti) are vivid and carefully executed paintings, and the unknown lady with hard features (now in the Uffizi) is a masterpiece of noble realism and conscientious finish. The Czartoriski portrait, a graceful effeminate-looking youth with long hair and tapering hands, now moved to Cracow, is probably a work of this period; though worthy to rank with Raphael’s finest portraits, its authenticity has been doubted. Very similar in style is the Herrenhausen portrait, once attributed to Giovanni Bellini, but an undoubted work of Raphael, in his second manner; it also represents a young man with long hair, close shaven chin, a wide cloth hat and black dress, painted in half length. The so-called Portrait of Raphael by himself at Hampton Court is a very beautiful work, glowing with light and colour, which may possibly be a genuine picture of about 1506. It represents a pleasant-looking youth with turned-up nose, not bearing the remotest resemblance to Raphael, except the long hair and black cap common to nearly all the portraits of this time.@@3 A fine but much-restored portrait of Raphael by himself, painted at Florence, exists in the Uffizi; it represents him at a very early age, and was probably painted during the early part of his stay in Florence.
Third or Roman Period, 1508-20.—In 1508 Raphael was painting several important pictures in Florence; in September of that year we find him settled in Rome, from a letter addressed in the warmest terms of affectionate admiration to Francia, to whom he sent a sketch for his Adoration of the Shepherds, and promised to send his own portrait in return for that which Francia had given him.@@4  Raphael was invited to Rome by his fellow-citizen (not relation, as Vasari says) Bramante, who was then occupied in the erection of the new church of St Peter’s, the foundation-stone of which had been laid by Julius II. on 18th April 1506. At this time the love of the popes for art had already attracted to Rome a number of the chief artists of Tuscany, Umbria, and North Italy, among whom were Michelangelo, Signorelli, Perugino, Pinturicchio, Lorenzo Lotto, Peruzzi, Sodoma, and many others, and it was among this brilliant assembly that Raphael, almost at once, took a leading position.@@5 Thanks to Bramante’s friendly intervention, Julius II. (Della Rovere) soon became Raphael’s most zealous patron and friend, as did also the rich bankers Agostino Chigi (the Rothschild of his time) and Bindo Altoviti, whose portrait, at the age of twenty, now at Munich, is one of the most beautiful that Raphael ever produced.
A series of rooms in the Vatican, over the Appartamenti Borgia, were already decorated with frescos by Bonfigli, Perugino, Piero della Francesca, Andrea del Castagno, Signorelli, and Sodoma; but so rapidly had the taste of the time changed that Julius II. decided to sweep them
all away and re-cover the walls with paintings in the more developed but less truly decorative style of Raphael. It was not without regret that Raphael saw the destruction of this noble series of frescos. One vault, that of the
@@@1 See Symonds, Sketches in Italy, the chapter on Perugia, mainly taken from the contemporary chronicle of Matarazzo.
@@@2 These show that Raphael at first intended to paint a Deposition from the Cross, and afterwards altered his scheme into the Entombment ; an excess of study and elaboration partly account for the shortcomings of this picture.
@@@3    To judge of the authorship of a portrait from internal evidence is especially difficult, as in so many cases the strong individuality of the person represented obscures that of the painter.
@@@4    Maivasia, Felsina pittrice, Bologna, 1678, was the first to publish this letter; see also Müntz, Raphael, sa Vie, kc., p. 815, Paris, 1881. Minghetti (Nuova Antologia, 1883) throws doubt on the date of this letter.
@@@5    Müntz, “Michel-Ange et Raphael ä la cour de Rome,” Gaz. des B. Arts, March and April 1882, and Les Arts d la cour des Papes, voL iii., Paris, 1884.
Stanza dell’ Incendio, painted by his master Perugino, he saved from obliteration; it still exists, well preserved, a most skilful piece of decorative work ; and he also set his pupils to copy a number of portrait-heads in the frescos of Piero della Francesca before they were destroyed.@@1  Fig. 3 shows the positions of Raphael’s frescos in the stanze, which, both from their size and method of lighting, are very unsuited for the reception of these large pictures. The two most important rooms (A and B) are small, and have an awkward cross light from opposite windows.@@2
Stanza della Segnatura (papal signature room), painted in 1509-11 (A on fig. 3). The first painting executed by Raphael in the stanze was the so-called Disputa, finished in 1509. It is very unlike the later oues in style, showing the commencement of transition from his Florentine to his “Roman manner”; as a »decorative work it is very superior to the other frescos ; the figures are much smaller in scale, as was suited to the very moderate size of the room, and the whole is arranged mainly on one plane, without those strong effects of perspective which are so unsuited to the decorative treatment of a wall-surface. In its religious sentiment too it far excels any of the later stanze paintings, retaining much of the sacred character of earlier Florentine and Umbrian art. As a scheme of decoration it appears to have been suggested by some of the early apsidal mosaics.
Fig. 4 shows the disposition of its main masses, which seem to indicate the curved recess of an apse. Gold is largely used, with much richness of effect, while the later purely pictorial frescos have little or none.
The subject of this magnificent painting is the hierarchy of the church on earth and its glory in heaven.@@3 The angels in the upper tier and the nude cherubs who carry the books of the Gospels are among the most beautiful figures that Raphael ever painted.
The painting on the vault of this room is the next in date, and shows further transition towards the “Roman manner.” In his treatment of the whole Raphael has, with much advantage, been partly guided by the painting of Perugino’s vault in the next room (C). Though not without faults, it is a very skilful piece of decoration ; the pictures are kept subordinate to the lines of the vault, and their small scale adds greatly to the apparent size of the whole. A great part of the ground is gilt, marked with mosaiclike squares, a common practice with decorative painters,—not intended to deceive the eye, but simply to give a softer texture to the gilt surface by breaking up its otherwise monotonous glare. The principal medallions in each cell of this quadripartite vault are very graceful female figures, representing Theology, Science, Justice, and Poetry. Smaller subjects, some almost miniature-like in scale, are arranged in the intermediate spaces, and each has some special meaning in reference to the medallion it adjoins ; some of these are painted in warm monochrome to suggest bas-reliefs. The fine painting of the Flaying of Marsyas is interesting as showing Raphael’s study of antique sculpture: the figure of Marsyas is a copy of a Roman statue, of which several replicas exist. The very beautiful little picture of the Temptation of Eve recalls Albert Diirer’s treatment of that subject, though only vaguely. Much mutual admiration existed between Raphael and Diirer: in 1515 Raphael sent the German artist a most masterly life study of two nude male figures (now at Vienna); on it is written in Albert Diirer’s beautiful hand the date and a record of its being a gift from Raphael. It is executed in red chalk, and was a study for two figures in the Battle of Ostia (see below).
On the wall opposite the Disputa is the so-called School of Athens.@@4 In this and the succeeding frescos all notion of decorative treatment is thrown aside, and Raphael has simply painted a magnificent series of paintings, treated as easel pictures might have been, with but little reference to their architectural surroundings.@@5 The subject of this noble fresco, in contrast to that opposite,
is Earthly Knowledge, represented by an assembly of those great philosophers, poets, and men of science of ancient Greece who were admitted by the church to have been not wholly without inspiration from Heaven, and by their labours to have prepared the way for the clearer light of Christianity. The central figures are Plato and Aristotle, while below and on each side are groups arranged with the most consummate skill, including the whole “ filosofica famiglia” of Dante {Infer., iv. 133-144), and a number of other leaders of thought, selected in a way that shows no slight acquaintance with the history of philosophy and science among the ancient Greeks. In this selection we may fairly suppose that Raphael was aided by Bembo, Ariosto,@@6 Castiglione, Bibbiena, or others of the crowd of scholars who at this time thronged the papal court. Many interesting portraits are introduced—Bramante as the aged Archimedes, stooping over a geometrical diagram ; a beautiful fairhaired youth on the left is Francesco Maria della Rovere, duke of Urbino ; and on the extreme right figures of Raphael himself and Perugino are introduced (see fig. 5, below). The stately building in which these groups are arranged is taken with modifications from Bramaute’s first design for St Peter’s.
Over the window (No. 6 on fig. 3) is a group of poets and musicians on Mount Parnassus, round a central figure of Apollo ; it contains many heads of great beauty and fine portraits of Dante and Petrarch. The former, as a theologian, appears also in the Disputa. Over the opposite window (No. 5) are graceful figures of the three chief Virtues, and at one side (No. 4) Gregory IX. (a portrait of Julius II.) presenting his volume of decretals to a jurist; beside him is a splendid portrait of Cardinal de’ Medici (afterwards Leo X.) before his face was spoiled by getting too stout. This painting shows the influence of Melozzo da Forli.@@7 On the other side Justinian presents his code to Trebonianus (No. 3); this is inferior in execution and appears to have been chiefly painted by pupils.
The next room (B), called La Stanza d’Eliodoro, was painted in 1511-14 ;@@8 it is so called from the fresco (No. 7 in fig. 3) representing the expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple (2 Macc. iii.), an allusion to the struggles between Louis XII. of France and Julius II. The whole spirit of the subjects in this room is less broad and tolerant than in the first: no pagan ideas are admitted, and its chief motive is the glorification of the pontificate, with insistence on the temporal power. The main incident of this picture is the least successful part of it: the angel visitant on the horse is wanting in dignity, and the animal is poorly drawn, as is also the case with the horses of Attila’s army in the fresco opposite. The group of women and children on the left is, however, very beautiful, and the figures of Julius II. and his attendants are most nobly designed and painted with great vigour. The tall standing figure of Marc Antonio Raimondi, as one of the pope’s bearers, is a marvellous piece of portrait painting, as is also the next figure who bears his name on a scroll—10 . RETRO . DE . FOLIARIIS . CREMONEN. Behind, Giulio Romano is represented as another papal attendant. This picture was completed in 1512. Over the window (No. 8) is the scene of the Miracle at Bolsena of 1264, when the real presence was proved to a doubting priest by the appearance of blood-stains on the Corporal (see Orvieto). Julius II. is introduced kneeling behind the altar ; and the lower spaces on each side of the windows are filled with two groups, that on the left with women, that on the right with officers of the papal guard. The last group is one of the most masterly of all throughout the stanze: each face, a careful portrait, is a marvel of expression and power, and the technical skill with which the whole is painted to the utmost degree of finish, almost without any tempera touches, is most wonderful. The next fresco in date (No. 10) is that of the Repulsion of Attila from the walls of Rome by Leo I., miraculously aided by the apparitions of St Peter and St Paul; it contains another allusion to the papal quarrels with France. It was begun in the lifetime of Julius II., but was only half finished at the time of his death in 1513 ; thus it happens that the portrait of his successor, the Medici pope Leo X., appears twice over, first as a cardinal riding behind the pope, painted before the death of Julius II., and again in the character of S. Leo, instead of the portrait of Julius which Raphael was about to paint.@@9 Attila with his savage-looking army is not the most successful part of the fresco : the horses are very wooden in appearance, and the tight-fitting scale armour, put on in some impossible way without any joints, gives a very unreal and theatrical look to the picture. Part is the work of pupils. In 1514 he painted the Deliverance of St Feter from Prison, with
@@@1    How fine these portrait-heads probably were may be guessed from Piero’s magnificent frescos at Arezzo, in the retro-choir of 8. Francesco.
@@@2    See Brunn, Die Composition der Wandgemälde Raphaels im Vatican, Berlin, and Gruyer, Les Fresgues de Raphaël au Vatican, Paris, 1859.
@@@3    It need hardly be said that the name Disputa is a misnomer ; there could be no dispute among the saints and doctors or the church about so well established a dogma as the real presence : the monstrance with the Host below and the figure of Christ above indicate His double presence both on earth and in heaven. Dr Braun, Springer, and Hagen have published monographs in German on this painting.
@@@4    See Trendelenburg, lieber Rafael’s Schule von Athen, Berlin, 1843, and Richter (same title), Heidelberg, 1882; the title “School of Athens” is comparatively modern.
@@@5    He has shown great skill in the way in which he has fitted his end frescos into the awkward spaces cut into by the windows, but they are none the less treated in a purely pictorial manner.
@@@6    Ariosto visited Rome twice about this time, as ambassador from the duke of Ferrara to Julius II.,—the first time in 1509.
@@@7    Compare his fresco of Sixtus IV., now in the picture-gallery of the Vatican.
@@@8    The vault of this room is painted with scenes from the Old Testament on a harsh blue ground, much restored ; they are probably the work of Giulio Romano, and in a decorative way are very unsuccessful,—a striking contrast to the beautiful vaults of Perugino and Raphael in rooms C and A. The deep blue grounds so much used by Raphael’s school are very liable to injury from damp, and in most cases have been coarsely restored. Those in the Villa Madama are untouched, and in parts the damp has changed the ultra-marine into emerald green.
@@@8 A pen sketch in the Louvre by Raphael shows Julius II. in the place afterwards occupied by Leo X. ; another difference in this sketch is that the pope is borne in a chair, not on horseback as in the fresco.
a further political allusion (No. 9). It is very skilfully arranged to fit in the awkward space round the window, and is remarkable for an attempt, not much suited for fresco-painting, to combine and contrast the three different qualities of light coming from the moon, the glory round the angel, and the torches of the sentinels.
For room C Raphael designed and partly painted the Incendio del Borgo (No. 11), a fire in the Borgo or Leonine City, which was miraculously stopped by Leo IV. appearing and making the sign of the cross at a window in the Vatican. In the background is shown the façade of the old basilica of St Peter, not yet destroyed when this fresco was painted. One group on the left, in the foreground, is remarkable for its vigour and powerful drawing ; the motive is taken from the burning of Troy ; a fine nude figure of Æneas issues from the burning houses bearing on his back the old Anchises and leading the boy Ascanius by the hand. Some of the female figures are designed with much grace and dramatic power. Many studies for this picture exist. This is the last of the stanze frescos on which Raphael himself worked. Others designed by him and painted by Giulio Romano, Gianfrancesco Penni, and other pupils were the Battle of Ostia (No. 12), a very nobly composed picture, and the Oath of Leo III. before Charlemagne (No. 14). The other great picture in this room (No. 13), the Coronation of Charlemagne (a portrait of Francis I. of France), is so very inferior in composition that it is difficult to believe that Raphael even made a sketch for it. The enormous fresco of the Defeat of Maxentius by Constantine (room D, No. 17) was painted by Giulio Romano, soon after Raphael’s death, from a sketch by the latter ; it is even more harsh and disagreeable in colour than most of Giulio Romano’s early frescos.@@1 Among the other very inferior frescos in this great hall are two female figures (Nos. 15 and 16) representing Comitas and Justitia, painted on the wall in oil colours, very harmonious and rich in tone ; they are usually, though wrongly, atti’ibuted to Raphael himself.
Technical Methods employed in Raphael's Frescos.—Having made many studies, both nude and draped, for single figures and
groups, the painter made a small drawing of the whole composition, which was enlarged by his pupils with the help of numbered squares, drawn all over it, to the full size required,@@2 on paper or canvas. Holes were then pricked along the outlines of the cartoon, and the design pounced through on to an undercoat of dry stucco on the wall, with Bounded charcoal and a stiff brush. Over this,
early in the morning, a patch of wet stucco was laid, about enough to serve for the day’s painting ; this of course obliterated the outline on the wall, and the part covered by the patch was again sketched in by freehand, with a point on the wet stucco, so as to be a guide for the outline traced with the brush and the subsequent painting. A line impressed on the wet stucco was easily smoothed out, but a touch of the brush full of pigment sank deeply into the moist stucco, and could not easily be effaced. It will thus be seen that in fresco painting the only use of pouncing the whole design on to the wall was to keep the general positions of the figures right, and was no guide as to the drawing of each separate part. Fig. 5 shows the portrait-heads of himself and Perugino, at the extreme left of the School of Athens; on this are visible many of the impressed sketch-lines, and also part of the “ fresco edge ” of the patch on which this part is painted. The heads in this figure are less than one day’s work. It will be seen that there is no attempt at any accuracy of drawing in the impressed lines. Raphael, especially in his later frescos, worked with wonderful rapidity: three life-sized busts, or half a full-length figure, more than life-size, was a not unusual day’s work. In some of the frescos the edges of each day’s patch of stucco can easily be traced, especially in the Incendio del Borgo, which has a strong side light. In the Disputa much use was made of tempera in the final touches, but less was used in the subsequent frescos, owing to his increasing mastery of the difficulties of the process.
The paintings in the stanze were only a small part of Raphael’s work between 1509 and 1513. To this period belong the Madonna of Foligno (Vatican), painted in 1511 for Sigismondo Conti; it is one of his most beautiful compositions, full of the utmost grace and sweetness of expression, and appears to be wholly the work of his hand. It has suffered much from repainting. Of about the same date are the gem-like Garvagh Madonna (National Gallery, bought for £9000; once in the possession of the Aldo-brandini family), the Diademed Virgin of the Louvre, and the Madonna del Pesce at Madrid. The last is a very noble picture, but the design is more pleasing than the colour, which, like other paintings of Raphael’s at Madrid, suggests the inferior touch of a pupil; it was executed in 1513 for S. Domenico in Naples. In addition to other easel pictures a number of his finest portraits belong to this period—that of Julius II. (Uffizi),@@3 of which a good replica or contemporary copy exists in the National Gallery, the so-called Fornarina in the Palazzo Barberini, the Bal-dassare Castiglione of the Louvre, and the unfinished portrait of Federigo Gonzaga of Mantua.
When Giovanni de’ Medici, at the age of thirty-eight, became pope as Leo X., a period of the most glowing splendour and reckless magnificence succeeded the sterner rule of Julius II. Agostino Chigi, the Sienese financier, was the chief of those whose lavish expenditure contributed to enrich Rome with countless works of art. For him Raphael painted, in 1513-14, the very beautiful fresco of the Triumph of Galatea in his new palace by the Tiber bank, the Villa Farnesina, and also made a large series of magnificent designs from Apuleius’s romance of Cupid and Psyche, which were carried out by a number of his pupils.@@4 These cover the vault and lunettes of a large loggia (now closed in for protection); in colouring they are mostly harsh and gaudy,@@5 as is usually the case with the works of his pupils, a great contrast to the fresco of the Galatea, the greater part of which is certainly the master’s own work.@@6 For the same patron he painted
@@@1    See Montagnani, Sal a di Gostantino, Rome, 1834. Though he was never a good colourist, the great frescos by Giulio Romano in the Palazzo del Te, Mantua, show some improvement as compared with his Roman work.
@@@2    These three stages were usually distinguished as study, sketch, and cartoon.
@@@3    A very fine ancient copy of this portrait is in the Pitti Palace ; certain peculiarities in its execution show it to be by some Venetian painter, as was pointed out to the present writer by Mr Fairfax Murray.
@@@4    Chiefly by Giulio Romano, Gianfrancesco Penni, and Giovanni da Udine ; much injury has been done to these frescos by repainting, especially in the coarse blue of the ground.
@@@5    These and other frescos by his pupils are much disfigured by the disagreeable hot tone of the flesh, very unlike the pearly tone of the flesh of Galatea.
@@@6    Dorigny, Psychis et Anioris fabula a Raphaële, &c., Rome, 1693 ; and Gruner, Fresco Decorations in Italy, London, 1854, pis. 16-18. The group of the Triton and Nymph on the left of the composition was probably executed by Giulio Romano.
(also in 1513) liis celebrated Sibyls in S. Maria della Pace, —figures of exquisite grace, arranged with perfect skill in an awkward space. It is not without reason that Vasari gives these the highest position among his fresco-paintings.@@1 Agostino Chigi also employed Raphael to build for him a private chapel in S. Maria del Popolo, and to make a series of cartoons to be executed in mosaic on the inner dome.@@2 The central medallion has a figure of God among clouds and angel boys, such as Raphael drew with unrivalled grace (fig. 6), and around are the eight
l
planets, each with its pagan deity and directing angel.@@3 He has not hampered himself by any of the usual rules which should apply to the designing of mosaic; they are simply treated as pictures, with almost deceptive effects of perspective. The execution of these brilliant mosaics was carried out by the Venetian Luigi della Pace, whose signature is introduced on the torch of Cupid in the panel representing the star Venus (Ludovico della Pace Veneziano fecit, 1516). These mosaics are still as perfect and brilliant as if they were the work of yesterday. Probably in the early years of Leo X.’s reign were painted the Madonna della Seggiola (Pitti), the S. Cecilia at Bologna (not completed till 1516), the miniature Vision of Ezekiel (Pitti), and three important pictures at Madrid. The latest of these, known as Lo Spasimo, from the church at Palermo, for which it was painted, is one of Raphael’s finest compositions, representing Christ bearing His Cross. It bears signs of Giulio Romano’s hand in its heavy colouring with unpleasant purple tones. The Madonna called Della Per la has much changed from the darkening of the pigments; in design it recalls Leonardo da Vinci.@@4 The small Madonna della Rosa is the most perfect in colour of all the master’s pictures in the Madrid Gallery, and is usually rather undervalued; it is a most graceful little picture. The portrait of Leo X. with Cardinals de’ Rossi and de’ Medici, in the Pitti, is one of his finest portrait-pictures, especially as regards the figure of the pope.@@5 Little is
known about the Madonna di S. Sisto, the glory of the Dresden Gallery; no studies or sketches for it exist. In style it much resembles the Madonna di Foligno; it is less injured by restoration than the latter.
Among the latest works of Raphael are the large St Michael and the Devil, in the Louvre, signed “Raphael Urbinas pingebat, mdxviii.,” and the very beautiful portrait of the Violin-player, in the Sciarra-Colonna Palace in Rome, also dated 1518; this last bears much resemblance to the painter himself. The British Museum possesses one of Raphael’s finest portraits, though only a chalk drawing, that of his friend the painter Timoteo della Vite, a masterpiece of expression and vigour · it is executed in black and red, and is but little inferior in chromatic effect to an oil-painting; it is life-size, and is executed with wonderful skill and evident keen interest in the subject.
The tapestry cartoons, seven of which are in the South Kensington Museum, were painted by pupils from Raphael’s designs. They are part of a set of ten, with scenes from the Acts of the Apostles, intended, when copied in tapestry, to adorn the lower part of the walls of the Sistine chapel. The tapestries themselves, worked at Brussels, are now, after many vicissitudes, hung in a gallery in the Vatican ; the set is complete, thus preserving the design of the three lost cartoons. The existing seven, after being cut up into strips for use on the looms, were bought by Rubens for Charles I.@@6 The tapestry copies are executed with wonderful skill, in spite of Raphael’s having treated the subjects in a purely pictorial way, with little regard to the exigencies of textile work. The designs are reversed, and the colours far more brilliant than those of the cartoons, much gold and silver being introduced. The noble figure of Christ in the Delivery of the Keys to St Peter is in the tapestry much disfigured by the addition of a number of large gold stars all over the drapery, which spoil the simple dignity of the folds. The rich framework round each picture, designed by Raphael’s pupils, probably by Penni and Giovanni da Udine, exists in the tapestries and adds greatly to their decorative effect. The cartoons were executed in 1515 and 1516, and the finished tapestries were first exhibited in their place in the Sistine chapel on 26th December 1519,—a very short time for the weaving of such large and elaborate pictures. The three of which the cartoons are lost represent the Martyrdom of St Stephen, the Conversion of St Paul, and St Paul in Prison at Philippi. Probably no pictures are better known or have been more often engraved and copied than these seven cartoons.@@7
The Transfiguration.@@8 —In 1519 Cardinal Giuliano de’ Medici (afterwards Clement VII.), as bishop of Narbonne, ordered two altar-pieces for his cathedral,—the one by Raphael, the other by Raphael’s Venetian rival Sebastiano del Piombo (see Sebastiano). That by the latter painter is the noble Resurrection of Lazarus, now in the National Gallery, in the drawing of which the Venetian received important aid from Michelangelo. Several studies for Raphael’s picture exist, showing that he at first intended to paint a Resurrection of Christ as a pendant to Sebas-tiano’s subject, but soon altered his scheme into the Transfiguration. The eight or nine existing studies are scattered through the Oxford, Lille, Windsor, and some private
@@@1    Thanks to Michelangelo’s generous intervention, Raphael was paid the large sum for that time of 900 gold ducats for this fresco.
@@@2    Grüner, Mosaici in S. Maria del Popolo, Rome, 1839.
@@@3    Tn accordance with Dante’s scheme in the Paradiso.
@@@* La Perla, “ the pearl ” of the Spanish royal collection, was originally painted for Bishop Louis of Canossa; it was sold by Cromwell with the greater part of Charles I.’s collection at Hampton Court. The composition, though not the execution, of this picture belongs to Raphael’s early years in Rome ; it is very remarkable for its delicacy of touch and high finish.
@@@8 The magnificent portrait-heads of the Venetian scholars Navagero and Beazzano, now in the Doria Gallery in Rome, are worthy of Raphael at his best, and have for long been attributed to him. There are good contemporary copies at Madrid.
@@@6    Fortunately they were not sold with the bulk of Charles’s collection, and remained at Hampton Court till a few years ago. See Koch, Rafael’s Tapeten im Vatican, Vienna, 1878, and Müntz, Hist, de la tapisserie Italienne, Paris, 1880.
@@@7    The name “ arazzi ” given by Italians to these tapestries is derived from Arras, where they were erroneously thought to have been woven ; they were made at Brussels. It is much to be regretted that visitors to the Vatican are no longer allowed to see these priceless examples of textile work.
@@@8    See Morgenstern, lieber Rafael’s Verklärung, Leipsic, 1822, and Justi, Die Verklärung Christi, Leipsic, 1870.
collections. A great part of the lower group was unfinished at the time of the painter’s sudden death in 1520, and a good deal of the heavy colouring of Giulio Romano is visible in it. On the death of Raphael the picture became too precious to send out of Rome, and Cardinal de’ Medici contented himself with sending the Resurrection of Lazarus to Narbonne. The Transfiguration was bequeathed by him to the monks of S. Pietro in Montorio, in tvhose church it remained till it was stolen by Napoleon I. It now hangs in the Vatican Gallery.
Architectural Work.@@1 —Though he designed but few buildings, Raphael’s great repute even in this branch of art is shown by the fact that Bramante, before his death in March 1514, specially requested that Raphael should be made his successor as chief architect of St Peter’s. To this most important post he was appointed by a brief of Leo X., dated 1st August 1514. The progress of St Peter’s was, however, too slow for him to leave much mark on its design. Another work of Bramante’s, completed by Raphael, was the graceful Cortile di S. Damaso in the Vatican, including the loggie, which were decorated with stucco-reliefs and paintings of sacred subjects by his pupils under his own supervision, but only very partially from his designs.@@2 The Palazzo dell’ Aquila, built for Giovanni Battista Branconio, and destroyed in the 17th century during the extension of St Peter’s, was one of Raphael’s chief works as an architect. He also designed the little cross church, domed at the intersection like a miniature St Peter’s, called S. Eligio degli Orefici, which still exists near the Tiber, almost opposite the Farnesina gardens, a work of but little merit. According to M. Geymiiller, whose valuable work, Rafaello come Architetto, Milan, 1883, has done so much to increase our knowledge of this subject, the Villa Farnesina of Agostino Chigi, usually attributed to Peruzzi, was, as well as its palace-like stables, designed by Raphael; but internal evidence makes this very difficult to believe. It has too much of the delicate and refined character of the 15th century for Raphael, whose taste seems to have been strongly inclined to the more developed classic style, of which Palladio afterwards became the chief exponent. The Palazzo Vidoni, near S. Andrea della Valle, also in Rome, is usually attributed to Raphael, but an original sketch for this in Peruzzi’s own hand has recently been identified among the collection of drawings at Siena ; this, however, is not a certain proof that the design was not Raphael’s. M. Geymiiller has, however, shown that the Villa Madama, on the slopes of Monte Mario above Rome, was really designed by him, though its actual carrying out, and the unrivalled stucco-reliefs which make its interior one of the most magnificent palaces in the world, are due to Giulio Romano and Giovanni da Udine, as mentioned in Vasari’s life of the latter.@@3 The original design for this villa made by Raphael himself has been discovered by M. Gey-miiller. Another architectural work was the little Chigi chapel in S. Maria del Popolo, built in 1516, for the dome of which the above-mentioned mosaics were designed (see fig. 6). At the time of his death he was preparing to build himself a handsome palace near the church of S. Eligio ; the deed for the purchase of its site was signed by him only a few days before his last short illness. Though not completed till 1530, the Palazzo Pandolfini at Florence was also designed by him ; it is a dull scholastic building without any special beauty either in proportion or treatment of the mass ; it is illustrated by Montigny and Famin, Architecture Toscane, Paris, 1815, pis. 33-36.
A sober criticism of Raphael’s architectural works must force one to refuse him a high position in this branch of art. In the clinrch of S. Eligio and the Chigi chapel he is merely a copyist of Bramante, and his more original works show but little power of invention or even mastery of the first principles of architectural design. His details are, howevei·, often delicate and refined (especially in the Palazzo Pandolfini), and he was supremely successful in the decorative treatment of richly ornamented interiors when he did not, as in some of the Vatican stanze, sacrifice the i־oom to the frescos on its walls.
Sculpture.—That Vasari is right in attributing to him the model for the beautiful statue of Jonah in the Chigi chapel (fig. 7) is borne witness to by two important documents, which show that his almost univei’sal talents led him to attempt with success the
preliminary part of the sculptor’s art, though there is no evidence to show that he ever worked on marble.@@4 One of these is a letter written to Michelangelo to warn him that Raphael had been invading his province as a sculptor by modelling a boy, which hail been executed in marble by a pupil, and was a work of much beauty. Again, after his death his friend Baldassare Castiglione, in a letter dated 8th May 1523, asks his steward in Rome “if Giulio Romano still possesses a certain boy in marble by Raphael and what his lowest price for it would be,”—“s’egli [Giulio Romano] ha più quel puttino di marmo di mano di Raffaello e per quanto si daria all’ ultimo.” A group in marble of a Dead Boy on his Dolphin Playfellow, now in the St Petersburg Hermitage, has been erroneously supposed to be Raphael’s “puttino,” which has also been identified with a statuette of a child till recently at Florence in the possession of Signor Molini.@@5  The statue of Jonah was executed in marble by Loren-zetto, a Florentine sculptor ; and it remained in his studio for many years after Raphael’s death. The South Kensington Museum possesses a small clay sketch for this beautiful group, slightly different from the marble ; it is probably the original design by the master’s own hand.
The whole feeling of the group—a beautiful youth seated on a sea - monster — is purely classical, and the motive is prob-. ably taken from some antique statue representing Arion or Taras on a dolphin.@@6 Being intended for a church it was necessary to give the figure a sacred name, and hence the very incongruous title that it received. There is no trace of Raphael’s hand in the design of the other statue, an Elijah by Lorenzetto, though it also is ascribed to him by Vasari.
Lesser Arts practised by Raphael.—Like other great artists, Raphael did not disdain to practise the lesser branches of art : a design for a silver perfume-burner with female caryatids is preserved in an engraving by Marco da Ravenna ; and he also designed two handsome repoussé salvers for Agostino Chigi, drawings for which are now at Dresden. In designs for tarsia-work and wood-carving he was especially skilful ; witness the magnificent doors and shutters of the stanze executed by his pupil Giovanni Barile of Siena.@@7 The majolica designs attributed to him were by a namesake and relation called Raffaello di Ciarla ;@@8 and, though many fine dishes and ewers of Urbino and other majolica are decorated with Raphael’s designs, they are all taken from pictures or engravings, not specially done by him for ceramic purposes. With the frivolity of his age Leo X. occasionally wasted Raphael’s skill on unworthy objects, such as the scenery of a temporary'theatre ; and in 1516 the pope set him to paint in fresco the portrait life-size of a large elephant, the gift of the king of Portugal, after the
@@@1    See Ojetti, Discorso su Raffaello Architetto, Rome, 1883, but more especially Geymiiller’s work mentioned below, and bis Projets Primitifs pour la Bas. de S. Pierre, Paris, 1875-80.
@@@2    See Mariani, La Bibbia nelle Loggie del Vaticano, Rome; Anon., Dipinti nelle Loggie del Vaticano, Rome, 1841 ; and Gruner, Fresco Decorations, London, 1854, pis. 1-5. Too great a share in the decoration of the loggie is usually given to Raphael; not only the harsh colour but also the feebleness of much of the drawing shows that he can have had but little to do with it.
@@@3    See Gruner, Fresco Decorations, &c., London, 1854, pis. 6-12, and Raffaelle Santi, Ornati della Villa Madama, &c., Rome, 1875. Two other little known but very beautiful architectural works, executed under Raphael’s influence by his pupils, are the bath-room of Cardinal Bibbiena in the Vatican and the bath-room of Clement VII. in the castle of S. Angelo, both richly decorated with delicate stucco-reliefs and paintings, treated after a classical model.
@@@4    See note on p. 369, vol. iv., of Milanesi’s edition of Vasari, Florence, 1879. To one branch of the sculptor’s art, practised under Raphael’s supervision, belong the elaborate and delicately executed stucco-reliefs of the loggie and elsewhere. Among these occur many panels with figure-subjects, large in scale and important in composition ; those executed during his lifetime are free from the too pictorial character which is an obvious fault in the very magnificent reliefs of the Villa Madama.
@@@5    See Appendix, p. 406, vol. iv., of Milanesi’s edition of Vasari; Rembadi, Del putto . . . di Raffaello, Florence, 1872 ; Gennarelli, Sopra una Scultura di Raffaello, Florence, 1S73. The evidence which would attribute this piece of sculpture to Raphael is almost worthless. See on the St Petersburg group, Guedeonoff, Heber die dem Raphael zugeschr. Marmorgruppe, St Petersburg, 1872.
@@@6    Compare this latter subject on reverses of the beautiful didraclims of Taren turn, c. 300 b.c.
@@@7    The very beautiful and elaborate choir-stalls of the church of S. Pietro de’ Casinensi at Perugia, with panels carved in relief, executed in 1535 by Stefano da Bergamo, are mainly adapted from Raphael’s designs.
@@@8    Campori, Notizie Stor. d. Maiolica di Ferrara, 3d ed., Pesaro, 1879, pp. 132-133.
animal was dead.@@1 This elephant is also introduced among the stucco reliefs of the Vatican loggie, with the poetaster Barrabal sitting in mock triumph on its back.
Though Raphael himself does not appear to have practised the art of engraving, yet this formed one of the many branches of art which were carried on under his supervision. A large number of his designs were engraved by his pupils Marcantouio Raimondi (see vol. xv. p. 530) and Agostino Veneziano. These valuable engravings are from Raphael’s sketches, not from his finished pictures, and in some cases they show important alterations made in the execution of the picture. Raimondi’s engraving of the S. Cecilia of Bologna in design is very inferior to that of the actual painting. Several of Raphael’s most important compositions are known to us only by these early engravings, c.g., the Massacre of the Innocents (engraved by Raimondi), which is one of his finest works, both for skilful composition and for masterly drawing of the nude. Another magnificent design is the Judgment of Paris, containing a large number of figures ; the nude figure of Minerva is a work of especial force and beauty. A standing figure of Lueretia@@2 about to stab herself is also one of his most lovely figures. Many of Raphael’s studies for Marcantonio’s engravings still exist.
Archaeology.—As an antiquary Raphael deserves to take the highest rank. His report@@3 to Leo X. in 1518 is an eloquent plea for the preservation of ancient buildings. In 1515 he had been appointed by Leo X. inspector of all excavations in Rome and within 10 miles round. His careful study of the antique, both statues and modes of decoration, is clearly shown in many of his frescos, and especially in the graceful stucco reliefs and painted grotteschi, of which he and his pupils made such skilful use in the decorations of the Vatican loggie, the Villa Madaina, and elsewhere.@@4
Raphael's Fame.—When we consider the immense field over which his labours were spread and the strong personal individuality which appears in all these varied branches of art, together with the almost incredible number of paintings that issued from his studio, it will be seen that he must have laboured with an amount of unflagging industry which has perhaps never been surpassed, and that too in a time and in a city of which the social habits and luxurious splendour certainly threw every possible temptation in the way of steady application and regular work.
Among all the painters of the world none has been so universally popular as Raphael, or has so steadily maintained his pre-eminent reputation throughout the many changes in taste which have taken place in the last three and a half centuries. Apart from his combined merits as a draughtsman, colourist, and master of graceful composition, he owes the constancy of admiration which has been felt for him partly to the wide range of his subjects, but still more to the wonderful varieties of his style. If the authorship of his paintings were unknown, who would guess that the Sposalizio of the Brera, the Madonna del Baidacchino of the Pitti, and the Transfiguration could possibly be the work of one painter 1 In his earliest pictures he touches the highly spiritual and sacred art of the Perugian Fiorenzo di Lorenzo, while in his latest Roman work he is fully embarked in the pagan spirit of the last development of the Renaissance, already on the brink of the most rapid decline. In the seventeen or eighteen years which composed his short working life he passed through stages of development for which a century would not have seemed too long, while other painters lived through the same changeful time with but little alteration in their manner of work. Perugino, who outlived his wonderful pupil, completed in 1521 Raphael’s San Severo fresco in a style differing but little from his paintings executed in the previous century.
In versatility of power Raphael (as a painter) remains almost without a rival; whether painting an altar-piece
for a church, a large historical fresco, a portrait, or decorative scenes from classical mythology, he seems to excel equally in each; and the widely different methods of painting in tempera, oil, or fresco are employed by him with apparently equal facility. His range of scale is no less remarkable, varying from a miniature, finished like an illuminated MS., to colossal figures in fresco dashed in with inimitable breadth and vigour.
An additional glory is thrown round his memory by the personal beauty, charm of manner, and deep kindliness of heart which endeared him to all who knew him.@@5 His sincere modesty was not diminished by his admission as an equal by the princes of the church, the distinguished scholars, and the world-famed men of every class who formed the courts of Julius II. and Leo X. In accordance with the spirit of the age he lived with considerable display and luxury, and was approached with the utmost deference by the ambassadors of foreign princes, whether their master desired a picture, or, as the duke of Ferrara did, sent to consult him on the best cure for smoky chimneys. To his pupils he was as a father, and they were all, as Vasari says, “ vinti dalla sua cortesia ” ; they formed round him a sort of royal retinue, numbering about fifty youths, each talented in some branch of the arts.@@6  Giulio Romano and Gianfrancesco Penni, his two favourite pupils, lived with him in the Palazzo di Bramante, a house near St Peter’s, where he resided during the greater part of his life in Rome. This fine palace, designed by Bramante, was destroyed in the 17 th century at the same time as Raphael’s Palazzo dell’ Aquila.
It is difficult to realize the furor of grief and enthusiasm excited by the master’s death on Good Friday 1520, at the age of thirty-seven exactly, after an attack of fever which lasted only ten days. His body was laid out in state in his studio, by the side of the unfinished Transfiguration, and all Rome flocked to the place for a last sight of the “divino pittore.” His property amounted to about ¿030,000 ; his drawings and MSS. he left to Giulio Romano and Gianfrancesco Penni ; his newly bought land to Cardinal Bibbiena, the uncle of the lady to whom he had been betrothed ; there were liberal bequests to his servants; and the rest was mostly divided among his relatives at Urbino. He desired to be buried in the Pantheon, under the noble dome which he and Bramante had dreamed of rivalling. His body is laid beside an altar, which he endowed with an annual chantry, and on the wall over it is a plain slab, with an inscription written by his friend Cardinal Bembo. Happily his grave has as yet escaped the disfigurement of a pretentious monument such as those erected to Michelangelo, Dante, and other great Italians ; it has not, however, remained undisturbed : in 1833 it was opened and the bones examined.@@7 In March 1883 a festival was held at Urbino, on the occasion of the 4th centenary of his birth, and on this occasion many interesting articles on Raphael were published, especially one by Geymüller, “ Le IVme Centenaire de la Naissance de Raphaël,” 1483-1883, in the Gaz. de Lausanne, March 1883.
Literature.—Comolli, Vita inedita di Raffaello, 1790 ; Duppa, Life of Raphael, London, 1816 ; Braun, Raphael . . . Lehcn und IVcrke, Wiesbaden, 1819 ; Fea, Raffaello . . . ed alcunc di lui Opéré, Rome, 1822 ; Reliberg, Rafael Sanzio aus Urbino, Munich, 1824 ; Quatremère de Quincy, Vila ed Opéré di Raffaello, trans. by Longhena, Milan, 1829 (a work marred by many inaccuracies) ; Rumohr, Ueber Raphael und sein Verhâltniss, Berlin, 1831 ; Rio, Michelange et Raphaël, Paris, 1863 ; Gruyer, Raphaël et l'Antiquité
@@@1    Under it was inscribed—“ Raphael Urbinas quod natura abstu-lerat arte restituit.”
@@@2    On a pedestal is inscribed in Greek—“Better to die than live basely.”
@@@3    Published by Visconti, Lettera di Raffaello a Leone X., Rome, 1840 ; see also Miintz, “ Raphaël Archéologue,” &c., Gaz. des B. Arts, October and November 1880.
@@@4    See Gruyer, Raphael et VAntiquité, Paris, 1S64.
@@@5    See the eloquent eulogy of his character at the end of Vasari’s Life.
@@@6    See Minghetti, “Gli Scolari di Raffaello,” Nuova Antologia, June 1880.
@@@7    See “Ritrovamento delle ossa di Raffaello,” Soc. Virtuosi al Pan-teone, Rome, 1833 ; other pamphlets on this were published in the same year by Fea, Falconieri, and Odescalchi.
(Paris, 1864), Les Vierges de Raphaël (Paris, 1878), and Raphaël, Peintre de Portraits (Paris, 1880) ; Grimm, Das Leben Raphaels von Urbino, Berlin, 1872 (intended specially to point out the errors of Vasari and Passavant, and not written in a very fair spirit) ; Gher-ardi, Della Vita di Raffaello, Urbino, 1874 ; Springer, Raffael und Michelangelo, Leipsic, 1878 ; Perkins, Raphael and Michelangelo, Boston, 1878 ; Dohme, Kunst und Künstler des Mittelalters, Leipsic, 1878 (vol. ii. of this valuable work, with many illustrations, is devoted entirely to Raphael and Michelangelo) ; Alippi, 11 Raffaello, Urbino, 1880 ; Clément, Michelange et Raphaël, 5th ed. (improved), Paris, 1881 ; Eug. Müntz, Raphaël, sa Vie, son Œuvre, &c., Paris, 1881 (this is on the whole the best single work on Raphael, both from its text and its numerous well-chosen illustrations) ; Passavant, Rafael und sein Vater, Leipsic, 1839-58 (a valuable book, especially for its list of Raphael’s works ; a new edition translated by Guasti into Italian was published at Florence in 1882, but, though printed so recently, this edition is in no way superior to the French one of Lacroix, Paris, 1860, which, however, is a great advance on the original German text) ; Crowe and Cavalcaselle, Life and Works of Raphael, London, 1882-85; Eug. Miintz, Les Historiens et les Critiques de Raphaël, Paris, 1883 (contains a good bibliography of the subject). The student of Raphael owes a special debt of gratitude for the recent labours of MM. Miintz, Gruyer, and Geymüller.
Reproductions of Raphael's Works.—From the time of Raimondi downwards no painter’s works have been so frequently engraved. The Calcografia Camerale (now called Regia) of Rome possesses an enormous number of copper-plates of his pictures by a great many good (and bad) engravers of this and the last century. Electrotypes of the old coppers are still worked, and are published by the Stamperia at very moderate prices ; in the catalogue Nos. 736 to 894 are the works of Raphael, including several books of engravings containing whole sets, such as the Vatican loggie, &c. A very complete collection of photographs from these and other engravings is published by Gutbier and Lübke, Rafael’s Werke, sämmt-liche Tafelbilder und Fresken, Dresden, 188182־, in three large volumes, divided into classes,—pictures of the Madonna, frescos, stanze of the Vatican, tapestry cartoons, &c. The descriptive text and life of Raphael are by Lübke. The Malcolm, Oxford, British Museum, Lille, Louvre, Dresden, and other collections of Raphael’s drawings have mostly been published in photographic facsimile, and an enormous number of illustrated monographs on single pictures exists. Braun’s autotypes of the stanze and Farnesina frescos are especially good.    (J. H. M.)
RAPIN, Paul de (1661-1725), sieur of Thoyras, French historian, was the son of Jacques de Rapin, avocat at Castres (Tarn), where he was born on 25th March 1661. He was educated at the Protestant academy of Saumur, and in 1679 he became an advocate, but soon afterwards entered the army. The revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685 and the death of his father, which happened two months afterwards, led him to come to England; but, unable to find employment there, he crossed to Holland and enlisted in the company of French volunteers at Utrecht commanded by Daniel de Rapin, his cousin-german. He accompanied the prince of Orange to England in 1688, and the following year Lord Kingston made him ensign in his regiment, with which he proceeded to Ireland. He took part in the siege of Carrickfergus and the battle of the Boyne, and was shot through the shoulder at the battle of Limerick. Soon afterwards he was promoted captain; but in 1693 he resigned in order to become tutor to the earl of Portland’s son. His next change was to return to his family, which he had settled at The Hague, and there he continued some years. But, as he found his family increase, he resolved to retire to a more economical residence, and accordingly removed in 1707 to Wesel, where he commenced his great work L·Histoire d'Angleterre.    Though he was of a strong con
stitution, the seventeen years’ application entirely ruined his health. He died in 1725.
Rapin was also the author of a Dissertation sur les Whigs et les Torys, 1717. L'Histoire d’Angleterre, embracing the period from the invasion of the Romans to the death of Charles L, was printed at The Hague in 1724 in 8 vols. It was translated into English, and improved with notes, by Tindal, in 2 vols, folio, 1725-31. Although the work of a foreigner, it is deservedly esteemed as one of the fullest and most impartial collections of English political transactions extant.
RASGRAD or Hesargrad, a town of Bulgaria, with a station about 2 miles distant on the Varna and Rustchuk
Railway, is situated on the Byaly Lorn, 970 feet above sea-level. It has increased in population during the last fifty years from 3000 to 10,000 inhabitants. In 1810 it was the scene of the defeat of the Turks by the Russians.
RASHBA (רשב׳׳א) stands for three rabbins of various ages and various countries.
1.    R. Shime'on Ben El'azar was a Mishnic teacher of the 2d century.
2.    Rabbenu Shimshon Ben Abraham of Sens wrote commentaries on various Mishnic treatises (see Mishnah, vol. xvi. p. 506).
3.    R. Shelomoh Ben Abraham (or Ben [Ibn] Ad-dereth) was a disciple of Nachmanides, upon whom his master’s mantle had fallen (see Ramban). He became chief rabbi of Barcelona. Here so many disciples from the neighbouring provinces flocked to him as to excite emulation among the Jews in the capital of Castile, who thereupon appointed the German Rabbi Asher b. Yehiel (Rosh). At the same time religious questions poured in upon him from all Israel, so that it is a marvel how he could go through his mere clerical work.
His works extend over the whole Talmud, although not all of them are printed. But thousands of his Responsa have been printed, while many others lie in MS. at Cambridge (Add. 500). Of his other works, the enumeration of which would occupy columns, mention can be made only of his explanations of the Agadoth of the Babylonian Talmud, containing polemic against both Christians and Moslems (MS., Univ. Camb., Add. 1567, 1). On his part in the Maimonidean controversy see Schiller-Szinessy, Catalogue, i. 187 sq.    (S. M. S.-S.)
RASHBAM. Rabbenu Shemuel Ben Meer, commonly called, from his title and the initials of his own and his father’s names, Rashbam, was born at Rameru (Ramerupt near Troyes, in France) about 1080. He was almost the greatest Talmudist of his time, the only two excelling him till 1105 being Rashi and later on his own younger brother, Rabbenu Ya'akob, better known as Rabbenu Tham. In Bible criticism and exegesis, however, he excelled all the men of the 11th and 12th centuries, even if we include R. Menahem b. Helbo, R. Yoseph Bekhor Shor, and R. Yoseph Kara of the Franco-Ashkenazic school, and Abraham Ibn 'Ezra of the Sepharadic school. Rashbam was the son of Yokhebed, second daughter of Rashi (q.v.), and of Rabbenu Meir of Rameru (b. Shemuel). He sue-ceeded his grandfather Rashi as head of the Rabbinical college, and probably also of the congregation, of Troyes. Later, however, we meet him at other places, e.g., Caen, Loudun. He died about 1160.
Of his works the following are known. (1) Commentaries on the Bible: (a) his commentary on the Pentateuch, uncritically edited several times (ed. princeps, Berlin, 1705), and critically and most ably for the first time by Rosin of Breslau (1881, 8vo); (b) commentaries on most of the other books of the Bible, the greater part of which are now lost, but the existence of which is in early times fully testified to. Those on Ecclesiastes and Canticles@@1 were published by Dr Jellinek at Leipsic (1855, 8vo); specimens of both books have been translated into English by Dr Ginsburg (Song of Songs, London, 1857, and Coheleth, London, 1861).    (2) Com-
mentaries on the Babylonian Talmud ; of these we now possess only his supplements on Pesahim (leaves 99b-121b), Baba Bathrd (leaves 29a-176b), and Makkoth (leaves 19b sq. ; see the so-called
Rashi on the Riph, in the Mishnah, iii. 5, catchword ¡ועל הזק). Commentaries on five other treatises are distinctly referred to by old authorities,@@2 but Rashi’s commentaries so thoroughly eclipsed all those written before and after him that none of them had a chance of surviving, except in the shape of a supplement. (3) Additamenta or Tosaphoth ; see Rabbinovicz (variae lectiones), ii.,
@@@1    The present writer cannot share the opinion of those who, because of the Agadic explanations with which that commentary abounds, call Rashbam’s authorship in question. Ibn ’Ezra himself, who was sober thinker enough, is compelled in Canticles to resort to the Rabbinic explanation,—a proceeding and a method in which every modern commentator must take refuge, unless he wishes to explain the book as a merely profane one.
@@@2    See Berliner Magazin, &c., vii. 186, and Or Zarua, in several places (comp. Magazin, ii. p. 100).
Preface, p. 13, and Steinsclineider, Hebr. Hnndschr. in der kon. Bib. Berlin, p. 3.    (4) Response¡,; see, for example, Raban (Prague,
1610, folio), leaves 143, col. 2, to 146b, col. 1, and elsewhere. (5) Of his controversies with Christians nothing is left except what is occasionally to be found in his commentary on the Pentateuch. (6) On his book on the calendar calculations see Berliner Magazin, vii. p. 185.    (7) On the true author of the commentary on Aboth,
ascribed to Rashbam, see Taylor, Catal., No. 20.    (8) Although
the attack on his hemero-nyction theory (commentary on Gen. i. 4, 5) was made by Ibn , Ezra (Iggcreth Hasshabbath; see Kercm Hcmcd, iv. pp. 159173־, and Mibhar Hammaamarim by Nathan b. Shemuel, printed at Leghorn in 1840, leaves 58a66־a) in Rash-barn’s lifetime he seems not to have answered it. (S. M. S.-S.)
KASHI (v׳ cn), that is, Rabbenu Shelomoh Yisha^i (Solomon, son of Isaac), whence by Christian writers he is also called Isacides@@1 (1010-1105), was the greatest rabbi of the Middle Ages. He is equally important for Biblical and Talmudic study, and in the former connexion as interesting to Christians as to Jews from the influence of his exegesis on Luther’s Bible (through De Lyra; see vol. xi. p. 601) and on the English version of the Old Testament (mainly through Ibn 'Ezra, and still more through Kimlii). Raslii is the most eminent of the “sages” or “great men of Lothaire”@@2 (Tnib, i.e., Lorraine) in whom culminated that movement of Jewish scholarship to which Charlemagne had given the first impulse. From the Jew Isaac, first interpreter and then ambassador in his famous mission to HArun ar-Rashfd, Charlemagne had doubtless learned how superior in literary attainments the Jews of the East were to those of the West, and therefore he gave great privileges to the accomplished Makhirites @@3 who were introduced into the south of France, and spread Jewish culture and literature there.@@4 Later on he brought from Rome to Mainz the Kalonymites, a family of distinguished Talmudists, poets, Ac., of Lucca;@@5 and soon Spires, Worms, and Mainz (spoken of as Shum, D״Vw>) became famous seats of Jewish learning; their ordinances (Takkanoth Shum) were of normative authority for centuries, and the study of the Hebrew Bible and the Babylonian Talmud steadily spread from southern Germany to northern France. Though Spires, Worms, and Mainz by the partition treaty of Verdun in 843 belonged to East Frankland, yet in Jewish literature Lothaire includes these cities; and all the greatest doctors of Jewish lore in the south of Germany or north of France belong to the “ great men ” or “ sages of Lothaire.”@@6 Rashi was born, in the year in which the last nominal gaon of Pumbaditha died, at Troyes, where his father Yishak: was no doubt rabbi. R. Yishak was probably a disciple of R. Gershom; certainly he was an eminent Talmudist.@@7 His wife, Rashi’s mother, was a sister of R. Shime'on hazzaken.@@8
Her name is unknown, as is also that of the wife whom Rashi, according to Mishnic precept (Aboth, v. 21), married at the age of eighteen. Soon after his marriage, and with his wife’s consent, he left her to prosecute his studies in Germany, returning home only from time to time.@@9 She bore him no sons, but three daughters.@@10
Rashi had at least six teachers,—(1) his father; (2) R. Ya'akob b. Yakar (chief rabbi at Worms) for Bible and Talmud (Rashi on T. B., Pesahim, 111a), a disciple of R. Gershom (Rashbam, ibid., and Siddur, ii. leaf 10a) and friend of R. Eli'ezer liaggadol; (3) his successor, R. Yishak Segan Leviyyah (T.B., Besah, 24b), a pupil of R. Eli'ezer haggadol; (4) his mother’s brother, already named (T.B., Shabbath, 85b); (5) R. Yishak b. Yehudah, also a pupil of R. Eli'ezer, and head of the community at Mainz (Pardes, xxi.); (6) R. Elyakim, head of the community at Spires (ibid., clix., clxxxi., ccxc., cccvi.). Besides the oral instruction of his teachers, Rashi had and used copies of, and commentaries on, sundry parts of the Talmud written by these scholars themselves or by their teachers or disciples (T. B., Berdkhoth, 39a, 57b ; Shabbath, 10b; R. Hasshanah, 28a; Sukkah, 45b; Siddur, ii. leaf 10a). He had also before him all the Jewish literature existing and known at his time, as the Bible, part of the Apocrypha, all the Targums, sundry cabbalistic works (Sepher Yesirah, Hekhaloth, Ac.@@11 ), both Talmuds, the Midrashim, Sheeltoth, Halakhoth Gedoloth, Teshuboth Haggeonim, the works of R. Mosheh Haddarshan, the lexicographical works of Menahem b. Seruk and Donash b. Labrat, and, last but not least, the commentaries of R. Gershom, which he used largely, but mostly silently.@@12 He also used the works of his own contemporaries, such as the 'Arukh@@13 His studies completed, Rashi returned to his native town and opened a school for Bible and Talmud. His fame quickly rose; disciples gathered round him from the whole north of France and south of Germany, and men in office, who had grown grey in study, addressed to him “religious questions,” his “answers” to which give us insight into his character, piety, and ability.@@14 He died on 13th (not 26th) July 1105,@@15 having already seen two of his grandsons “in-
@@@1    The interpretation of the י of רש״י as meaning Yarchi (Jarchi), i.e., of Lunel, is not to be charged on Buxtorf, nor on Seb. Münster, being already found in the text of the Pugio Fidei of Raymundus Martini, written in the second half of the 13th century.
@@@2    Lothaire never means Lhuitre (Luistre), as appears from the phrase
מלכות לותיר, “ realm of Lothaire.” Instead of עיר ליתיר in Rashi’s
so-called Siddur, ii. leaf 33a, must be read ערי לותיר, as will be easily seen from the context.
@@@3    See Yolmsin Hasshalem (London and Edinburgh, 1857, 8vo), p.84.
@@@4    Possibly also, like some princes of the 10th century, Charlemagne encouraged Jewish literature in order to keep at home the considerable sums which the Jews had been wont to send to the Babylonian geonim.
@@@s See 'Emek JIabbakha, ed. Letteris (Vienna, 1852, 12mo), p. 13, and Wiener’s German translation (Leipsic, 1858, 8vo), p. 8. Reshal’s Responsa, § xxix., is unfortunately corrupt in many places.
@@@6    See Brit. Mus. MS. Add. 27200, leaf 24a.
@@@7    This appears from an explanation quoted from him by his son
on a passage of 'Abodah Zarah (f. 75a, catchword לא פליגי)). This treatise was at that time scarcely studied, even by eminent rabbis, and the explanation is markedly superior to one which Rashi also gives from R. Ya'akob b. Yakar, hitherto regarded as the most eminent of his teachers.
@@@8    Not to be confounded with his older contemporary, the poet and Halakhist, Shime'on b. Yishak haggadol. The epithets “hazzaken ” and “ haggadol ” both mean “the elder,” but the epithet is varied to distin-guish the persons.
@@@<J See Hoplies Matmonim, ed. Goldberg, p. 2 (ורחיים בצוואר שמשתי
לפניהם).
@@@10    They married three of their father’s disciples. The husband of the eldest was, according to Schiller-Szinessy (Camb. Cat., ii. 88 sq., note 1), R. Simhah of Vitry-le-Fran^ais (ob. 1105), reputed author of the Mahzor Vitri, which, if the other MSS. so called have no better title to the name than that in the British Museum, Add. 27200-1, must now be regarded as lost (Taylor, Catal. MSS. of Aboth, &c., No. 20; Schiller-Szinessy, op. cit., ii. 61 sq.). The issue of this marriage was (1) R. Shema'yah of Soissons (see Mishnah, vol. xvi. p. 506); (2) R. Shemuel, who married his cousin, Rashbam’s only sister. Rashi’s second daughter, Yokhebed, married R. Meir of Rameru (b. Shemuel), a brother of R. Simhah. He was father of four sons,— (1) Ribam (R. Yishak b. Meir), who died in his father’s lifetime; (2) Rashbam (q.v.); (3) R. Tham or Rath; (4) R. Shelomoh (Br. Mus., Add. 27200,leaf 158b). The third daughter, Miryam, married R. Yehudah b. Nathan, who sup-plemented his father-in-law’s commentary on Makkoth, and wrote the commentary that goes by Rashi’s name on T. B., Nazir, &c. Their son’s name was R. Yom Tob (Sepher Hayyashar, Vienna, 1810, § 599).
@@@11    See Rashi, T. B., Berakhoth, 51a ; Hagigah, 13a ; Sukkah, 45a ; and many other places. See also Siddur, ii. leaf 22b, col. 2 (on the reading of the Shema' in bed). Such passages as Kiddushin, 71 a, do not, when rightly understood, testify to the contrary. Rashi’s “ they ” refers not to his contemporary teachers, but to those of the Talmud who “had not explained to us the Holy Names of the Twelve and Forty-two.” It is therefore quite untrue that Rashi “knew nothing of kabbalah.”
@@@12    R. Gershom, “ the light of the Diaspora ” (see vol. xvi. p. 506), died in the year in which Rashi was born, and was the immediate teacher of his teachers. One of his commentaries is printed in the Shittah Mekubbeselh on Karethoth, Vienna, 1878, folio.
@@@13    See T.B., Shabbath, 13b, catchword האוכל.
@@@11 See Hophes Matmonim, p. 8.
@@@15 See MS. De-Rossi (Roy. Libr., Parma) 175 {Catal., p. 116), and MS. Luzzatto (Literaturbl. d. Orients, vii. p. 418). This precious MS., which subsequently belonged to Halberstam of Bielitz, is now the property of the master of St John’s College, Cambridge.
terpreting ’ in 111s presence, and the budding intelligence of a third, ־who became the greatest Talmudist of his age.
Rashi, though not the originator of all that he teaches in his commentary on the Talmud, had so digested the whole literature bearing on that stupendous work that his teaching, even when it appears to be imitative, is really creative. In his Biblical com-mentaries he has not, of course, grammatical and philological knowledge of the modern type, but he had a very fine sense for linguistic points, which was not equalled, much less surpassed, by the greatest rabbis who followed him. He gave satisfaction, if not to all, at least to the best of his time, and, as the great German poet says, “ he who has given satisfaction to the best of his time lives for all ages.”
Rashi’s Works.—A. Bible Commentary (פרוש).—Rashi com-rnented on the whole of the Hebrew Bible except Job, chaps, xl. 21 to the end, and the books of Chronicles.@@1 Kimhi’s is the only Rabbinical commentary which can be said to have successfully approached this great work in its influence on Jewish scholarship ; and on the Pentateuch Rashi had no rival. For centuries too his was the text-book in boys’ schools throughout the Jewish world—and in some countries it is so still, its depth and subtilty being com-bined with simplicity of exposition. Its currency is attested by more than a hundred supercommentaries, translations, extracts, and the like, of which there are about fifty in print. An eminent rabbi declares that Rashi may be substituted for the Targum “ in the reading of the weekly pericope ” (Reshal, Yam shcl Shelomoh on Kiddushin, ii. § 14). Rashi’s influence on Christian scholars has already been alluded to. N. de Lyra copied him so closely as to be called his “ape.”@@2
Translations. —The whole commentary was rendered into Latin by Pellicanus (q.v.), but never printed, and again by Breithaupt (3 vols. 4to, Gotha, 1710-14). This version includes the spurious commentary on Chronicles and is accompanied by notes. Of separate parts there are printed versions of Gen. i.-vi. (Scherzer, 1663), Gen. vi.-xi. (Abicht, 1705), Gen. xlix. (Loscani, 1710), Hosea (Mercier,
1621) , Joel, Jonah (Leusden, 1656), Joel (Genebrard, 1563), Jonah, Zephaniali, Obadiah (Pontac, 1556), Obadiah (Crocius, 1673), Malachi (S. de Muis, 1618), Ps. xix. (Id., 1620), Proverbs (Giggieus, 1620), Canticles (Genebrard, 1570), Ruth (Carpzov, 1703), Esther (Aquinas,
1622) . The Pentateuch was translated into German by L. Dukes (Prague, 1833-38, 8vo); Genesis wr as done by L. Haymann (Bonn, 1833, 8vo). Editions, especially of the Pentateuch, are very numer-ous. Only some of the chief can here be named,—(a) on the whole Bible, with the sacred text—Venice, 1545, 1595, 1607 (all three in 4to) ; Cracow, 1610, 4to ; Basel, 1618, folio ; (b) Pentateuch with text (all sm. folio) —Bologna, 1482; Ixar, 1490; Lisbon and Naples, 1491 ; (c) Pentateuch without text—Reggio, 1475, folio (the first Hebrew book printed with date); s. 1. ct a., but before 1480, 4to ; Soncino, 1487, folio. MSS. of Rashi on the whole Bible are very rare, and even those which are supposed to be such turn out, on examination, to be either incomplete or defective, or both. There lies a precious MS. in Leyden (1 Seal.) ; but it is a trifle defective in Exodus. St John’s College, Cambridge, possesses a still more ancient and precious MS. (A. 3; dated 1239) ; but it lacks the Penta-teuch and Ezra(-Nehemiah), and is defective in the end (though, it is true, only in Chronicles, which is not Rashi’s, as mentioned before). But MSS. of Rashi on the Pentateuch, both old and good, abound. There are few libraries in Europe that have not one or two of this commentary. It is to be hoped, therefore, that Dr A. Berliner, who has already edited critically Rashi on the Pentateuch (Berlin, 1866, 8vo), although not on the faith of a sufficient number of MSS., will soon issue a second and superior edition.
B. Commentary on the Babylonian Talmud, @@3 .קונטרס—Rashi had not been dead a hundred years when it was felt in the learned world that no such master in the Talmud had ever existed before him, and that without his aid and especially his corrections of the text (then only embodied in his commentary), the sea of the Baby-Ionian Talmud could not safely be sailed on. He became now the teacher even of the Jews in the East. He commented on the whole of the Talmud to which Gemara is attached (see Mishnah), except on Nedarim from leaf 22b to the end, Nazir and Tamid from begin-ning to end, Baba Bathra from 29a to the end, and Makkoth from leaf 19b@@4 to the end. In commenting on the two last-named
@@@1    The supplement to the former is generally ascribed to R. Ya’akob Nazir ; its relation to the author of the MS. commentary on Job (Camb. Univ. Lib., Dd. 8. 53) has still to be worked out. The commentary on Chronicles in which Rashi is three times cited by name (2 Chron. iii. 15, xxii. 11, and xxiii. 14) is the work of a German rabbi residing in Provence.
@@@2    See J. H. Maius, Vita Reuchlini, 1687, Prsef. The thanks of the present writer are due to the curators and librarian of the Bodleian for the loan of this book.
@@@3    On this word see Schiller-Szinessy, Catalogue, i. p. 181, note.
@@@4    His disciple, son-in-law, and continuator Rabbenu Yehudah b. Nathan writes : “ At the word ‘ tahor ’ (pure) the soul of our teacher went out in purity.”
massekhtoth death surprised him. Rashi on the Talmud has never been printed apart from the text, and so the first complete edition is that contained in the editio princeps of the Babylonian Talmud (Venice, 1520-23, folio). Portions had come out before with parts of the Talmud (Soncino, 1483, and elsewhere later). There are MSS. containing Rashi on isolated Talmudic treatises in various libraries : the Cambridge University Library and British Museum have six each, the Bodleian twelve, the Paris National Library seven.
C.    The Religious Decisions (פסקים) given by Rashi are to be found in various works, principally in the so-called Siddur (i. and ii.) and Happardes (Warsaw, 1870, folio)—called Happardes Haggadol to distinguish it from the abridgment by R. Shemuel of Bamberg (13th century) called Likjcute Happardes (Venice, 1519, 4to) — a work of which Rashi himself seems to have laid the foundation, though other literature on other subjects is now mixed up with it. Of the same nature are אסור והתר (kindly lent to the writer by Dr Merzbacher of Munich) and Hoorah (only in part printed). Various halakhoth, &c., are also to be found in various mahzorim (e.g., the Cambridge MS. Add. 667, leaves 153-156, and elsewhere), the Shibbole Halleket, ii. (by R. Sidkiyyaliu b. Abraham Harophe, Cambridge MS. Add. 653).
D.    Poems (פיוטים).—Rashi was no poet by profession and much less by genius; but he had a tenderly feeling heart, and saw the horrors of the first crusade; and he wrote Selihoth (propitiatory and penitential prayers), which are by no means without their value. One is embodied in the additional service of the day of atonement and begins “ Tannoth Saroth ” (Reshal’s Responsa, § xxix.), and several more, which form the acrostic Shelomoh bar Yishak, are found in the collection of the Selihoth of the Ash-kenazic rite. It is not improbable also that the Aramaic Reshuth iv. to the Haphtarah in Targum (introduction to the prophetic portion as given in Yonathan b. 'Uzz'iel’s Aramaic paraphrase), which is to be found in the Reuchlinian Codex (De Lagarde, Prophetae chaldaice, Leipsic, 1872, 8vo, leaf 492), is his. It is much his style, and the acrostic is Shelomoh (and not שמעק). It is also very probable that Reshuth v. is his. If so, he must have composed it when very young, as several expressions in it testify.
E.    Le'azim (לעזים).—In his commentaries Rashi, like R. Gersliom before him and others after him, often introduces French words (chiefly verbs and nouns) to give precision to his explanations. Of these Le'azim there are certainly more than 3000, and they are most valuable to the student of old French. Unfortunately copyists, notably in Italy, and printers subsequently, have often substituted their own vernacular for the original French ; there are now even Russian words to be found in Rashi. Four hundred years ago explanations of some of these Le'azim and of those of Kimhi were offered by the author of Makre Dardeke (Naples, 1488). Other contributions have followed intermittingly down to the present time (Brothers Bondi in Or Esther, Dessau, 1812; Dormitzer and Landau in Marpe Lashon, Odessa, 1865, 12mo). The labours of M. Arsene Darmsteter promise to be exhaustive, and are based on ex-tensive collations, see Romania, April 1872, p. 146 sq.
There is no satisfactory life of Rashi; most recent accounts rest on a Life by Zunz (1S22), which has not been reprinted in his collected works. (S. M. S.-S.)
RASHT (also Rascht, Rescht, Rashd, and Resht), a town in northern Persia, situated in 37° 18' N. lat. and 49° 37' E. long., capital of the richly wooded maritime pro-vince of Gilan, contains from 15,000 to 20,000 inhabitants. Eastwick, who was there in 1861, accepts the former estimate, but states that the place was four times as popu-lous before the plague of 1831. The distance from Enzelli, on the southern shores of the Caspian, the actual port of dis-embarkation for passengers and goods from Russia, is about 16 miles, of which 12 (to Pari Bazaar) are accomplished in an open boat, the last part by river, but for the most part over a widespread brackish lake or lagoon (murddb), abounding in wild fowl, surrounded by reeds, and separated from the sea by a narrow belt of sand. From Pari Bazaar to Rasht the road, piercing through forest and swamp, had for many long years been memorable only for its puddles and pools, its ruts and ruggedness, but it has more recently undergone great improvement. As for the town itself, the tiled houses in the streets, and the lanes, lined with hedge and cottage, in the environs, impart a cheer-fulness to the locality little in unison with the sickly and fever-stricken faces and forms of the inhabitants. Yet the beauty and hazel eyes of the children, with their “ true English pink and white complexions” noticed by Eastwick, are not significant of inherited enervation.
Rasht is the residence of a Russian and an English
consul, and the seat of a local governor nominated by the shMi. It is the centre of the silk trade, which once flourished so greatly in Persia as to show an annual export of nearly a million and a half pounds in weight, valued at £700,000. In 1882, however, the prevalence of disease among the silkworms caused many of the peasants of Gilan to abandon the culture of silk in favour of rice, which became largely exported to Russia. But the geographical position of Rasht gives it a world-wide reputation irrespective of trade. If the roads by Trebizond, Erzeroum, and Tabriz on the one hand and by Poti, Tiflis, and Tabriz on the other can still be considered the two “ commercial highways” from Europe to Persia, the line of land and water communication by Astrakhan and the south-eastern shores of the Caspian has a good claim to be called the true modern highway for travellers and diplomatists moving in the same direction.
Rasht was visited in 1739 by “two English gentlemen from Petersburg,” whose narrative, published three years later, contains much interesting information on the existing relations of Gilan with Russia. It is noteworthy, but not astonishing, to find that in those days the shah (Nadir Kiili) was himself “in a manner the sole merchant or trader in all Persia.” In 1744 Jonas Hanway came there also ; but no fuller account of the capital of Gilan has perhaps ever been recorded than that of Samuel Gmelin in 1771, when Hidaiyat Khan ruled the province, and Karim Khan Zend was sovereign of Persia. Gmelin was received with extraordinary honours, as an imperial officer of Russia, and every opportunity was afforded him of observing the country, its features and produce, and of acquainting himself with the manners and customs of the inhabitants. In 1882 a concession for the construction of a railway from Rasht to Teheran, via Kazvin, was granted to a M. Boital. It is probable that no more practical effect will be given to this scheme than to that of Baron de Reuter some ten years before.
See A Jcnirruy through Russia into Persia (London, 1742); Histoire des Decon-vertes, vol. ii. (Lausanne, 1784); Eastwick, Three Years' Residence in Persia (1864); Telegraph and Travel (1874) ; and published official Reports (1882).
RASK, Rasmus Christian (1787-1832), an eminent scholar and philologist, was born at Brändekilde in the Island of Fünen or Fyen in Denmark in 1787. He studied at the university of Copenhagen, and early distinguished himself by singular talent for the acquisition of languages. In the year 1808 he was appointed assistant keeper of the university library, and some years after wards made professor of literary history. In 1811 he published, in Danish, his Introduction to the Grammar of the Icelandic and other Ancient Northern Languages, from printed and MS. materials which had been accumulated by his predecessors in the same field of research. The reputation which Rask thus acquired recommended him to the Arna-Magnaean Institution, by which he was employed as editor of the Icelandic Lexicon (1814) of Björn Haldor-son, which had long remained in manuscript. About the same time Rask paid a visit to Iceland, where he remained from 1813 to 18l5, and made himself completely master of the language and familiarized himself with the literature, manners, and customs of the natives. To the interest with which they inspired him may probably be attributed the establishment at Copenhagen, early in 1816, of the Icelandic Literary Society, which was mainly instituted by his exertions, and of which he was the first president.
In October 1816 Rask left Denmark on a literary expedition, at the cost of the king, to prosecute inquiries into the languages of the East, and collect manuscripts for the university library at Copenhagen. He proceeded first to Sweden, where he remained two years, in the course of which he made an excursion into Finland, for the purpose of studying the language of that country. Here he published, in Swedish, his Anglo-Saxon Grammar in 1817. In 1818 there appeared at Copenhagen, in Danish, an Essay on the Origin of the Ancient Scandinavian or Icelandic Tongue, in which he traced the affinity of that idiom to the other European languages, particularly to the Latin and the Greek. In the same year he
brought out the first complete editions of Snorro’s Edda and Saunund’s Edda, in the original text, along with Swedish translations of both Eddas, the originals and the versions occupying each two volumes. From Stockholm he went in 1819 to St Petersburg, where he wrote, in German, a paper on “The Languages and Literature of Norway, Iceland, Sweden, and Finland,” which was published in the sixth number of the Vienna Jahrbiicher. From Russia he proceeded through Tartary into Persia, and resided for some time at Tabriz, Teheran, Persepolis, and Shiraz. In about six weeks he made himself sufficiently master of the Persian to be able to converse freely in that language with the natives. In 1820 he embarked at Bushire for Bombay; and during his residence in the latter city he wrote, in English, “ A Dissertation on the Authenticity of the Zend Language” (Trans. Lit. Soc. of Bombay, vol. iii., reprinted with corrections and additions in Trans. It. As. Soc.), From Bombay he proceeded through India to Ceylon, where he arrived in 1822, and soon afterwards wrote, in English, “A Dissertation respecting the best Method of expressing the Sounds of the Indian Languages in European Characters,” which was printed in the Transactions of the Literary and Agricultural Society of Colombo. Rask returned to Copenhagen in May 1823, bringing with him a considerable number of Oriental manuscripts, Persian, Zend, Pali, Singalese, and others, which now enrich the collections of the Danish capital. He died at Copenhagen on 14th November 1832.
During the period between his return from the East and his death Rask published in his native language a Spanish Grammar (1824), a Frisic Grammar (1825), an Essay on Danish Orthography (1826), a Treatise respecting the Ancient Egyptian Chronology and an Italian Grammar (1827), and the Ancient Jewish Chronology previous to Moses (1828). He likewise edited an edition of Schneider’s Danish Grammar for the use of Englishmen (1830), and superintended the English translation of his valuable Anglo-Saxon Grammar by Thorpe (1830). Rask’s services to comparative philology were very great. He was the first to point out the connexion between the ancient Northern and Gothic on the one hand, and of the Lithuanian, Sclavonic, Greek, and Latin on the other, and he also has the credit of being the real discoverer of the so-called “ Grimm’s Law ” for the transmutation of consonants in the transition from the old Indo-European languages to Teutonic, although he only compared Teutonic and Greek, Sanskrit being at the time unknown to him. Rask’s facility in the acquisition of languages was extraordinary; in 1822 he was master of no less than twenty-five languages and dialects, and is stated to have studied twice as many. His numerous philological manuscripts were transferred to the king’s library at Copenhagen. Rask’s Anglo-Saxon, Danish, and Icelandic Grammars have been given to the English public by Thorpe, Repp, and Dasent respectively.
RASKOLNIKS. See Russia.
RASPBERRY. See Horticulture, vol. xii. p. 276.
RASTATT, or Rastadt, a small town in Baden, is situated on the Murg, 4 miles above its junction with the Rhine and 12 miles south-west of Carlsruhe. It is a fortress of great strength, commanding the passage through the Black Forest. The only notable building is the old palace of the margraves of Baden, a large Renaissance edifice in red sandstone, now partly used for military purposes and containing a collection of pictures, antiquities, and trophies from the Turkish wars. The industry of Rastatt is almost confined to local needs, and the town may be said to live on the garrison, which forms nearly half of its population (1880) of 12,356. Two-thirds of the inhabitants are Roman Catholics.
Previous to the close of the 17tli century Rastatt was a place of no importance, but after its destruction by the French in 1689 it was rebuilt on a larger scale by Margrave Lewis, the well-known imperial general in the Turkish wars, and became the residence of the margraves of Baden down to 1771. In 1714 the preliminary articles of the peace between Austria and France, ending the War of the Spanish Succession, were signed here. The congress of Rastatt in 1797-99 had for its object the re-arrangement of the map of Germany by providing compensation for those princes who had relinquished to France territory on the left bank of the Rhine.
It dispersed, however, without result, war having again broken out between France and Austria. As the French plenipotentiaries were leaving the town they were waylaid and assassinated by Hungarian hussars. The object and instigators of this deed have remained shrouded in mystery, but the balance of evidence seems to indicate that the Austrian authorities had ordered a violent seizure of the ambassadors’ papers, to avoid damaging disclosures with regard to Austrian designs on Bavaria, and that the soldiers had simply exceeded their instructions. The Baden revolution of 1849 began at Rastatt with a military mutiny and ended here a few months later with the capture of the town by the Prussians. Rastatt is now a fortress of the German empire.
RASTELL, the name of two early English printers.
I.    John Rastell or Rastall, printer and author, was born at London towards the end of the 15th century. He was educated at Oxford, and married Elizabeth, the sister of Sir Thomas More. He was a man of considerable learning and, although not bred to the law like his son, showed his devotion to legal studies by his writings. He went into the printing business about the year 1514, and produced Liber assisarum, with a preface by himself. His first dated publication was Abbreviamentum librorum legum Anglorum (1517). He also printed The Wydow Edyth (1525), A Dyaloge of Syr Thomas More (1529), and a number of other books. The last dated piece from his press was Fabyl’s Ghoste (1533), a poem. He lived “at the sygne of the meremayd at Powlysgate.” John Rastell, the Jesuit, who has been frequently confounded with him, was no relation. By his will, dated 20th April 1536, he appointed Henry VIII. one of his executors; administration was granted on the renunciation of the executorship by the king on 18th July 1536. It is a curious document, and contains a long account of the testator’s religious belief. Rastell was occupied upon a concordance at the time of his death; its publication was provided for by the will (see Arber’s Registers of Comp, of Stationers, ii. 8, 9). He died at London, leaving two sons,—William, printer and judge (see below), and John, a justice of the peace. ’
Rastell’s chief writings are the following. The Pastyme of People ; the Chronycles of dyuers Realmys and most specyally of the Rcalme of Englonde (1529), now of extreme rarity ; a note in the catalogue of the British Museum says, “the only perfect copy known.” It ranges from the earliest times to Richard III., and was edited by Dibdin in 1811 for the quarto series of English chronicles. A new Boke of Purgatory, 1530, being dialogues on the subject between “Comyngo au Almayne a Christen Man, and one Gyngemyn a Turke.” This was answered by John Frith, producing Rastell’s Apology against John Fryth, also answered by the latter. The controversy is said to have ended in Rastell’s conversion to the Reformed religion. Expositioncs terminorum legum anglorum (in French, also translated into English, 1527 ; reprinted as recently as 1812 as Lcs Termes de la Ley). The Abbreviacion of Statutis (1520), the first abridgment of the statutes in English, with an interesting preface by Rastell, giving reasons for the innovation ; down to 1625 fifteen editions appeared.
II.    William Rastell (c. 1508-1565), printer and judge, son of the above, was born in London about 1508. At the age of seventeen he went to the university of Oxford, but did not take a degree, being probably called home to superintend his father’s business. The first work which bears his own imprint was A Dyaloge of Sir Thomas More (1531), a reprint of the edition published by his father in 1529. He also brought out a few law books, some poetry, an edition of Fabyaris Cronycle (1533), and The Apologye (1533) and The Supplycacyon of Soulys of his uncle Sir Thomas More. His office was “ in Fletestrete in saynt Brydys chyrche yarde.” He became a student at Lincoln’s Inn on 12th September 1532, and gave up the printing business two years later. In 1547 he was appointed reader. On account of his religion he left England for Louvain; but upon the accession of Mary he returned, and was made sergeant-at-law in October 1555. He was one of the seven sergeants who gave the famous feast that year in the Inner Temple Hall (see Dugdale’s Orig. Jurid., 1680, p. 128). His patent as judge of the Queen’s Bench
was granted on 27th October 1558. One of his predecessors, John Boteler, had also been printer and judge. Rastell continued on the bench until 1562, when he retired to Louvain without the queen’s licence. By virtue of a special commission issued by the barons of the Exchequer on the occasion an inventory of his goods and chattels was taken. It furnishes an excellent idea of the modest nature of the law library (consisting of twenty-four works) and of the chambers of an Elizabethan judge (see Law Magazine, February 1844). He died at Louvain on 27th August 1565.
It is difficult to distinguish between the books written by him and those by his father. The following are believed to be his : A Collecdon of all the Statutes (1557), A Table collected of the Yeares of the Kynges of Englande (1561), both frequently reprinted witli continuations, and A Collecdon of Entrees, of Declaracions, &c. (1566), also frequently reprinted. The entries are not of Rastell’s own drawing, but have been selected from printed and MS. collections ; their “ pointed brevity and precision ” are commended by Story. He supplied tables or indexes to several law books, and edited La novel natura brevium de Monsieur Anton. Fitzherbert and The Workes of Sir T. More in the English Tonge (1557). He is also stated to have written a life of Sir T. More, but it has not come down to us.
See Bale, Scriptores maioris Brytannise, 1557-59 ; Pits, Relationes hist. de rebus Angl., 1619; Tanner, Bibliotheca, 1748; Ames, Typogr. Antiq., by Dibdin, 1816, iii. pp. 81, 370 ; Wood, Athens; Oxonienses, 1813, i. pp. 100, 343; Dodd, Church History, 1739, ii. p. 149; Foss, Biographia Jurídica, 1870; Reeves, History of the Engl. Law, 1869, iii. p. 432; Marvin, Legal Bibliography, 1847 ; Clarke, Bibliotheca Legum,, 1819; Bridgman, Legal Bibliography, 1807; Catalogue of Books in the British Museum before 16lJ), 1884.
RASTRICK, an urban sanitary district in the West Riding of Yorkshire, is situated on an acclivity near the Calder, and on the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway 5 miles south-east of Halifax and 3J north of Huddersfield. It possesses woollen and silk manufactures, and there are stone quarries in the neighbourhood. The ancient chapel of St Matthew was replaced in 1798 by a church in the Grecian style, which was restored in 1879. A school was founded in 1701 by Mrs Mary Law, who also endowed a charity for poor widows. The population of the urban sanitary district (area, 1371 acres) in 1871 was 5896, and in 1881 it was 8039.
RAT. Under the article Mouse (vol. xvii. p. 5) an account has been already given of the relationships and chief allies of the animals known as rats, and the present article is confined to the two species to which the name rat is most strictly applicable. These are the so-called old English black rat, Mus rattus, and the common brown or Norway rat, M. decumanus. The first of these is a comparatively small and lightly built-animal, seldom exceeding about 7 inches in length, with a slender head, large ears (see fig., A), and a long thin scaly tail about 8 or 9 inches in length.
Its colour is, at least in all temperate climates, a peculiar shining bluish black, rather lighter on the belly, the ears, feet, and tail being also black; but in tropical regions it is represented by a grey or rufous-backed and white-bellied race to which the name of Alexandrian rat {M. alexandrinus) has been applied, owing to its having been first discovered at Alexandria, but which cannot be considered to be really specifically distinct from the true black rat. Its disposi-
tion is milder and more tamable than that of M. decumanus, and it is therefore the species to which the tame white and pied rats kept as pets commonly belong. It is said that in some parts of Germany M. raft us has been lately reasserting itself and increasing at the expense of M. decumanus,, but this seems very unlikely from the previous history of the two animals (compare Mouse, vol. xvii. p. 5).
The brown or Norway rat, M. decumanus, is a heavily built animal, growing to 8 or 9 inches in length, with a bluff rounded head, small ears (see fig., B), and a comparatively short tail,—always shorter than the head and body combined, and generally not longer than the body alone. Its colour is a uniform greyish brown above, and white below, the ears, feet, and tail being flesh-coloured; melanistic varieties are by no means rare, and these are often mistaken for true black rats, but the differences in size and proportions form a ready means of distinguishing the two. The brown rat is believed to be a native of western China, where a wild race has been recently discovered so like it as to be practically indistinguishable. The two species agree fully in their predaceous habits, omnivorous diet, and great fecundity. They bear four or five times in the year from four to ten blind and naked young, which are in their turn able to breed at an age of about six months. The time of gestation is about twenty days.    (o. T.)
RATAFIA is a term applied to a flavouring essence, the basis of which is the essential oil of bitter almonds. Peach kernels are properly the source of ratafia, but any of the other substances yielding bitter almond oil is used. The name “ratafia” is also applied in France to a variety of liquors, and from Dantzic a special liqueur is sent out under the name of “ ratafia ” (see vol. xiv. p. 686).
RATEL. The animals known as Ratels or Honey-badgers are small clumsy-looking creatures of about the size and appearance of the true badgers, and belong to the same natural group of the Carnivora, namely, the subfamily Melinas of the large family Mustelidse, which contains the otters, badgers, stoats, weasels, <kc. (see Mammalia, vol. xv. p. 440). Of the ratels two species are generally recognized, viz., the Indian Ratel (Mellivora indica), a
native of all the peninsula of India, and the African (M. ratel), which ranges over the whole of the African continent —although by some authors the West African race is considered to represent a third distinct species, which has
been named M. leueonota. All the ratels are of very much the same colour, namely, iron-grey on the upper parts of the head, body, and tail, and black below, a style of coloration rather rare among mammals, as the upper side of the body is in the great majority darker than the lower. Their body is stout and thickly built ; the legs are short and strong, and armed, especially on the anterior pair, with long curved fossorial claws ; the tail is short ; and the ear-conches are reduced to mere rudiments. These modifications are all in relation to a burrowing mode of life, for which the ratels are among the best adapted of all carnivores. The skull is conical, stout, and heavy, and the teeth, although sharper and less rounded than those of their allies the badgers, are yet far less suited to a purely carnivorous diet than those of such typical Mustelidæ as the stoats, weasels, and martens. The two species of ratel may be distinguished by the fact that the African has a distinct white line round the body at the junction of the grey of the upper side with the black of the lower, while in the Indian this line is absejit ; the teeth also of the former are on the whole decidedly larger, rounder, and heavier than those of the latter. In spite of these differences, however, the two ratels are so nearly allied that they might almost be considered to be merely geographical races of a single widely spread species.
The following account of the Indian ratel is extracted from Dr Judson’s Mammals of India·. — “The Indian badger is found throughout the whole of India, from the extreme south to the foot of the Himalayas, chiefly in hilly districts, where it has greater facilities for constructing the holes and dens in which it lives ; but also in the north of India in alluvial plains, where the banks of large rivers afford equally suitable localities wherein to make its lair. It is stated to live usually in pairs, and to eat rats, birds, frogs, white ants, and various insects, and in the north of India it is accused of digging out dead bodies, and is popularly known as the grave-digger. It doubtless also, like its Cape congener, occasionally partakes of honey. It is often very destructive to poultry, and I have known of several having been trapped and killed whilst committing such depredations in Central India and in the northern Circars. In confinement the Indian badger is quiet and will partake of vegetable food, fruits, rice, &c. ”    ' (O. T. )
RATHENOW, a small town of Prussia in the province of Brandenburg, lies on the right bank of the Havel, 44 miles to the west of Berlin. It is known for its “Rathenow stones,” i.e., bricks made of the clay of the Havel, and for its spectacles and optical instruments, which are exported to various parts of the world. It contains no buildings of note. The population in 1880 was 11,394, including 174 Roman Catholics and 68 Jews.
Rathenow has enjoyed the privileges of a town since 1217. In 1394 it was taken and partly destroyed by the archbishop of Magdeburg. During the Thirty Years’ War it was repeatedly occupied by the opposing troops, and in 1675 it was cleverly snatched from the Swedish garrison by the Great Elector.
RATIBOR (Polish Raciborz), a town of Prussian Silesia in the department of Oppeln, is pleasantly situated on the left bank of the Oder at the point where the river becomes navigable, about 12 miles from the Austrian frontier. The most prominent buildings are the handsome courthouse by Schinkel and the Modern Gothic church ; on the right bank of the Oder is the old château of the dukes of Ratibor. The town is the seat of a diversified industry, the chief products of which are machinery and railway gear, iron wares, tobacco and cigars, paper, sugar, furniture, and glass. Trade is carried on in these articles and in agricultural produce, and hemp and vegetables are largely grown in the environs. The population in 1880 was 18,373, or, including the immediately adjacent villages, 27,100, five-sixths of whom are Roman Catholics. In the town itself, where there are only about 2500 Poles, German is chiefly spoken, but Polish and Czechish dialects are predominant in the neighbourhood.
Ratibor, which received municipal privileges at the close of the , 13th century, was formerly the capital of an independent duchy,
380 square miles in extent, which existed as such from 1288 to 1532 and afterwards passed successively into the hands of Austria and Prussia (1742). In 1815 a small mediate principality was formed out of the old lordship of Ratibor and certain ecclesiastical domains, and was conferred upon the landgrave Amadeus of Hessen-Rothenburg as compensation for Rhenish territory absorbed by Prussia. The title of “ duke of Ratibor ” was revived for his successor in 1840.
RATIONALISM. In modern usage the term “ rationalism ” is employed almost exclusively to denote a theological tendency, method, or system, and is then applied in a narrower and a wider sense. In its wider sense, which is most common in English theological literature, it is the name of that mode of thought generally which finds the final test of religious truth in the human understanding, conscience, or reason, and particularly in the understanding. In its narrower sense, which is almost the only sense it bears in Germany, it denotes a definite school, or rather phase of theological thought, and a phase of thought which has now been outlived. It is with rationalism in this limited sense and as a tendency of German theological thought that this article deals. Rationalism had as its antitheses on the one hand supernaturalism, and on the other naturalism or simple deism. The matter of the contention between the rationalists and these two classes of opponents was supernatural revelation—its necessity, its existence, its possibility. The naturalists denied revelation altogether; the supernaturalists maintained the fact of a supernatural revelation, possessing an authority above “reason,” though capable of being proved by “reason.” The rationalists did not deny the fact of a revelation, though in the end they ignored it and claimed the right to submit every supposed revelation to the judgment of the “reason” or the moral sense. The rationalists themselves are, however, divided by some German writers into two classes—relative and absolute—those who hold that the matter of revelation is identical with the truths of reason, but admit that of necessity, or as a matter of fact, revelation anticipated reason, and those who really call in question the fact of a revelation, without going quite the length of the naturalists in the rejection of Christianity. Kant drew a distinction between the “rationalist” and the “pure rationalist,” defining the former as one who maintains that natural religion alone is essential, and the latter as one who admits the fact of a supernatural revelation but denies that it is a part of religion to know and accept it.
German rationalism was a specific theological form of the general intellectual movement of the last century known as “ illuminism ” or Aufklärung; but, while the illu-minati generally ended in rejecting Christianity, the rationalists retained and defended it in a form approved by the logical understanding or the moral sense. While rationalism, as a child of the general intellectual movement of the age in which it appeared, owed much to the philosophy, science, and humanism of the intellectual life of Europe, as a specially theological tendency it was powerfully influenced by English deistical writings. Both Lechler and Ritschl assign to these writings a great immediate effect on the development of German rationalism. Of German thinkers it was especially the philosopher Wolff—who threw into a compact and systematic form, suited for German students, the philosophy of Leibnitz—who initiated German theologians into the rationalistic habit and method, though Wolff himself was a supernaturalist. The condition of the German church and the state of theology also contributed to the creation of rationalism. The hard intellectual orthodoxy of Lutheranism had already done its part towards producing the pietistic movement, and, while pietism helped to free men’s minds from bondage to the Lutheran creeds and once more directed attention to the
Bible, the cold intellectual habit of orthodoxy nurtured the same habit of rationalism while it failed to satisfy it, and so created a reaction against itself. Thus both orthodoxy and pietism were agents in calling forth rationalism, which was to prove the most dangerous opponent to both. More than one of the foremost rationalists had passed through the school of pietism.
Regarding rationalism as the opponent of supernaturalism and naturalism, and as an opponent which appealed in the conflict almost exclusively to either the logical understanding or the moral sense as the criterion of religious truth, it may be said to have existed in Germany for nearly a century (c. 1740-1836), and to have flourished about half that length of time (c. 1760-1810),—that is, it took its rise simultaneously with the publication of Wolff’s writings (1736-50) and the translation into German of the works of the English deists (Tindal’s Christianity as Old as the Creation was translated in 1741), displayed its greatest strength in Sender's critical works (1760-73) and in Kant’s philosophy (178193־), began then to decline gradually under the influence of the works of Herder, Jacobi, Fichte (in his later period), and Hegel, and at last died out when Schleiermacher especially, in the department of theology proper, and Baur and Strauss, amongst others, in the department of Biblical criticism, had given currency to ideas and issues which rendered its main contentions objectless and its criteria of religious truth invalid.
The English deists, the German illuminati, and the French philosophers had before the middle of the last century, with a vast array of argument, called in question the idea of a supernatural revelation, and had seriously attacked the supernatural origin of the Hebrew and Christian Scriptures. Christian Wolff undertook the defence, and claimed to have demonstrated the supernatural revelation of the Bible. He made the old distinction between natural and revealed religion of fundamental importance, and maintained that demonstrable truths alone can be regarded as part of natural religion. Revealed religion he drew solely from the Scriptures, and sought to prove by a chain of reasoning and historical evidence their divine origin. Thus in reality the intellect alone was constituted the faculty for ultimately determining the truth of revelation as well as for constructing a natural religion. The general adoption of the distinction between natural and revealed religion, of the appeal to logical and historical evidence and argument for proof of the truths of both, and of the supposition that the truths of natural religion could be demonstrated while those of revealed religion were above, if not contrary to reason, and rested solely on the authority of Scripture, naturally divided theologians into two hostile camps, and proved, contrary to Wolff’s expectations, more favourable to the naturalists and rationalists than to the supernaturalists. If it was admitted by all that the appeal in the contention was to be to the understanding, and the religious nature and higher reason were left out of account, and if, moreover, the truths of natural religion —God, duty, immortality—were supposed by all to be demonstrable, supernatural revelation was certain in that age to be put to great disadvantage. The result of Wolff’s philosophy was a natural theology, a utilitarian system of morals, without any religious fervour or Christian profundity. Wolff’s philosophy thus inaugurated in Germany a theological period corresponding, in its way, with the period in England between 1688 and 1750, when “Christianity appeared to be made for nothing but to be ‘proved,’ ” and the only test to be applied was “ reason,” which was simply the philosophy in vogue. In both cases religion was regarded as substantially a set of doctrines, revelation as the publication of them, and God as teaching them after the most anthropomorphic manner. Ho profound concep-
tion had been formed of either religion or revelation, and none at all of their relation to each other, while the idea of God was simply that of the deists.
It was in the application of its principles and method (thus brought into vogue) to Biblical studies that rationalism won its greatest triumphs, and really accomplished its greatest measure of good work. Johann Salomo Semler (1725-1791), the father of modern Biblical criticism, as the Germans call him, was the greatest representative of the school in this department. A pietist by education, with something of Gottfried Arnold’s liking for heretics and all his dislike of ecclesiasticism, but with none of Arnold’s mysticism, a man of immense learning, without any clear and systematic management of it, he was the first German to apply the strict principles of historical criticism, in conjunction with the rationalistic truths and errors of his day, to the study of the Scriptures and ecclesiastical history, particularly the history of doctrines. He assailed with all the wealth of his learning the traditional view of the limits and authority of the Biblical canon especially, and having, as he held, demonstrated its human origin and fallibility, he proceeded to deal freely with the books composing it, as sharing the failings common to everything human. He found the Scriptures pervaded with “ local ideas,” and his Christianity was really limited to the “natural religion” of the deists and the moral truths taught by Christ. As a man who had been under a pietistic training, he was, it is true, unwilling to refer to the understanding alone for evidence of the truths of Christianity, but his enlargement of the test is confined to the admission of an appeal to the measure of virtue and happiness produced. By this extended test he tries the matter of the Scriptures, assigning to his category of local ideas “ whatever is not adapted to make men wise unto their true advantage.” The supernatural origin of the Scriptures as writings and most of the miracles recorded in them he rejected; but, on the other hand, he was a vigorous opponent of the adversaries of Christianity and of the naturalists who denied revelation altogether,—Reim-arus, for instance, the author of the Wolfenbüttel Fragmente. Other decided rationalists contemporaneous with Semler were Teller (1734-1804), Eberhard (1739-1809), and Steinbart (1738-1809), who all agreed in confounding religion with morality, and in reducing Christianity to a popularization of utilitarian morals.
Meanwhile the profounder spirits of the nation—Lessing, Herder, Hamann, and others—were conceiving truer ideas of the nature of religion, of the human conditions of revelation, and of the character of the Bible and the mission of Christianity. It was, however, Kant who produced the greatest immediate effect on the history of rationalism. Himself a rationalist, regarding religion only as a form of morality, and revelation as at most a possible aid to the earlier propagation of moral principles, he nevertheless started doubts and ideas which sealed the doom of rationalism in its first shallow form. There was an end of the demonstrable natural religion of Wolff when once Kant’s criticism of the proofs of the existence of God and of the immortality of the soul met with even partial acceptance. The breath of lofty mysticism which inspired his grand ethical system was also fatal to the cold shallow reasoning and commonplace utilitarianism of previous rationalists. Yet, though Kant proclaimed principles which compelled rationalism to assume other positions, and which really contained within them the seeds of its destruction, he remained himself a rationalist, for the reason especially that he never advanced to a profound conception of the nature of either religion or revelation and the conditions and relations of both. His fruitful idea of the relation of revelation to a community rather than to an individual
he was unable to apply properly to the revelation contained in the Bible. Though his morality was something infinitely beyond 18th-century utilitarianism, it still constituted for him religion, and the only test he applied to a professed revelation was that it must contain the purest moral teaching. Fichte, accepting Kant’s ethical principles, taught that a revelation—that is, proclamation of God as the moral lawgiver of the world—might be a necessity in the case of a degeneration of mankind to such an extent that the idea of goodness should be lost. On the other hand, Fries and Jacobi took up the position of Kant regarding the limitations of human knoivledge of religious truth, and still further prepared for the advance beyond rationalism by claiming for man a special religious faculty, under the names of faith, feeling, or a sense of the infinite. Fichte, in his later period, made an advance in the same direction, abandoning the abstract ethical position of Kant by an appeal to love as the supreme principle in God and man. He thus reached a position more suited for the apprehension of the nature of religion, and he recognized in the workings of genius—with its incomprehensible light and movements—manifestations analogous to the phenomena of revelation. Meantime, the rationalists amongst theologians continued their work of reducing the Bible, with its history, miracles, and doctrines, by one means or another, into harmony with their notions of a rational and useful moral revelation, though for the most part they did not acknowledge the claims of the Old Testament to be considered a revelation at all, or at most a revelation for the childhood of the race. The accounts of miracles in the Bible were either denied or explained away as natural occurrences, or as poetical and Oriental phraseology, while the doctrines of the Bible and the creeds were diluted into religious or moral commonplaces. As representative Biblical scholars of this class J. G. Eichhorn (1752-1827) and H. E. G. Paulus may be mentioned, as representative theologians Henke (1752-1809), Wegscheider (1771-1849), and Rohr (1752-1848).
But early in the new century the triumph of a profounder philosophy of religion and of a worthier treatment of religious systems and the records of revelation began rapidly to make itself felt. Schleiermacher once more carried religion from the confined and frigid regions of the understanding and the distant heights of abstract morals into the vaster and yet nearer, warmer and yet clearer, world of feeling. Following Herder, he annihilated the rationalistic distinction between natural and revealed religion by claiming revelation for all religion and religions, and he mediated in the fruitless contention of rationalism versus supernaturalism by vindicating a supernatural element for the religious life and Christianity, while at the same time he justified rationalism in its rejection of any infraction of the laws of nature. He put an end to the conception of revelation as the communication of doctrine by substituting for it the, at all events, profounder and truer view that it consists in a fundamental affection of the whole religious nature, giving it a new and special direction, the organs of it being historical personalities endowed with supreme religious genius. Hegel and Schelling contributed in other ways, particularly by substituting another idea of God and nature, to the decay of rationalism. Amongst Biblical critics De Wette, under the influence of Herder’s poetic insight into early literatures and of Fries’s religious philosophy, contributed largely to a truer appreciation of the Bible as literature and the record of revelation than such scholars as Eichhorn and Paulus had attained to. In the year 1828 Dr Pusey could inform English theologians that the school had had its day, and early in the third decade of the century Hase was able to sum up the work of the school, which was then practically defunct,
though some of its ablest representatives continued for some years to defend its positions. Hase’s summary is, that rationalism failed to recognize the historical forces that condition all religious life and progress; that it necessarily issued in a barren religion of the intellect; that in the last instance it drew its decisions, not from the depths of the soul, but from a shallow popular philosophy which overlooked the rights of religious feeling; that on that account it kept its God of the outward universe as far removed from men’s hearts and lives as possible; but that, nevertheless, it was through it especially that a breach between modern culture and the church was avoided and the banner of free inquiry was kept waving. Even men as far removed from rationalism as Tholuck, Dorner, Ritschl, and Alexander Schweizer acknowledge that it was a means, however imperfect, of effectually upholding in the church the great principle that religious truth has an intimate affinity to man’s nature and must be freely examined and intelligently appropriated. Tholuck pronounces it not an outward skin disease in the history of Protestantism, but an integral part of that history and a phase of its development, in some respects abnormal, in others normal and natural.
Literature.—Staudlin, Geschichte des Rationalismus und Supra-naturalismus, 1826 ; Amand Saintes, Hist. crit. du Rationalismc en Allemagne, 1841 ; H. J. Rose, The State of Protestantism in Germany described, 2d ed. 1829 ; E. B. Pusey, Historical Inquiry into the Causes of the Rationalist Character lately predominant in the Theology of Germany, 1828 ; Tholuck, Vorgeschichte des Rat., 1853-61, and Geschichte des Rat., 1865 ; Hase, Theolog. Strcit-schriften, 1834 Hagenbach, Kirchengeschichte des 18 und 19 Jahrh., 1856, 3d ed. ; Heinrich Lang, Pin Gang durch die christ-liche Welt, 2d ed. 1870, p. 110 sq. ; Diestel, Geschichte des Alten Testaments in der christlichen Kirche, 1869, p. 672 sq.; Ritschl, Christ. Lehre von der Rechtfertigung, &c., 1870, vol. i. cc. vii.-ix. ; the Histories of Protestant theology by Frank, Dorner, and Gass.    (J. F. S.)
RATISBON (German Regensburg), an ancient city of Bavaria, the seat of a bishop, and the capital of the Upper Palatinate, is pleasantly situated on the right bank of the Danube, opposite the influx of the Regen, from which it derives its German name. It lies almost exactly in the centre of the kingdom, about 65 miles to the north-east of Munich and 53 miles to the south-east of Nuremberg. On the other side of the river is the small town of Stadt-am-Hof, connected with Ratisbon by a long stone bridge of the 12th century, above and below which are the islands of the Obere and Untere Worth. In external appearance Ratisbon is quaint and romantic, presenting almost as faithful a picture of a town of the early Middle Ages as Nuremberg does of the later. Most of the streets are narrow and irregular, but spacious promenades have been laid out on the site of the old fortifications. One. of the most characteristic features in its architecture is the number of strong loopholed towers attached to the more ancient dwellings, recalling a day when civic broils were of frequent recurrence. The interesting “street of the ambassadors ” is so called because it contained the residences of most of the ambassadors to the German diet, whose coats-of-arms may still be seen on many of the houses.
The cathedral of Ratisbon, though small in size, is a very interesting example of pure German Gothic, diverging in several points from the type elaborated in France. It was founded in 1275 and completed in 1634, with the exception of the towers, which were added during a recent restoration. The details are very harmonious and pleasing, and the interior contains numerous interesting monuments, including one of Peter Yischer’s masterpieces. Adjoining the cloisters are two chapels of earlier date than the cathedral itself, one of which, known as the “old cathedral,” goes back perhaps to the 8th century. The Schotten-kirche, a plain Romanesque basilica of the 12th century, derives its name from the monastery of Irish Benedictines (“Scoti”) to which it was attached; the principal doorway is covered with very singular grotesque carvings, the meaning of which remains a mystery. The old parish church of St Ulrich is a good example of the Transition
style of the 13th century. Other specimens of the Romanesque basilica style are the church of Obermiinster, dating from 1010, and the abbey church of St Emmeran, built in the 13th century and remarkable as one of the few German churches with a detached belfry. The beautiful cloisters of the ancient abbey, one of the oldest in Germany, are still in fair preservation. In 1809 the conventual buildings were converted into a palace for the prince of Thurn and Taxis, hereditary postmaster-general of the old German empire. The town-house, a somewhat gloomy pile, dating in part from the 14th century, contains the rooms occupied by the imperial diet of Germany from 1663 to 1806. An historical interest also attaches to the Golden Cross Inn, where Charles Y. made the acquaintance of the fair Barbara Blumberger, the mother of Don John of Austria (b. 1547). The promenade is adorned with a bust of Kepler, who died at Ratisbon in 1630. Perhaps the most pleasing modern building in the city is the Gothic villa of the king of Bavaria on the bank of the Danube. Among the chief manufactures of Ratisbon are iron and steel wares, pottery, parquet flooring, and lead pencils. Boat-building is also prosecuted, and a brisk transit trade is carried on in salt, grain, and timber. In 1880 the town contained 34,516 inhabitants, of whom 27,844 were Roman Catholics, 5995 Protestants, and 675 Jews. Stadt-am-Hof, which practically forms a suburb of Ratisbon, contained 3392 inhabitants.
Near Ratisbon are two very handsome classical buildings erected by Louis I. of Bavaria, with the aid of the architect Klenze, as national monuments of German patriotism and greatness. The more imposing of the two is the Walhalla, a costly reproduction of the Parthenon, erected as a Teutonic temple of fame on a hill rising from the Danube at Donaustauf, 6 miles to the east. The massive substructions of the temple somewhat dwarf the building itself when seen from a distance, and the choice of a classic model for a German Pantheon seems somewhat incongruous, but after these deductions are made it still remains a magnificent and imposing structure. The interior, which is as rich as coloured marbles, gilding, and sculptures can make it, contains the busts of more than a hundred German worthies. The second of King Louis’s buildings is the Befreiungshalle at Kelheim, 14 miles above Ratisbon, a large circular building, which has for its aim the glorification of the heroes of the war of liberation in 1813.
The early Celtic settlement of Radcspona was chosen by the Romans, who named it Castra Regina, as the centre of their power on the upper Danube, and it soon attained considerable importance. It afterwards became the seat of the dukes of Bavaria and one of the main bulwarks of the East Frankish monarchy ; and it was also the focus from which Christianity spread over southern Germany. St Emmeran .founded an abbey here in the middle of the 7th century, and St Boniface established the bishopric about a hundred years later. Ratisbon acquired the freedom of the empire in the 13tli century and was for a time the most flourishing city in southern Germany. It became the chief seat of the trade with India and the Levant, and the boatmen of Ratisbon are frequently heard of as expediting the journeys of the crusaders. The city was loyally Ghibelline in its sympathies and was a favourite residence of the German emperors. .Numerous diets were held here from time to time, and after 1663 it became the regular place of meeting of the German diet. The Reformation found only temporary acceptance at Ratisbon and was met by a counter-reformation inspired by the Jesuits. Before this period the city had almost wholly lost its commercial importance, owing to the changes in the great highways of trade. Ratisbon had its due share in the Thirty Years’ and other wars, and is said to have suffered in all no fewer than seventeen sieges. In 1807 the town and bishopric were assigned to the prince primate Dalberg and in 1810 they were ceded to Bavaria. After the battle of Eggmiihl (1809) the Austrians retired upon Ratisbon, and the pursuing French defeated them again beneath its walls and reduced great part of the city to ashes.
RATLAM or Rutlam, a native state of India, in the Western Mahva Agency (Central India Agency), lying between 23° 2' and 23° 36' N. lat. and 74° 42' and 75° 17' E. long., with an area of 729 square miles, and a population (1881) of 87,314 (males 45,779, females 41,535),— Hindus numbering 54,034, Mohammedans 9913, Jains 6038, Christians 19, and aboriginals 17,297. Its revenue from all sources in 1881-82 was estimated at ¿6130,000. The Nimach State Railway connecting Indore with Nimach and Nasirabad ¡)asses by Ratlam town. This town, which is one of the principal seats of the opium trade of Malwa, is superior to most cities in Indore, and has good bazaars. Its population in 1881 amounted to 31,066 (16,544 males and 14,522 females).
Ratlam state is held as tributary to Sindhia; but in 1819 an arrangement was made by which the raja agreed to pay an annual tribute amounting to about £6600, while Sindhia engaged never to send any troops into the country or to interfere with the internal administration. This tribute was assigned by the treaty of 1844 between the British Government and Sindhia in part payment of the Gwalior contingent. It is now paid to the British Government.
RATNAGIRI or Rtttna.gherry, a British district of India, in the Konkan division of the Bombay presidency, with an area of 3922 square miles. It lies between 15° 40' and 18° 5' N. lat. and 73° 5' and 73° 55' E. long., and is bounded on the N. by the Savitri river, separating it from the Janjira Agency, and by Kolaba district; on the E. by the Western Ghats, dividing it from the districts of Satara and Belgaum and the native state of Kolhapur; on the S., where it is reduced to a strip of sea-coast not more than 4 miles wide, by the Portuguese possessions of Goa; and on the W. by the Arabian Sea. The district forms a belt between the Ghats and the sea, and its general character is rocky and rugged; nearly all the fertile land lies on the banks of the streams which intersect the country. The coast, about 150 miles in length, is almost uniformly rocky and dangerous. At intervals of about 10 miles a river or bay opens, sufficiently large to form a secure harbour for native craft, and the promontories at the river-mouths are almost invariably crowned with the ruins of an old fort. The rivers and creeks are generally navigable for about 20 miles, and afford great facilities for a coasting trade. The denudation of the forests has apparently tended to promote deposits of silt; but active measures have of late been taken to preserve and extend the forest area. Tigers, leopards, bears, bison, wild boar, sambhar deer, and hyaenas are found in the forests on the
slopes and near the foot of the Sahyadri Hills. At the beginning of British rule there were no roads, and traffic was confined to places where there was water carriage; but a network of roads has now been made, and the opening of the Ghat roads to cart traffic has revolutionized the trade and concentrated it at Chiplun, Rajapur, and Yengurla, which form the gates of a considerable traffic to and from the Deccan. The exports are salt fish, shell-lime, and cocoa-nuts, and the imports comprise food grains, molasses, tobacco, chillies, ground nuts, turmeric, ghi, blankets, piece goods, and iron. The mean temperature, as registered at Ratnagiri station, is 78°6־, and the average annual rainfall is 10358־ inches.
In 1881 the population of Ratnagiri district was 997,090 (473,053 males and 524,037 females),—Hindus numbering 921,046, Mohammedans 71,051, and Christians 3275. The district contains three towns with a population exceeding 10,000,—Ratnagiri (see below)! Malwan (15,565), and Chiplun (12,065). Since it came under British rule the number of inhabitants has increased threefold ; all the land is occupied, and the population is greater than the land can feed. Food has in consequence to he imported, and the condition of the people would be deplorable were it not their custom to move in large numbers to Bombay in search of employment, where they earn good wages and return to spend it in their homes. The chief crops are grain and rice. The extent of arable land is small, but on the whole cultivation is good. Of 1,117,686 acres under actual cultivation in 1883-84, of v׳hich 38,865 vr ere twice cropped, cereals occupied 1,020,583 and pulses 41,733 acres. There are no manufactures of any importance ; but the school of industry at Ratnagiri possesses steam saw-mills, and undertakes wood and iron work of all descriptions. The revenue of the district in 1883-84 amounted to £126,596, of which the land-tax contributed £91,429.
Ratnagiri formed part of the dominions of the peshwa, and was annexed by the British Government in 1818 on the overthrow of Baji Rao.
RATNAGIRI or Rtttnagherry, chief town of the above district, is situated on the Konkan coast in lb3 59' X. lat. and 73° 19' E. long., 136 miles south by east of Bombay. A leading industry connected with the town is the sardine fishery, which usually takes place in January and February, and engages fleets of canoes. A single net-caster will fill his canoe in the course of a morning. The lighthouse w־as erected in 1867 ; its light, visible 18 miles distant, is 250 feet above high water. The population of the town in 1881 numbered 12,616 (males 6418, females 6198).
RATRAMNUS, a theological controversialist of some mark, who flourished in the 9th century, was a monk of the Benedictine abbey of Corbie near Amiens, but beyond this fact almost nothing of his personal history has been preserved. He is now best known by his treatise on the Eucharist {De corpore et sanguine Domini liber), in which he controverted the doctrine of transubstantiation as taught in a similar work by his contemporary Radbertus Pascliasius (see above, p. 210). In the controversy about election, when appealed to by Charles the Bald, he wrote two books De prsedestinatione Dei, in which he maintained the doctrine of a twofold predestination, nor did the fate of Gottschalk deter him from supporting the view of that unfortunate theologian against Hincmar as to the orthodoxy of the expression “trina Deltas.” Ratramnus perhaps won most glory in his own day by his Contra Graecorum opposita, in four books (868), a much valued contribution to the controversy between the Eastern and Western Churches which had been raised by the publication of the encyclical letter of Pliotius in 867.
RATTAN. See Cane and Palm.
RATTAZZI, Urbano (1808-1873), Italian statesman, was born on 29th June 1808 at Alessandria, and from 1838 practised with great success at the bar. In 1848 he was sent to the chamber of deputies in Turin as representative of his native town. By his debating powers he contributed to the defeat of the Balbo ministry, and for a short time held the portfolio of minister of public instruction; after-
wards, under Gioberti, he became minister of the interior, and on the retirement of the last-named in 1849 he became practically the head of the Government. The defeat at Novara compelled the resignation of Rattazzi in March 1849. His election as president of the chamber in 1852 was one of the earliest results of the so-called “ connubio ” with Cavour, and having become minister of justice in 1853 he in that and the next following years was able to carry a number of measures of reform of considerable importance, including that for the suppression of certain of the monastic orders. During a momentary reaction of public opinion he resigned office in 1858, but again entered the cabinet under La Marmora in 1859 as minister of the interior. In consequence of the cession of Nice and Savoy he again retired in January 1860. He was entrusted with the formation of a new ministry in March 1862, but in consequence of his policy of repression towards Garibaldi was driven from office in the following December. He was again prime minister in 1867, from April to October. His death took place at Frosinone on 5th June 1873. (See Italy, vol. xiii. p. 488 sq.)
RATTLESNAKE. Rattlesnakes are a small group of the family of Pit-vipers (Crotalidx), characterized by a tail which terminates in a chain of horny, loosely connected rings, the so-called “ rattle.״ The “ pit ” by which the family is distinguished from the ordinary vipers is a deep depression in the integument of the sides of the snout, between the nostrils and the eye; its physiological function is unknown. The rattle is a complicated and highly specialized organ, developed from the simple conical scale or epidermal spine, which in the majority of snakes forms the termination of the general integument of the tail. The bone by which the root of the rattle is supported consists of the last caudal vertebrae, from three to eight in number, which are enlarged, dilated, compressed, and coalesced (fig. 1, a). This bone is covered with thick and
vascular cutis, transversely divided by two constrictions into three portions, of which the proximal is larger than the median, and the median much larger than the distal (fig. 2, a). This cuticular portion constitutes the matrix of a horny epidermoid covering which closely fits the shape of the underlying soft part and which is the first commencement of the rattle, as it appears in very young rattlesnakes before they have shed their skin for the first time. When the period of a renewal of the skin approaches a new covering of the extremity of the tail is formed below the old one, but the latter, instead of being cast off with the remainder of the epidermis, is retained by the posterior swelling of the end of the tail, forming now the first loose joint of the rattle. This process is repeated on succeeding
exuviations,—the new joints being always larger than the old ones as long as the snake grows (fig. 3). Perfect rattles therefore taper towards the point, but generally the oldest (terminal) joints wear away in time and are lost. As rattlesnakes shed their skins more than once every year, the number of joints of the rattle does not indicate the age of the animal but the number of exuviations which it has undergone. The largest rattle in the British Museum has twenty-one joints. The rattle (fig. 4) consists thus of a variable number of dry, hard, horny cup-shaped joints, each of which loosely grasps a portion of the preceding, and all of which are capable of being shaken against each other. If the interspaces between the joints are filled with water, as often happens in wet weather, no noise can be produced. The motor power lies in the lateral muscles of the tail, by which a vibratory motion is communicated to the rattle, the noise produced being similar to that of a weak child’s rattle and perceptible at a distance of from 10 to 20 yards.
The habit of violently and rapidly agitating the tail is by no means peculiar to the rattlesnake, but has been observed in other venomous as well as innocuous snakes with the ordinary termination of the tail, when under the influence of fear or anger. The special object for which the rattle has been developed in these snakes is unknown.
Rattlesnakes are entirely confined to the New World. North-American authors distinguish now a great number of different kinds, the most recent, Garman (Reptiles and Batrachians of North America, 1883, 4to), enumerating twelve distinct species and thirteen additional varieties; but all these species or varieties fall into two groups, viz., one which has the upper side of the head covered with the ordinary nine dermal shields, and the other in which the shields between and behind the eyes are broken up or replaced by small scales. The former group consists of two species only, of comparatively small size, both North American, Crotalus miliarius being the more generally known. The second group comprises the more formidable kinds of South as well as North America, which are generally described under the names of C. horridus and C. durissus. In the older standard w’orks the former name was applied to the southern form, which extends from Paraguay and Chili through Brazil into Mexico, and the latter to the common North-American rattlesnake; in modern American works this nomenclature is reversed. C. horridus and C. durissus belong to the most dangerous of poisonous snakes. If a person bitten by an adult rattlesnake escapes with life, protracted illness and the loss of or injury to the wounded limb are frequently the consequence. They inhabit localities to which the sun has free access, prairies, rough stony ground, &c. Specimens of 5 feet in length are not rare. Formerly common in the eastern parts of the United States, and still so in thinly inhabited districts of the western States, rattlesnakes, like the vipers of Europe, have gradually succumbed to the unceasing persecution of man. They vary much in colour : a common type of coloration is a brownish ground-colour, sometimes yellowish, sometimes blackish. Series of large dark spots, frequently edged with yellow, and of very variable shape, run along the back and sides. The head and neck are ornamented with dark or black longitudinal bands, or are marked by an almost uniform coloration.
RAU, Karl Heinrich (1792-1870), German political economist, was born at Erlangen on 23d November 1792. He pursued his studies, devoting himself principally to the (so-called) cameralistic sciences, from 1808 to 1812 at the university of his native place, where he afterwards remained as a privat-docent. In 1814 he obtained the prize offered by the academy of Gottingen for the best treatment
of the question, How the disadvantages arising from the abolition of trade guilds might be removed. His memoir, greatly enlarged, was published in 1816 under the title Ueber das Zunftxoesen xtnd die Foi gen seiner A ufhebung. He was then favourable to the continued existence of trade corporations on a reformed basis, but afterwards abandoned this view. In the same year appeared his Primx lineæ historic ]*)litices. In .1818 he became professor at Erlangen. He competed successfully in 1820 for a prize offered by the academy of Haarlem for the best essay on the causes of poverty ; and in the same year he published a translation, characterized by Roscher as “free, but very good,” of Storch’s Cours d’Économie Politique, with notes and additions of his own. In 1822 he was called to the chair of political economy at Heidelberg, where the rest of his life was spent, in the main, in teaching and research. He took some part, however, in public affairs : in 1837 he was nominated a member of the first chamber of the duchy of Baden, and did good service in that capacity ; and in 1851 he was one of the commissioners sent to England on the part of the Zollverein to study the Industrial Exhibition. A result of this mission was his account of the agricultural implements exhibited at London (Die landwirthschaftlichen Gerathe der Londoner Ausstellung, 1853). He was elected a corresponding member of the French Institute in 1856. After a useful and honourable career he died at Heidelberg on 18th March 1870.
His principal work is the Lchrbuch dcr politischen Oelconomic (1826-37), an encyclopaedia of the economic knowledge of his time, written with a special view to the guidance of practical men. The doctrines are, in the main, those of Smith and Say ; hut they are treated in an independent manner, and the conclusions of his predecessors are modified, especially by giving larger scope to the action of the state. The three volumes are respectively occupied with (1) political economy, properly so called, or the theory of wealth, (2) administrative science ( Volksxmrthschaftspolitik), and (3) finance. The two last he recognizes as necessarily admitting of variations in accordance with the special circumstances of different countries, whilst the first is more akin to the exact sciences, and is in many respects capable of being treated, or at least illustrated, mathematically. This threefold division marks his close relation to the older German cameralistic writers, with whose works he was familiarly acquainted. It is a consequence in part of his conformity to their method and his attention to administrative applications that his treatise was found peculiarly adapted for the use of the official class, and long maintained its position as their special textbook. He was the economic teacher, says Roscher, of the well-governed middle states of Germany from 1815 to 1848. The book has passed through many editions ; in that of 1870 by Adolf Wagner it was transformed into a new book.
In the earlier part of his scientific life Rau tended strongly towards the relative point of view and an historical method in economics. But, though in his great work he kept clear of the exaggerated abstraction of the Ricardians and rejected some of their a priori assumptions, he never joined the historical school. To the end he occupied a somewhat indeterminate position with respect to that school ; on the whole, however, he more and more subordinated historical investigation to immediate practical interests, and in his economic politics moved in the direction of limiting rather than extending the sphere of state action. His general merits are thoroughness of treatment, accuracy of statement, and balance of judgment ; he shows much industry in the collection and skill in the utilization of statistical facts ; and his exposition is orderly and clear. Roscher finds in his earlier works a spirituel charm which disappears in the later.
Besides the publications already mentioned, he was author of the following:—Ueber den Luxus, 1817 ; Ansichten der Staatswirth-schaft 'init besonderer Beziehung auf Deutschland, 1820 ; Malthus und Say iiber die Ursachen der jetzigen Handelsstockung, 1821 ; Gruxidriss der Kameralwissenschaft oder Wirthschaftslchre, 1823 ; Ueber die Kameralwissenschaft, Entwickelung ihres JVesens und ihrer Theile, 1825 ; Ueber die Landwirthschaft der Bheinpfalz, 1830; an academic oration De vi naturae in rempublica.m, 1831 ; and Geschichte des Pfluges, 1845.
Rau founded in 1834 the Archiv der politischen Oekonomie und Polizeiwissenschaft, in which he wrote a number of articles, afterwards issued in separate form : amongst them may be named, those on the debt of Bauen, on the accession of Baden to the Zollverein, on the crisis of the Zollverein in the summer of 1852, on the American banks, on the new English poor law, on List’s national
system of political economy, and on the minimum size of a peasant property. This enumeration will give an idea of the extent and variety of his researches.
RAUCH, Christian Daniel (1777-1857), one of the most celebrated sculptors of modern times, was born at Arolsen in the principality* of Waldeck on the 2d of January 1777. The opening career of the young artist was attended with considerable difficulty, his parents being poor and unable to place him under efficient masters. His first instructor taught him little else than the art of sculpturing grave-stones, and Professor Ruhl of Cassel could not give him much more. A wider field of improvement opened up before him when he removed to Berlin in 1797 ; but poverty still hampered all his efforts. He was obliged to earn a livelihood by becoming a royal lackey, and to reserve the prosecution of his favourite art for his spare hours. The genius of Rauch, however, soon forced itself into notice and recommended him to several persons of influence who were able to give him assistance. Queen Louisa, surprising him one day in the act of modelling her features in wax, sent him to study at the Academy of Art. Not long afterwards, in 1804, Count Sandrecky gave him the means to complete his education at Rome, where William von Humboldt, Canova, and Thorwaldsen befriended him. Under such patronage the young sculptor made rapid progress. Among other works, he executed bas-reliefs of Hippolytus and Phaedra, Mars and Venus wounded by Diomede, and a Child praying. In 1811 Rauch entered upon the eminent part of his career, when he Avas commissioned to execute a monument for Queen Louisa of Prussia. The statue, representing the queen in a sleeping posture, was placed in a mausoleum in the grounds of Charlottenburg, and procured great fame for the artist. Commissions for portraits came pouring in upon him. The consummate tact with which he seized individual characteristics and the artistic manner in which he treated them at once established his reputation. The erection of nearly all public statues came to be entrusted to him. He began to execute that long series of representations of great Germans in which his genius is exhibited to full advantage. In course of time almost every important town throughout the country possessed a bust of some eminent statesman, patriot, or man of genius from his chisel. There were, among others, Blücher at Breslau, Maximilian at Munich, Francke at Halle, Dürer at Nuremberg, Luther at Wittenberg, and the grand-duke Paul Frederick at Sch Averin. At length, in 1830, he commenced, along Avith Schinkel the architect, the models for a colossal monument at Berlin to Frederick the Great. This Avork was inaugurated with great pomp in May 1851, and has ever since been regarded as one of the masterpieces of modern sculpture. On a granite pedestal 25 feet in height stands the colossal equestrian statue of the king. His plain pinched features and his grotesque costume are given Avith historical exactness Avithout impairing the artistic effect. An air of resistless majesty ennobles the mean countenance, and a bold and skilful treatment hides the absurdity of the garb. The excellence of his masterpiece was recognized throughout the Avorld. Princes decorated him with honours. The academies of Europe enrolled him among their members. Especially did his OAvn sovereign and countrymen regard him with proud affection and respect. A statue of Kant for Königsberg and a statue of Thaer for Berlin occupied his attention during some of his last years; and he had just finished a model of Moses praying betAveen Aaron and Hur Avlien he was attacked by his last illness. He died on 3d December 1857.
RAUMER, Friedrich Ludavig Georg a^on (1781-1873), I German historian, Avas born at Wörlitz in Anhalt on 14th
May 1781. His father (who died in 1822) was much esteemed in Anhalt, where, as “ kammerdirector,” he did excellent service to agriculture. Raumer was educated at the Joachimsthal Gymnasium, Berlin, and at the universities of Halle and Göttingen. In 1801 he began to practise as a lawyer in the Brandenburg chamber, and in the following year he was made assessor. From 1806 to 1808 he was connected with a department of the crown lands chamber at Wusterhausen near Berlin. Having been made a councillor in 1809, he was called in 1810 to a post in the office for the national debt, and soon afterwards received an appointment in the bureau of the chancellor, Hardenberg. He was made a professor at the university of Breslau in 1811, and in 1819 he became professor of political science and history at Berlin. In 1815 he had carried on historical investigations in Venice, and in the two following years he had travelled much in Germany, Switzerland, and Italy. At Berlin he was for some time a member of the Upper Board of Censors and secretary of the Academy of Sciences. The former office he resigned in 1831, the latter in 1847. His professorship at the Berlin university he did not give up until 1853, and even then he did not altogether cease to lecture. In 1848 he was elected a member of the national assembly at Frankfort, where he associated himself with the right centre ; and from Frankfort he was sent on a mission to Paris. At a later period he was a member of the first chamber of the Prussian parliament. He died at Berlin on 14th June 1873. Raumer made many contributions to history, in all of which he embodied the results of independent research and gave evidence of a sound and penetrating judgment. His style is direct, lucid, and vigorous, and his best books have been as warmly appreciated by ordinary readers as by scholars.
His first work, published anonymously in 1806, was entitled Sechs Dialoge über Krieg und Handel. This was followed by Das britische Besteuerungssystem (1810), Handbuch merkwürdiger Stellen aus den lateinischen Geschichtschreibern des Mittelalters (1813), Herbstreise nach Venedig (1816), and other books. His most famous works are Geschichte der Hohenstaufen und ihrer Zeit (1823-25) and Geschichte Europas seit dem Ende des löten Jahrhunderts (1832-50). In 1831 appeared Briefe aus Paris und Frankreich im Jahre 1830 and Briefe aus Paris zur Erläuterung der Geschichte des 16ten und 17ten Jahrhunderts. He went to England in 1835, to Italy in 1839, and to America in 1843, and these visits led to the publication of various works—England in 1835 (1836), Beiträge zur neuern Geschichte aus dem Britischen Museum und Reichsarchive (1836-39), Italien, Beiträge zur Kenntniss dieses Landes (1840), Die Vereinigten Staaten von Nordamerika (1845). Among his later books maybe mentioned .4 ?zAg'UartscAe Briefe (1851), Historisch-politische Briefe über die geselligen Verhältnisse der Menschen (1860), Lebenserinnerungen und Briefvjechsel (1861), and Handbuch zur Geschichte der Literatur (1864-66). In 1830 Raumer began the Historisches Taschenbuch published by Brockhaus, which from 1871 was continued by Riehl.
RAUPACH, Ernst Benjamin Salomo (1784-1852), German dramatic writer, was born on the 21st of April 1784 at Straupitz, a village near Liegnitz in Silesia. He attended the gymnasium at Liegnitz and afterwards studied theology at Halle. He spent a good many years in Russia as a teacher, and in 1816 was made a professor in the university of St Petersburg. In 1822 he left Russia, and after travelling for some time in Italy settled as a writer for the stage in Berlin, where he remained during the rest of his life. He died at Berlin on the 18th of March 1852.
Raupach was not a man of imaginative genius, but he had remarkable skill in the invention of effective dramatic situations, and was master of a vigorous rhetorical style. These qualities secured for him a prominent place among the most popular dramatic writers of his day. He wrote both tragedies ana comedies, and was the author of a series of dramas representing the great events of the age of the Hohenstaufen.
See P. Raupach, Raupach, eine biographische Skizze (1853).
RAVAILLAC, François (1578-1610), the assassin of Henry IV. of France, was born near Angoulême in 1578. He was of humble origin, and began life as a valet de chambre, but afterwards became a petty solicitor and also
teacher of a school. He was not able, however, to keep clear of debt, and after having been imprisoned for some time by his creditors he sought admission to the recently founded order of Feuillants, but after a short probation was dismissed as a visionary. An application for admission to the Society of Jesus was equally unsuccessful in 1606. His various disappointments tended to foster a violently fanatical temperament, and widely-spread rumours that the king was intending to make war upon the pope suggested to him the idea of assassination, which he deliberately and successfully carried out on 14th May 1610. In the course of his trial he was frequently put to the torture, but persistently (and it is now believed truly) denied that he had been prompted by any one or had any accomplices. Sentence of death was carried out with revolting barbarity on 27 th May.
RAVEN (Anglo-Saxon Hrsefn, Icelandic Hrafn, Danish Ravn, Dutch Raaf, German Rabe), the largest of the Birds of the Order Passeres ·, and, as already shewn (Ornithology, vol. xviii. p. 49), probably the most highly developed of all Birds.
Quick-sighted, sagacious, and bold, it must have followed the prehistoric fisher and hunter, and generally without molestation from them, to prey on the refuse of their spoils, just as it now waits, with the same intent, on the movements of their successors ; while it must have likewise attended the earliest herdsmen, who could not have regarded it with equal indifference, since its now notorious character for attacking and putting to death a weakly animal was doubtless in those days manifested. Yet the Raven is no mere dependant upon man, being always able to get a living for itself; and moreover a sentiment of veneration or superstition has from very remote ages and among many races of men attached to it—a sentiment so strong as often to overcome the feeling of distrust not to say of hatred which its deeds inspired, and, though rapidly decreasing, even to survive in some places until the present day. There is no need to dwell on the association of this bird with well-known characters of history sacred or profane—Noah or Elijah, Odin or Flokki, the last of whom by its means discovered Iceland. The Raven is even said to have played its part in the mythology of the Red Indian ; and none can wonder that all this should be so, since, wherever it occurs and more especially wherever it is numerous, as in ancient times and in thinly peopled countries it must have been, its size, appearance, and fearless habits would be sure to attract especial attention. Nor has this attention wholly ceased with the advance of enlightenment, for both in prose and verse, from the time of Shakespeare to that of Poe and Dickens, the Raven has often figured, and generally without the amount of misrepresentation which is the fate of most animals which celebrated writers condescend to notice. Notwithstanding all this, however, the Raven has now fallen upon evil days. The superstitious reverence with which it was once regarded has all but vanished and has been very generally succeeded by persecution, which in many districts has produced actual extirpation, so that it is threatened with extinction, save in the wildest and most unpeopled districts.@@1
The Raven breeds very early in the year, in England resorting to its nest, which is usually an ancient if not an ancestral structure, about the middle or towards the end of January. Therein are laid from five to seven eggs of the common Corvine coloration (see Crow, vol. vi. pp. 617, 618), and the young are hatched before the end of February. In more northern countries the breeding-season is naturally delayed, but everywhere this species is almost if not quite the earliest of birds to enter upon tlie business
@@@1 That all lovers of nature should take what steps they can to arrest this sad fate is a belief which the present writer fully holds. Without attempting to deny the loss which in some cases is inflicted upon the rearers of cattle by Ravens, it is an enormous mistake to suppose that the neighbourhood of a pair of these birds is invariably detrimental. On this point he can speak from experience. For many years he had an intimate knowledge of a pair occupying an inland locality surrounded by valuable flocks of sheep, and abounding in rabbits and game, and had ample opportunities, which he never neglected, of repeatedly examining the pellets of bones and exuvise that these, like all other carnivorous birds, cast up. He thus found that this pair of Ravens fed almost exclusively on moles. Soon after he moved from the neighbourhood in which they lived the unreasoning zeal of a gamekeeper (against, it is believed, the orders of his master) put an end to this interesting couple—the last of their species which inhabited the county.
of perpetuating its kind. The Raven measures about 26 inches in length, and has an expanse of wing considerably exceeding a yard. Its bill and feet are black, and the same may be said of its whole plumage, but the feathers of the upper parts as well as of the breast are very glossy, reflecting a bright purple or steel-blue.@@1 The species inhabits the whole of Europe, and the northern if not the central parts of Asia; but in the latter continent its southern range is not well determined. In America @@2 it is, or used to be, found from the shores of the Polar Sea to Guatemala if not to Honduras, but is said hardly to be found of late years in the eastern part of the United States. In Africa its place is taken by three allied but well-differentiated species, two of which (Corvus umbrvnus, readily distinguished by its brown neck, and C. affinis,@@3 having its superior nasal bristles upturned vertically) also occur in South-Western Asia, while the third (C. leptoηyx or C. tingitanus, a smaller species characterized by several slight differences) inhabits Barbary and the Atlantic Islands. Further to the southward in the Ethiopian Region three more species appear, whose plumage is varied with white —C. seapulatus, C. albicollis, and C. crαssirostris—the first two of small size, but the last rivalling the real Raven in that respect.    (a. n.)
RAVENNA, chief city of an Italian province of the same name, contained 18,571 inhabitants according to the census of 1881. It is situated in the north-east of Italy, in 44º 25' N. 1at. and 12º 12' E. long., about 4 miles from the Adriatic, with which it is now connected by the Cor-sini Canal, the two small rivers Ronco and Montone no longer serving as means of communication between the city and the sea. A railway, 26 miles long, unites Ravenna with Castel Bolognese on the line from Bologna to Rimini.
Ravenna owes both its great historic importance in the past and its comparative dulness and obscurity in the present to the same cause,—its position in an alluvial plain, formed and continually extended by the deposits brought down by a number of small and rapid streams from the neighbouring Apennines. Any one who glances at a map of the north-western corner of the Adriatic will see at once the general character of the coast,—broad lagunes sometimes stretching far inland ; flat alluvial plains intersected by endless dykes ; numerous rivers (of which the Po is by far the largest and makes the most conspicuous delta) descending from the Apennines or the Alps ; and, outside of all, a barrier of islands which have a continual tendency to become adherent to the shore through the new deposits which are brought down, and thus to be turned from islands into low hills. This description suits Venice nearly as well as it suits Ravenna, and the chief difference between these two great historic cities is that the lagunes of Ravenna are about twenty centuries older than those of Venice.
The one transcendent interest of Ravenna to a modern traveller consists in its churches. No other city in the world offers so many and such striking examples of the ecclesiastical architecture of the centuries from the 4th to the 8th. The stylo is commonly called Byzantine, and no doubt from the close connexion of Ravenna with Constantinople considerable influence was exerted by the latter city on the former ; but some of the most striking features of the churches of Ravenna—the colonnades, the mosaics, perhaps the cupolas—are not so much Byzantine as representative of early Christian art generally. It is truly said by Mr Freeman :
@@@1    Pied examples are not at all uncommon in some localities and wholly white varieties are said to have been seen.
@@@2    American birds have been described as forming a distinct species under the name of Corvus carnivarus or C. cacolotl.
@@@3    Mr Sharpe (Cat. B. Brit. Museum, iii. p. 45) separates C. affinis as forming a distinct genus Rhinocorax ; but it is a hard task on any reasonable ground to break up the genus Corvus as long accepted by systematists.
“The outside of a Ravennese basilica is an unadorned and unattractive pile of brick. If it has any architectural grouping or outline about it, it owes it to the campanile which a later age has added. But if the churches of Ravenna are thus unattractive without, they are emphatically all glorious within. The eye dwells with genuine artistic delight on the long unbroken rows of pillars and arches, their marble shafts, their floriated capitals, sometimes the work of the Christian craftsman, sometimes the spoils of heathendom pressed into the service of the sanctuary. . . . The whole plan of these buildings allows a great field for void spaces ; but the void spaces thus left are filled up by these wonderful mosaic paintings which look down upon us as fresh as they were thirteen hundred years back.”
Every traveller to Ravenna is impressed by the vividness of these decorations, which were older when Giotto painted his first fresco than Giotto’s frescos are now ; but we can here only allude to the subject, referring the reader to the article Mosaic (vol. xvi. p. 852 sq.).
The following are the most important churches of Ravenna, arranged in the order of the dates generally attributed to them :—
The cathedral (No. 1) has been so much modernized as to have lost its interest ; but the baptistery adjoining it, decorated by Bishops Neon and Maximian in the δth and 6th centuries, an octagonal building with mosaics of the apostles on the roof, is still unspoiled. SS. Nazario e Celso (No. 6) is a little building in the form of a Latin cross, and is better known as the mausoleum of Galla Placidia, whose tomb and those of three emperors, her husband, brother, and son, are deposited here. It is surmounted with a cupola surrounded with four semi-domes, on which are depicted figures of the Good Shepherd with His sheep, of evangelists, prophets, &c., and two stags drinking at a fountain. S. Apollinare Nuovo (No. 10) has above the arches of the nave what is perhaps the greatest triumph of mosaic art, two processions of virgins and of martyrs marching, the former from the city of Classis, the latter from the palace of Theodoric, to the Saviour. In the former group Christ sits upon the lap of His mother, and the Magi are interposed between Him and the procession of virgins. In the latter He is enthroned in glory and guarded by four ministrant angels. S. Vitale (No. 11) is doubly interesting as having furnished the model after which Charles the Great built his imperial minster at Aix-la-Chapelle and as containing full-length contemporary portraits in mosaic of Justinian and Theodora, surrounded by ecclesiastics, courtiers, and soldiers of the guard. It is surmounted by a dome, is circular in form, and has eight apsidal chapels all round it, one of which, corresponding to the choir in an ordinary church, is prolonged to about four times the length of the other apses. Unfortunately, only in this choir have the mosaics been preserved, but they are of the highest possible interest. S. Apollinare in Classe (No. 13), once the centre of a busy population of sailors, shopkeepers, and dock-labourers, now stands absolutely alone in a wide and desolate expanse 2 miles from the sea. The decorations of the church have suffered from damp —there are frequently some inches of water on the pavement—but the twenty-four stately marble columns with Corinthian capitals form a magnificent prelude to an apse covered with mosaics, among which is conspicuous a great jewelled cross, symbolizing the Saviour on the Mount of Transfiguration ; Moses and Elias lean forth from the clouds on either side, and in the valley below the apostles wait, represented symbolically as sheep. Many mosaic portraits of bishops of Ravenna are on the walls of the church, and a mosaic picture, representing Constantine Pogonatus and his brothers be-stowing a privilegium on Bishop Reparatus about the year 670.
History.—Strabo mentions a tradition that Ravenna was founded by Thessalians, who afterwards, finding themselves pressed on by
the Etrurians, called in their Umbrian neighbours and eventually departed, leaving the city to their allies. Throughout the valley of the Po the Gauls took the place of the Etrurians as a conquering power ; but Ravenna may possibly have retained its Umbrian character until, about the year 191 b.c., by the conquest of the Boii the whole of this region passed definitely under the dominion of Rome. Either as a colonia or a municipium, Ravenna remained for more than two centuries an inconsiderable city of Gallia Cis-alpina, chiefly noticeable as the place to which Caesar during his ten years’ command in Gaul frequently resorted in order to confer with his friends from Rome. At length under Augustus it suddenly rose into importance, when that emperor selected it as the station for his fleet on “the upper sea.” Two hundred and fifty ships, said Dion (in a lost passage quoted by Jordanes), could ride at anchor in its harbour. Strabo, writing probably a few years after Ravenna had been thus selected as a naval arsenal, gives us a description of its appearance which certainly corresponds more closely with modern Venice than with modern Ravenna. “It is the largest of all the cities built in the lagunes, but entirely composed of wooden houses, penetrated in all directions by canals, wherefore bridges and boats are needed for the wayfarer. At the flow of the tide a large part of the sea comes sweeping into it, and thus, while all the muddy deposit of the rivers is swept away, the malaria is at the same time removed, and by this means the city enjoys so good a sanitary reputation that the Government has fixed on it as a place for the reception and training of gladiators.” On the other hand, good water was proverbially difficult to obtain at Ravenna,—dearer than wine, says Martial, who has two epigrams on the subject. And Sidonius, writing in the 5th century, complains bitterly of the “feculent gruel” (cloacalis puls) which filled the canals of the city, and which gave forth fetid odours when stirred by the poles of the bargemen. The port of Ravenna, situated about 3 miles from the city, was named Classis. A long line of houses called Caesarea connected it with Ravenna, and in process of time there was such a continuous series of buildings that the three towns seemed like one.
The great historical impoi־tance of Ravenna begins early in the 5th century, when Honorius, alarmed by the progress of Alaric in the north of Italy, transferred his court to the city in the lagunes. From this date (c. 402) to the fall of the Western empire in 476 Ravenna was, though not the exclusive, the chief residence of the Roman emperors and the centre of the elaborate machinery of the state. Here Stilicho was slain ; here Honorius and his sister Placidia caressed and quarrelled ; here Valentinian III. spent the greater part of his useless life; here Majorian wr as proclaimed; here the Little Romulus donned his purple robe ; here in the pine-wood@@1 outside the city his uncle Paulus received his decisive defeat from Odoacer. Through all these changes Ravenna maintained its character as an impregnable “city in the sea,” not easily to be attacked even by a naval power on account of the shallowness and devious nature of the channels by which it had to be approached. On becoming supreme ruler of Italy Odoacer, like the emperors who had gone before him, made Ravenna his chief place of residence, and here after thirteen years of kingship he shut himself up when Theodoric the Ostrogoth had invaded Italy and defeated him in two battles. Theodorie’s siege of Ravenna lasted for three years (489-492) and was marked by one bloody encounter in the pine-wood on the east of it. The Ostrogoth collected a fleet and established a severe blockade, which at length caused Odoacer to surrender the city. The terms, arranged through the intervention of John, archbishop of Ravenna, were not observed by Theodoric, who, ten days after his entry into the city, slew his rival at a banquet in the palace of the Laurel Grove (15th March 493). Ravenna was Theodoric’s chief place of residence, and the thirty-three years of the reign of the great Ostrogoth (493-526) may probably be considered the time of its greatest splendour. In the eastern part of the city he built for himself a large palace, which probably occupied about a sixth of the space now enclosed within the city walls, or nearly the whole of the rectangle enclosed by Strada di Porta Alberoni on the south, Strada Nuova di Porta Serrata on. the west, and the line of the city walls on the north and east. There still remains close to the first-named street and fronting the Corso Garibaldi a high wall built of square Roman bricks, with pillars and arched recesses in the upper portion, which goes by the name of Palazzo di Teodorico. Freeman, on account of the Romanesque character of the architecture, thinks it probable that it really belongs to the time of the Lombard kings; but at any rate it is of the very early mediré val period, and it marks the spot where part of the Ostrogothic palace once stood. A more memorable and clearly authentic monument of Theodoric is furnished by his tomb, a massive mausoleum in the style of the tomb of Hadrian at Rome, which stands still perfect outside the walls near the north-east corner of the city. It is of circular shape and surmounted by an enormous monolith, brought from the quarries of Istria and weighing more than 300 tons. In this mausoleum Theodoric was buried, but his body was cast forth from it, perhaps during the troublous times of the siege of Ravenna by the imperial troops, and the Rotunda (as it is now generally called) was converted into a church dedicated to the Virgin.
@@@1 The great pine-wood to the east of the city, which, though injured by an unusually severe winter and threatened by a projected railway, is still one of the great glories of Ravenna, must therefore have been in existence already in the 5th century. Byi-on’s description,
“ [The] immemorial wood Rooted where once the Adrian wave flowed o’er,” is probably true ; but there is no evidence that it was in historic time that this change took place. Our conjecture is that the Pineta grew on a large peninsula somewhat resembling the Lido of Venice.
Nine years after the death of Theodoric Justinian sent an army to Italy, nominally in order to avenge the murder of Theodoric’s daughter Amalasuntlia, but in fact to destroy the Gothic monarchy and restore Italy to the empire. Long after the Goths had lost Rome they still clung to Ravenna, till at length, weary of the feebleness and ill-success of their own kin״, Vitiges, and struck with admiration of their heroic conqueror, they offered to transfer their allegiance to Belisarius on condition of his assuming the diadem of the Western empire. Belisarius dallied with the proposal until he had obtained an entrance for himself and his troops within the walls of the capital, and then threw off the mask and proclaimed his inviolable fidelity to Justinian. Thus in the year 540 was Ravenna re-united to the Roman empire. Its connexion with that empire—or, in other words, its dependence upon Constantinople—lasted for more than 200 years, during which period, under the rule of Narses and his successors the exarchs, Ravenna was the seat of Byzantine dominion in Italy. In 728 the Lombard king Luitprand took the suburb Classis ; about 752 the city itself fell into the hands of his successor Aistulf, from whom a few years after it was wrested by Pippin, king of the Franks. By this time the former splendour of the city had probably in great measure departed ; the alteration of the coast-line and the filling up of the lagunes which make it now practically an inland city had probably commenced, and no historical importance attaches to its subsequent fortunes. It formed part of the Frankish king’s donation to the pope in the middle of the 8th century. It was an independent republic, generally taking the Guelf side in the 13th century, subject to rulers of the house of Polentani in the 14th, Venetian in the 15th (1441), and papal again in the 16th,—Pope Julius II. having succeeded in wresting it from the hands of the Venetians. From this time (1509) down to our own days, except for the interruptions caused by the wars of the French Revolution, Ravenna continued subject to the papal see and was governed by a cardinal legate. In 1859 it wr as one of the first cities to give its vote in favour of Italian unity, and it has since then formed a part of the kingdom of Italy.
At the beginning of the period thus rapidly sketched Charles the Great visited the city and carried off the brazen statue of Theodoric and the marble columns of his palace to his own new palace at Aix-la-Chapelle. More than five centuries later (1320) Dante became the guest of Guido Novello di Polenta, lord of Ravenna, and here he died on the 14th September of the following year. The marble urn containing the body of the poet still rests at Ravenna, where ■what Byron calls “a little cupola more neat than solemn” has been erected over it. In 1512 the French army under Gaston de Foix fought a fierce báttle with the Spanish, Venetian, and papal troops on the banks of the Ronco about 2 miles from Ravenna. The French were victorious, but Gaston fell in the act of pursuing the enemy. His death is commemorated by the Colonna dei Frances! erected on the spot where he fell. Lord Byron resided at Ravenna for eighteen months in 1820-21, attracted by the charms of the countess Guiccioli.
Literature.—The most important authority for the history of Ravenna is Bishop Agnellus, who wrote about 840, in very bad Latin, the Liber Pontificalis Ecclesix Ravennatis. It is printed in vol. ii. of Muratori’s Per. Ital. Scriptores, but much the best edition is that by Holder-Egger in the Monumenta Germanise Histórica (1878). Rubeus (Hist. Ravennatum IAhri Decern, Venice, 1599) seems to have had access to some authorities besides Agnellus which are now lost. Ciampini (Vetera Monumenta, 1690-99, and Synopsis Histórica, 1693) gives some fair representations of the mosaics, and Quast’s Ravenna (Berlin, 1842) is a careful and well-illustrated monograph. Dr Ricci, in a popular guide, Ravenna e i tntoi Dintorni (187S), has included some of the results of a very careful study of the antiquities of his native city. Professor Freeman’s essay The Goths at Ravenna is the best account in English of the city in its historical connexion, and Mr J. A. Symonds in his Sketches in Italy and Greece has gracefully touched on its picturesque qualities and literary associations. (T. H.)
RAVENSBURG, an industrial town of Wiirtemberg, is pleasantly situated amid vine-clad hills on the small river Scliussen, 12 miles to the north of Friedrichshafen on the Lake of Constance. Its aspect is quaint and mediaeval, and above its houses rise nine picturesque towers, the most prominent of ־which, dating from the 15th century, is known as the “ Mehlsack ” or sack oi flour. The town-house is also a 15th-century building. The industrial products of Ravensburg are varied, includ-
ing linen, cotton, embroidered muslins, pottery, glass, and ]*laying-cards. The fruit market is of considerable importance, and trade is also carried on in cattle, grain, and wood. The population in 1880 was 10,550, of whom 2620 were Protestants.
Ravensburg was founded in the 11th century by the Guelfs, one of whose ancestral castles lay on the Veitsberg, to the south of the town. In 1180 the town passed into the hands of the Hohenstaufens, and a century later it became a free town of the empire. Annexed to Bavaria from 1803 to 1810, it was ceded to IViirtemberg in the latter year.
RAWAL PINDl or Rawul Pindee, a district of British India, in the division of the same name,@@1 under the jurisdiction of the lieutenant-governor of the Punjab, lying between 33° and 34° N. lat. and 71° 46'and 73° 41' E. long. It is situated on the southern slopes of the northwestern extremities of the Himalayas, and contains large mountain tracts, with rich valleys traversed by many mountain torrents. Its area is 4861 square miles; it is bounded on the N. by Hazdra district, on the E. by the river Jhelum, on the S. by Jhelum district, and on the W. by the Indus. From its north-eastern extremity to its western limits the district is traversed by hills more or less linked together, causing those peculiarities of surface and of climate by which it is distinguished. The eastern range, known locally as the Murree (Marri) Hills, from the sanatorium erected at the north-eastern extremity of the district, is a continuation of the great Himalayan system ; it descends in a southerly and westerly direction, and is clothed with magnificent forest trees and a rich undergrowth of brushwood. Southward these hills follow the course of the Jhelum, decreasing in height, but gaining in picturesqueness what they lose in sublimity, until they subside into a comparatively level country. The mountains in the western half of the district belong to the trans-Indus system; the chief range, known as the Chitta Pahar or White Hills, is composed chiefly of nummulitic limestone. To the north lies the fertile valley of Chach, one of the rare oases which relieve the wildness of this savage waste. The Indus and the Jhelum are the chief rivers of Rdwal Pindi. The former bounds the district along its whole western edge, where it is very picturesque, and in parts navigable for steamers; the latter, forming the eastern frontier, is equally picturesque though less important for navigation. Other chief rivers are the Sohan and the Haroh, both tributaries of the Indus. The climate of R&wal Pindi is noted for its salubrity; the mean annual temperature is 69°4־, and the average annual rainfall 33T5 inches. The Punjab Northern State Railway runs through its whole length, with a branch from Golra junction, north of the town of RAwal Pindi, to Khusalgari on the western frontier.
The population in 1881 was 820,512 (males 449,287, females 371,225), Hindus numbering 86,162, Mohammedans 711,546, Sikhs 17,780, Christians 3822, and “others” 202. The only town with a population exceeding 10,000 is the capital (see below). The inhabitants are mostly scattered in small hamlets over the surface of the country. The staple product is wheat in the spring and bajra in the autumn. Inferior grains are giving place to more valuable cereals, and to cotton and potatoes. Of the total area 1517 square miles are cultivated and 379 cultivable. Owing to the nigged nature of the country there is very little commerce, and that little is concentrated principally at the headquarters town. Imports consist of sugar, spices, cotton goods, and salt; while exports are confined to the raw materials of agriculture. The only manufacture of any importance is cotton-weaving. The total revenue of the district in 1882-83 was £105,316, of which the land-tax yielded £68,715.
Rawal Pindi with the rest of the Sikh dominions passed to the British in 1849, under whose administration it enjoyed comparative peace until the mutiny in 1857. The events of that year
afforded an outlet for the smouldering passions engendered by ancestral feuds, and the Murree Hills became the scene of an attempted insurrection. The authorities, however, having been warned of this by a faithful native, took steps for defence, so that when the enemy arrived they were compelled to withdraw in disorder, and they shortly afterwards disbanded themselves. Since then the district has remained comparatively tranquil. Among recent events is the great durbar held by the viceroy of India (Earl Dufferin) on 8th April 1885 in honour of the amir of Afghanistan (Abdur Rahman). The district abounds in objects of great antiquarian interest, chief of which are those of Dehri Shahan (or Shall Dheri), a village situated in 33° 17' N. lat. and 72° 49' E. long. Dehri Shahan has been identified with the site of the ancient city of Taxila or Takshasila, which in the time of Alexander was “a large and wealthy city, the most populous between the Indus and Hydaspes” (Jhelum). The ruins of Taxila consist of several distinct portions, and rank as the most interesting, extensive, and best preserved memorials of antiquity in the Punjab province.
RAWAL PINDI or Rawul Pindee, principal town and administrative headquarters of the above district, lies in 33° 37' N. lat. and 73° 6' E. long. The .present town is of modern origin ; it is well built and has an air of considerable prosperity; its streets are broad and handsome, and several fine buildings add to its appearance. It is chiefly a grain mart. The population of the town in 1881 was 52,975 (35,985 males and 16,990 females).
RAWANDlS. See Mohammedanism, vol. xvi. p. 579.
RAWITSCH (Polish Havicz), a small manufacturing town of Prussia in the province of Posen, lies near the Silesian frontier, 37 miles to the north of Breslau. It is regularly built and contains a handsome Protestant church and a substantial town-hall. The principal industry is the manufacture of snuff and cigars, for the first of which in particular it enjoys a considerable reputation. Trade is carried on in grain, wool, cattle, hides, and timber. The population in 1880 was 12,260, made up of 7587 Protestants, 3539 Roman Catholics, and 1123 Jews. Rawitsch is of comparatively modern origin, having been founded by Protestant refugees from Silesia during the Thirty Years’ War.
RAWMARSH, a large village and urban sanitary district in the West Riding of Yorkshire, is situated on the ridge of a hill above the valley of the Don and on the Midland Railway, 2 miles north of Rotherham and 12 south-west of Doncaster. It possesses extensive iron-works and steel rolling-mills, and there are collieries in the neighbourhood. The church of St Lawrence was rebuilt in 1839 with the exception of the old Norman tower. There are several almshouses and other charities. At the time of the Conquest the manor was granted to Walter d’Eincourt, and in the 12th century it was divided among the three daughters of his subinfeudatory Paganus, who is supposed to have been the founder of the church. The population of the urban sanitary district (area, 2578 acres) in 1871 was 6869, and in 1881 it was 10,179.
RAWTENSTALL, a town of east Lancashire, is situated on the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway, 8 miles north of Bury and 12 south-east of Blackburn. At the beginning of the century it contained only a few houses, but since the rise of the manufacturing industry it has steadily increased, till it is now a considerable town. The cotton and woollen mills are very extensive, and in the neighbourhood there are stone quarries. The church of St Mary, in the Gothic style, erected in 1837, has lately been restored ; and several of the denominational chapels are large and handsome buildings. The town has also good schools. There is a public cemetery, 15 acres in extent. Near the town is the Haslingden Union workhouse, erected in 1869. The population of the urban sanitary district (area, 1667 acres) in 1871 was estimated at 11,307, and in 1881 it was 12,571. Now (1885) by the incorporation of Newchurch, Goodsliaw, and Crawshaw Booth the population is over 30,000.
@@@1 Rawal Pindi division comprises the four districts of Rawal Pindi, Jhelum, Gujrat, and Shahpur, with a total area of 15,435 square miles and a total population (1881) of 2,520,508 (males 1,346,573, females 1,173,935).
RAY. The Rays (Batoidei) together with the Sharks (Selachoidei) form the suborder Plagiostomata of Cartilaginous fishes, and are divided into six families, as already noticed in Ichthyology, vol. xii. pp. 685, 686.
The first family contains only the Saw-fishes (Pristis), of which five species are known, from tropical and subtropical seas. Although saw-fishes possess all the essential characteristics of the rays proper, they retain the elongate form of the body of sharks, the tail being excessively muscular and the sole organ of locomotion. The “saw” (fig. 1) is a flat    protruding intestines. The
and enormously devel-    teeth proper, with which the
oped prolongation of the    mouth is armed, are exsnout, with an endo-    tremely small and obtuse,
skeleton which consists    and unsuitable for inflicting
of from three to five carti-    wounds or seizing animals,
laginous tubes; these are,    Saw-fishes are abundant in
in fact, merely the rostral    the tropics; in their stomach
processes of the cranial    pieces of intestines and frag-
cartilage and are found    ments of cuttle-fish have
in all rays, though they    been found. They grow to
are commonly much    a large size, specimens with
shorter. The integument    saws 6 feet long and 1 foot
of the saw is hard, covered    broad at the base being of
with shagreen ; and a    common occurrence,
series of strong teeth,    , The rays of the second
sharp in front, and flat    family, Rhinobatidee, bear a
behind, are embedded in    strong resemblance to the
it, in alveolar sockets, on    saw-fishes, but lack the
each side. The saw is a    saw. Their teeth are con-
most formidable weapon    sequently more developed,
of offence, by means of    flat, obtuse, and adapted for
which the fish tears pieces    crushing hard-shelled mar-
of flesh off the body of its    ine animals. There are
victim, or rips open its    about sixteen species, from
abdomen to feed on the    ־ tropical seas.
The third family, Torpedinidae, includes the Electric Rays. The peculiar organ (fig. 2) by which the electricity is produced has been described in vol. xii. p. 650. The fish uses this power voluntarily either to defend itself or to stun or kill the smaller animals on which it feeds. To receive the shock the object must complete the galvanic circuit by communicating with the fish at two distinct points, either directly or through the medium of some conducting body. The electric currents created in these fishes exercise all the other known powers of electricity : they render the needle magnetic, decompose chemical compounds, and emit the spark. The dorsal surface of the electric organ is positive, the ventral negative. Shocks accidentally given to persons are severely felt, and, if proceeding from a large healthy fish, will temporarily paralyse the arms of a strong man. The species of the genus Torpedo, six or seven in number, are distributed over the coasts of the Atlantic and Indian Ocean, and two reach northwards to the coasts of Great Britain (T. marmorata and T. hebetcms). They are said to attain to a weight of from 80 to 100 lb, but fortunately such gigantic specimens are scarce, and prefer sandy ground at some distance from the shore, where they are not disturbed by the violent agitation of the surface-water. Other genera, comprising species of smaller size, inhabit different parts of the tropical and subtropical seas. All the rays of this family have, like electric fishes generally, a smooth and naked body.
The fourth family, Raiidee, comprises the Skates and Rays proper, or Raia. More than thirty species are known, chiefly from the temperate seas of both hemispheres, but much more numerously from the northern than the southern. A few species descend to a depth of nearly 600 fathoms, without, however, essentially differing from their surface congeners. Rays, as is sufficiently indicated by the shape of their body, are bottom-fishes, living on flat sandy ground, generally at no great distance from the coast or the surface. They lead a sedentary life, progressing, like the flat-fishes, by an undulatory motion of the greatly extended pectoral fins, the thin slender tail having entirely lost the function of an organ of locomotion, and acting merely as a rudder. They are carnivorous and feed exclusively on molluscs, crustaceans, and fishes. Some of the species possess a much larger and more pointed snout than the others, and are popularly distinguished as “skates.” The following are known as inhabitants of the British seas :—(a) Shortsnouted species: (1) the Thornback (R. clavatd), (2) the Homelyn Ray (R. maculated), (3) the Starry Ray (R. radiata), (4) the Sandy Ray (R. circulars); (b) Long-snouted species, or Skates: (5) the Common Skate (R. batis), (6) the Flapper Skate (R. macrorhynchus), (7) the Burton Skate (R. marginata), (8) and (9) the Shagreen Skates (R. vomer and R. fullemica). A deep-sea species (R. hyper-borea) has recently been discovered near the Faroe Islands at 600 fathoms. Most of the skates and rays are eaten, except during the breeding season ; and even the young of the former are esteemed as food. The skates attain to a much larger size than the rays, viz., to a width of 6 feet and a weight of 400 and 500 R>.
The members of the fifth family, Trygonidae or Sting-rays, are distinguished from the rays proper by having the vertical fins replaced by a strong spine attached to the upper side of the tail. Some forty species are known, which inhabit tropical more than temperate seas. The spine is barbed on the sides and is a most effective weapon of defence ; by lashing the tail in every direction the sting-rays can inflict dangerous or at least extremely painful wounds. The danger arises from the lacerated nature of the wound as well as from the poisonous property of the mucus inoculated. Generally only one or two spines are developed. Sting-rays attain to about the same size as the skates and are eaten oil the coasts of the Mediterranean and elsewhere. One species (Trygon pastinaca) is not rarely found in the North Atlantic and extends northwards to the coasts of Ireland, England, and Norway.
The rays of the sixth and last family, Myliobatida, are popularly known under various names, such as “Devil-fishes,” “Sea-devils,” and “Eagle-rays.” In them the dilatation of the body, or rather the development of the pectoral fins, is carried to an extreme, whilst the tail is very thin and sometimes long like a whip-cord (fig. 3). Caudal spines are generally present and similar to those
of the sting-rays ; but in the pectoral fin a portion is detached and forms a “ cephalic ” lobe or pair of lobes in front of the snout. The dentition consists of perfectly flat molars, adapted for crushing hard substances. In some of the eagle-rays the molars are large and tessellated (fig. 4), in others extremely small. Of the twenty
species which are known, from tropical and temperate seas, the majority attain to a very large and some to an enormous size : one mentioned by Risso, which was taken at Messina, weighed 1250 lb. A foetus taken from the uterus of the mother (all eagle-rays are viviparous), captured at Jamaica and preserved in the British Museum, is 5 feet broad and weighed 20 if). The mother measured 15 feet in width and as many in length, and was between 3 and 4 feet thick. At Jamaica, where these rays are well known under the name of “ devil-fishes,” they are frequently attacked for sport’s sake, but their capture is uncertain and sometimes attended with danger. The eagle-ray of the Mediterranean (Myliobatis aquila) has strayed as far northwards as the south coast of England. (A. C. G.)
RAY or Wray (as he wrote his name till 1670), John (16281705־), sometimes called the father of English natural history, was the son of the blacksmith of Black Notley near Braintree in Essex. There he was born on 29th November 1628, or, according to other authorities, some months earlier. From Braintree school he was sent at the age of sixteen to Catherine Hall, Cambridge, whence he removed to Trinity College after about one year and three-quarters. His tutor at Trinity was Dr Duport, regius professor of Greek, and his intimate friend and fellow-pupil the celebrated Isaac Barrow. Ray was chosen minor fellow of Trinity in 1649, and in due course became a major fellow on proceeding to the master’s degree. He held many college offices, becoming successively lecturer in Greek (1651), mathematics (1653), and humanity (1655), prelector (1657), junior dean (1657), and college steward (1659 and 1660) ; and according to the habit of the time he was accustomed to preach in his college chapel and also at Great St Mary’s before the university, long before he took holy orders. Among his sermons preached before his ordination, which was not till 23d December 1660, were the famous discourses on The Wisdom of God in the Creation, and on the Chaos, Deluge, and Dissolution of the World. Ray’s reputation was high also as a tutor; he communicated his own passion for natural history to several pupils, of whom Francis Willughby is by far the most famous.
Ray’s quiet college life came to an abrupt close when he found himself unable to subscribe to the Act of Uniformity of 1661, and was accordingly obliged to give up his fellowship in 1662, the year after Isaac Newton had entered the college. We are׳ told by Dr Derham in his Life of Ray that the reason of his refusal “ was not (as some have imagined) his having taken the ‘ Solemn League and Covenant,’ for that he never did, and often declared that he ever thought it an unlawful oath; but he said he could not declare for those that had taken the oath that no obligation lay upon them, but feared there might.” From this time onwards he seems to have depended chiefly on the bounty of his pupil Willughby, who made Ray his constant companion while he lived, and at his death left him £60 a year, with the charge of educating his two sons.
In the spring of 1663 Ray started together with Willughby and two other of his pupils on a Continental tour, from which he returned in March 1666, parting from Willughby at Montpellier, whence the latter continued his journey into Spain. He had previously in three different journeys (1658, 1661, 1662) travelled through the greater part of Great Britain, and selections from his private notes of these journeys were edited by George Scott in 1760, under the title of Mr Ray’s Itineraries. Ray himself published an account of his foreign travel in 1673, entitled Observations topographical, moral, and physiological, made on a Journey through part of the Low Countries, Germany, Italy, and France. From this tour Ray and Willughby returned laden with collections, on which they meant to base complete systematic descriptions of the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Willughby undertook the former part, but, dying in 1672, left only an ornithology and ichthyology, in themselves vast, for Ray to edit; while the latter used the botanical collections for the groundwork of his Metliodus plantarum nova (1682), and his great Ilistoria generalis plantarum (1685). The plants gathered on his British tours had already been described in his Catalogus plantarum Angtise (1670), which work is the basis of all later English floras.
In 1667 Ray was elected a fellow of the Royal Society, and in 1669 he published in conjunction with Willughby his first paper in the Philosophical Transactions on “ Experiments concerning the Motion of Sap in Trees.” They demonstrated the ascent of the sap through the wood of the tree, and supposed the sap to “ precipitate a kind of white coagulum or jelly, which may be well conceived to be the part which every year between bark and tree turns to wood, and of which the leaves and fruits are made.” Immediately after his admission into the Royal Society he was induced by Bishop Wilkins to translate his Real Character into Latin, and it seems he actually completed a translation, which, however, remained in manuscript; his Metliodus plantarum nova was in fact undertaken as a !)art of Wilkins’s great classificatory scheme.
In 1673 Ray married Margaret Oakley of Launton (Oxford); in 1676 he went to Sutton Coldfield, and in 1677
to Falborne Hall in Essex. Finally, in 1679, lie removed to Black Notley, where he afterwards remained. His life there was quiet and uneventful, but embittered by bodily weakness and chronic sores. He occupied himself in writing books and in keeping up a very wide scientific correspondence, and lived, in spite of his infirmities, to the age of seventy-six, dying on 17th January 1705.
Ray’s first book, the Catalogas plantarum circa Cantabrigiarn nascentium (1660, followed by appendices in 1663 and 1685), was written in conjunction with his “ ainicissimus et individuus comes,” John Nid. The plants, 626 in number, are enumerated alphabetic-ally, but a system of classification differing little from Caspar Bauhin’s is sketched at the end of the book ; and the notes contain many curious references to other parts of natural history. The stations of the plants are minutely described; and Cambridge students still gather some of their rarer plants in the copses or chalk-pits where he found them. The book shows signs of his indebtedness to Joachim Jung of Hamburg, who had died in 1657 leaving his writings unpublished ; but a MS. copy of some of them was sent to Ray by Hartlieb in 1660. Jung invented or gave precision to many technical terms that Ray and others at once made use of in their descriptions, and that are now classical; and his notions of what constitutes a specific distinction and ■what characters are valueless as such seem to have been adopted with little change by Ray. The first two editions of the Catalogus plantarum A nglise (1670, 1677) were likewise arranged alphabetic-ally ; but in the Synopsis stirpium Britannicarum (1690, 1696, also re-edited by Dillenius 1724, and by Hill 1760) Ray applied the scheme of classification which he had by that time elaborated in the Mcthodus and the Historia plantarum. The Mcthodus plantarum nova (1682) was largely based on the works of Csesalpini and Jung, and still more on that of Morison of Oxford. The greatest merit of this book is the use of the number of cotyledons as a basis of classification ; though it must be remembered that the difference between the monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous embryo was detected by Grew. After dividing plants into flowerless and flowering, Ray says, “ Floríferas dividemus in Dicotyledones, quarum semina sata binis foliis anomalis, seminalibus dictis, quae cotyledonorum usum pnestant, e terra exeunt, vel in binos saltern lobos dividuntur, quamvis eos supra terram foliorum specie non efferent; et Monocotyledones, quae nec folia bina seminalia efferent nee lobos binos condunt. Hsec divisio ad arbores etiam extendi potest; siquidem Palmre et congeneres hoc respectu eodem modo a reliquis arboribus different quo Monocotyledones a reliquis herbis. ” But a serious blemish was his persistent separation of trees from herbs, a distinction whose falsity had been exposed by Jung and others, but to which Ray tried to give scientific foundation by denying the existence of buds in the latter. At this time he based his classification, like Caesalpini, chiefly upon the fruit, and he distinguished several natural groups, such as the grasses, Labiatse, Umbelliferse, and Papilionacese. The classification of the Mcthodus was extended and improved in the Historia plantarum, but was disfigured by a large class of Anómala,, to include forms that the other orders did not easily admit, and by the separation of the cereals from other grasses. The first volume of this vast book was published in 1685, the second in the next year, and the third in 1704 ; it enumerates and describes all the plants known to the author or described by his predecessors, to the number, according to Adanson, of 18,625 species. In the first volume a chapter “ De plantis in genere” contains an account of all the anatomical and physiological knowledge of the time regarding plants, with the recent speculations and discoveries of Csesalpini, Grew, Malpighi, and Jung. And Cuvier and Dupetit Thouars, declaring that it was this chapter which gave acceptance and authority to these authors’ works, say that “the best monument that could be erected to the memory of Ray would be the republication of this part of his work separately.” The Stirpium Europee-arum extra Britannias nascentium Sylloge (1694) is a much amplified edition of the catalogue of plants collected on his own Continental tour. In the preface to this book he first clearly admitted the doctrine of the sexuality of plants, which, however, he had no share in establishing. Here also begins his long controversy with Rivinus, which chiefly turned upon Ray’s indefensible separation of ligneous from herbaceous plants, and also upon what he conceived to be the misleading reliance that Rivinus placed on the characters of the corolla. But in the second edition of his Methodus (1703) he followed Rivinus and Tournefort in taking the flower instead of the fruit as his basis of classification : he was no longer a fructicist but a corollist.
Besides editing his friend Willughby’s books, Ray wrote several zoological works of his own, including Synopses of Quadrupeds (1693), that is to say, both mammals and reptiles, of Birds, and of Fishes (1713) ; the last two were published posthumously, as was also the more important Historia Insectorum (1710). The History of Insects embodied a great mass of Willughby’s notes, and the
Synopses of Birds and Fishes were mere abridgments of the “ Ornithology” and “Ichthyology.”
Most of Ray’s minor works were the outcome of his faculty for laborious compiling and cataloguing ; for instance, his Collection of English Proverbs (1670), his Collection of out-of-the-way English Words (1674), his Collection of Curious Travels and Voyages (1693), and his Dictionariolnm trilingue, or Nomenclátor classicus (1675). The last was written for the use of Willughby’s sons, his pupils ; it passed through many editions, and is still useful for its careful identifications of plants and animals mentioned by Greek and Latin writers. But Ray’s permanent influence and reputation have probably depended most of all upon his two books entitled The Wisdom of God manifested in the Works of the Creation (1691), and Miscellaneous Discourses concerning the Dissolution and Changes of the World (1692). The latter includes three essays, on “The Primitive Chaos and Creation of the World,” “The General Deluge, its Causes and Effects,” and “The Dissolution of the World and Future Conflagrations.” The germ of these works was contained in sermons preached long before in Cambridge. Both books obtained immediate popularity ; the former, at least, was translated into several languages ; and to this day their influence is apparent. For, as Sir J. Smith says in his biography of Ray, “this book [The Wisdom of God, &c.] is the basis of all the labours of following divines, who have made the book of nature a commentary on the Book of Revelation.” In it Ray recites innumerable examples of the perfection of organic mechanism, the multitude and variety of living creatures, the minuteness and usefulness of their parts. Many, if not most, of the familiar proofs of purposive adaptation and design in nature were suggested by Ray. The structure of the eye, the hollowness of the bones, the camel’s stomach, the hedgehog’s armour, are among the thousand instances cited by him of immediate creative interpositions. But, though his application of natural history to apologetic theology has made his reputation peculiarly wide, it must be acknowledged that none of his scientific discoveries at all equal in value those of the physiological botanists who immediately preceded him, and that even in classificatory insight he was surpassed by several of his contemporaries.
Authorities.—Select Remains, Itineraries, and Life, by Dr Derham, edited by George Scott, 1740 ; notice by Sir J. E. Smith in Ree’s Cyclopaedia ; notice by Cuvier and A. Dupetit Thouars in the Biographie Universelle ; all these were collected under the title Memorials of Ray, and edited (with the addition of a complete catalogue of his works) by Dr Edwin Lankester, 8vo (Ray Society), 1S46; Correspondence (with Willughby, Martin Lister, Dr Robinson, Petiver, Derham, Sir Hans Sloane, and others), edited by Dr Derham, 1718 ; Selections, with additions, edited by Lankester Ray Society), 1848. For accounts of Ray’s system of classification, see Cuvier, Leçons Hist. s. Sci. Nat., p. 488 ; Sprengel, Gesch. d. Botanik, ii. p. 40 ; also Whewell, Hist. Ind. Sci., iii. p. 332 (ed. 1847), and Wood, art. “Classification” in Ree’s Cyclopaedia.    (D. W. T.)
RAYMOND LULLY. See Lully.
RAYMOND of Sabunde (Sebonde, Sebeyde, Ac.) appears to have been born at Barcelona towards the end of the 14th century. He combined the training of a physician and a theologian, and was professor of theology at Toulouse, seemingly from the year 1430 oivwards. He published there in 1436 his chief work, Theologia Naturalis, sive liber creaturarum. This book was reprinted pretty frequently during the next two centuries, and has recently been republished at Sulzbacli (1852), but without the introduction, which, for some not very intelligible reason, was placed upon the Itidex by the council of Trent. It was translated into French by. Montaigne at the command of his father (see Montaigne, Essais, ii. 12). The six Dialogi de natura hominis are an extract from the larger work made by Raymond himself. Raymond is a scholastic of the period of decline. The chief thought of the Theologia Naturalis is the parallelism between the book of nature and the book of revelation. The second of these two books is more sacred on account of its supernatural character, but a foundation must be laid by the study of the first. Nature culminates in man, who alone of the creatures possesses all the four properties which mark off the different grades of existence (esse, vivere, sentire, intelligere). But man himself points forward to a self-existent unity in which individual differences disappear. Everything that we find in the creatures is present in God without limitation or negation, so that God’s being is the universal being of all things. Hence it is true that God created the world out of nothing. Raymond endeavours to deduce the principal dogmas of the church by the natural light in a similar fashion. Man’s own advantage and the glory of God are
the ultimate rules of conduct, and the coincidence of the two is maintained on the ground of the joys of knowledge. Knowledge has its natural consummation in the knowledge of God ; man’s knowledge of God is at the same time the love and gratitude which he, as representative of the creatures and mediator between them and God, continually offers to the divine majesty. The fact that self-love and the love of God are at present often in conflict is traced by Raymond to the fall of the first human pair ; and this gives him occasion to deduce the doctrine of the incarnation, almost in the words of Anselm’s Cur Deus homo.
RAYNAL, Guillaume Thomas François (1713-1796), was born on 12th April 1713 in the province of Rouergue, and was educated at Pézenas by the Jesuits. He took orders, and, going to Paris, did parish work ; but he left the priesthood (being indeed deprived for misconduct) and betaking himself to literature soon became one of the minor members of the philosophe coterie. He did not a little journalism and bookmaking of divers kinds ; but his name would be entirely forgotten were it not for the Histoire philosophique et politique des Établissements et du Commerce des Européens dans les Deux Indes. This book is not, and indeed was not in its own day, of any substantive value as a book of reference on its nominal subject ; but it exercised considerable influence : it was exceedingly characteristic of the period and society which produced it, and passages of it are still worth reading. The secret of its merits and its faults is to be found in the manner of its composition. Raynal himself wrote but a small part of it, and he took not the slightest pains to make it a homogeneous work. But he borrowed from books and he begged from his own friends all manner of diatribes against superstition and tyranny, often illustrated by lively anecdotes and eloquent tirades. Grimm assigns a full third of the book to Diderot, which is probably an exaggeration, but that Diderot had a great hand in it no judge of style can doubt. It was published in 1772, and brought the author many compliments, even from men like Gibbon, who should have known better. A new edition in 1780 was even bolder. It was condemned and burned (29th May 1781), and the author had to fly the country. He returned just before the Revolution, but having apparently a natural tendency to opposition he became a strong Royalist. He died on 6th March 1796.
No other work of Raynal’s deserves notice here. The best account in English of the Histoire des Indes will be found in Mr John Morley’s Diderot, vol. ii. chap. xv.
RAZORBILL or Razor-billed Auk, known also on many parts of the British coasts as the Marrot, Murre, Scout, Tinker, or Willock—names which it, however, shares with the Guillemot (vol. xi. p. 262), and to some extent with the Puffin (see above, p. 101)—a common sea-bird of the Northern Atlantic,@@1 resorting in vast numbers to certain stations on rocky cliffs for the purpose of breeding, and, its object being accomplished, returning to deeper waters for the rest of the year. It is the Alca tor da of Linnæus @@2  and most modern authors, congeneric with the Gare-fowl (vol. x. p. 78), if not with the true Guillemots, between which two forms it is intermediate—differing from the former in its small size and retaining the power of flight,
@@@1    Schlegel {Mus. des Pays-Bas, Urinatores, p. 14) records an example from Japan ; but this must be in error.
@@@2    The word Alca is simply the Latinized form of this bird’s common Teutonic name, Aik, of which Auk is the English modification. It must therefore be held to be the type of the Linnsean genus Alca, though some systematists on indefensible grounds have removed it thence, making it the sole member of a genus named by Leach, after Aldrovandus (Ornithologia, bk. xix. chap, xlix.), Utamania—an extraordinary word, that seems to have originated in some mistake from the no less extraordinary Vuttamaria, given by Belon (Observations, i. c. xi.) as the Cretan name of some diving bird, which certainly could not have been the present species.
which that presumably extinct species has lost, and from the latter in its peculiarly-shaped bill, which is vertically enlarged, compressed, and deeply furrowed, as well as in its elongated, wedge-shaped tail. A fine white line, running on each side from the base of the culmen to the eye, is in the adult bird in breeding-apparel (with a few very rare exceptions) a further obvious characteristic. Otherwise the appearance of all these birds may be briefly described in the same words—head, bi’east, and upper parts generally of a deep glossy black, and the lower parts and tip of the secondaries of a pure white, while the various changes of plumage dependent on age or season are alike in all. In habits the Razorbill closely agrees with the true Guillemots, laying its single egg (which is not, however, subject to the same amazing variety of coloration that is pre-eminently the Guillemot’s own) on the ledges of the cliffs to which it repairs in the breeding-season, but it is said then as a rule to occupy higher elevations, and when not breeding to keep further out to sea. On the east side of the Atlantic the Razorbill has its stations on convenient parts of the coast from the North Cape to Britanny, besides several in the Baltic, while in winter it passes much further to the southward, and is sometimes numerous in the Bay of Gibraltar, occasionally entering the Mediterranean but apparently never extending to the eastward of Sicily or Malta. On the west side of the Atlantic it breeds from 70° N. lat. on the eastern shore of Baffin’s Bay to Cape Farewell, and again on the coast of America from Labrador and Newfoundland to the Bay of Fundy, while in winter it reaches Long Island, (a. n.)
RAZZI, Gianantonio. See Soddoma.
RÉ, Isle of, a long, low island 3 miles off the coast of the French department of Charente Inférieure, runs south-east and north-west with a breadth of about 3 miles and a length of 18£ miles. The north-west point (Pointe des Baleines) has a lighthouse of the first class. The Pertuis Breton separates the island from the coast of La Vendée to the north, and the Pertuis d’Antioche from the Isle of Oléron to the south. With a surface of 18,259 acres, the Isle of Ré has 15,370 inhabitants, whose chief source of income is the salt marshes, producing annually 31,500 tons of salt. The island has also a vineyard and corn lands, and boasts of the excellence of its figs, pears, and cream. Apart from the orchards it is now woodless, though once covered with forests. Oysters are successfully cultivated, the annual supply of these molluscs being 35,000,000. The coast facing the Atlantic is rocky and inhospitable, but there are numerous harbours on the landward side. The island seems once to have been united to the continent, with which it is still connected by a line of sunken rocks ; its existence is not mentioned before the 8th century. Tradition says that the city of Antioche on the west coast was destroyed by the Atlantic storms, which still constantly threaten to cut the island in two at the isthmus (only 230 feet wide) formed by the gulf called Fier d’Ars. There are two cantons—St Martin and Ars-en-Ré—in the arrondissement of La Rochelle. St Martin, with a secure harbour, was fortified by Vauban, and is the depot for convicts on their way to New Caledonia.
READE, Charles (1814-1884), holds a high and distinctive place among the English novelists of the third quarter of the 19th century. The son of an Oxfordshire squire, he was born at Ipsden in 1814, and was educated for the bar. He entered Magdalen College, Oxford, proceeded B.A. in 1835, with a third class in classics, was elected Vinerian Reader in 1842, and was called to the bar (Lincoln’s Inn) in 1843. It was comparatively late in his life that he made his first appearance as an author, but he showed at once that he had subjected himself to a laborious apprenticeship to the study of life and literature.
He began as a dramatist, and this his first ambition shaped and coloured his work to the end. It was his own wish that the word “ dramatist ” should stand first in the description of his occupations on his tombstone. He was dramatist first and novelist afterwards, not merely chronologically but in his aims as an author, always having an eye to stage-effect in scene and situation as well as in dialogue. Gold, his first play (1850), was but a moderate success. He did not achieve popularity till 1856, when he produced It , s Never Too Late to Mend, a novel written with the purpose of reforming abuses in prison discipline and the treatment of criminals. The prosecution of his moral purpose carried him too far for most of his readers; he described prison life with a minuteness and fidelity— the result of laborious studies of blue-books and newspapers and personal inquiries—which become at times tedious and revolting; but the power of the descriptions was undeniable, and the interest of the story, in spite of all overelaboration of painful details, was profound and thrilling. The truth of some of his details was challenged, and the novelist showed himself a pungent controversialist. From first to last he defended himself with vigour and great strength of language against all attempts to rebut his contentions or damage his literary property. It , s Never Too Late to Mend was his first great success, but before this he had gained the respect of critics with two shorter novels, Peg Woffington (1852), a close study of life and character behind the scenes, and Christie Johnstone (1853), an equally close study of Scotch fisher folk, an extraordinary tour de force for the son of an English squire, whether we consider the dialect or the skill with which he enters into alien habits of thought. He had also established his position as a dramatist by writing (in combination with Mr Tom Taylor) a stage version of Peg Woffington under the title of Masks and Faces (1854), the most successful and the most frequently reproduced of his plays, besides three that were less successful, The Courier of Lyons (a powerful melodrama), Two Loves and a Life, and The King's Rivals (1854). From 1856 onwards he kept his position in the foremost rank of contemporary novelists. Five minor novels followed in quick succession,—The Course of True Love never did Run Smooth (1857), Jack of all Trades (1858), The Autobiography of a Thief (1858), Love Me Little, Love Me Long (1859), The Double Marriage, or White Lies (1860). Then appeared, in 1861, what most critics regard as his masterpiece, The Cloister and the Heart¡{. He had dealt with the subject two years before in a short story in Once a Week, but, seeing its capabilities, he returned to it and expanded it into its present form. As a picture of manners it is broad and full; yet amply as the novelist illustrates the times he very rarely becomes tedious or allows the thrilling interest of the story to lapse. Returning from the 15th century to modern English life, he next produced another startling novel with a purpose, Hard Cash (1863), in which he strove to direct attention to the abuses of private lunatic asylums. Three more such novels, in two of which at least the moral purpose, though fully kept in view, was not allowed to obstruct the rapid flow of thrilling incident, were afterwards undertaken,— Foul Play (1869), in which he exposed the iniquities of ship-knackers, and paved the way for the labours of Mr Plimsoll; Put Yourself in his Place (1870), in which he grappled with the tyrannous outrages of trades-unions; and A Woman-Hater (1877), in which he gave a helping hand to the advocates of woman’s rights. The Wandering Heir (1875), of which he also wrote a version for the stage, was suggested by the Tichborne trial. Outside the line of these moral and occasional works Reade produced three that might be classified as psychological, inasmuch as they were elaborate studies of character,—Griffith Gaunt (1866),
A Terrible Temptation (1871), A Simpleton (1873). The first of these was in his own opinion the best of his novels, and his own opinion was probably right. He was wrong, however, in his own conception of his powers as a dramatist. At intervals throughout his literary career he sought to gratify his dramatic ambition, hiring a theatre and engaging a company for the representation of his own plays. An example of his persistency was seen in the case of Foul Play. He wrote this in 1869 in combination with Mr Dion Boucicault with a view to stage adaptation. The play was more or less a failure; but he produced another version alone in 1877, under the title of A Scuttled Ship, and the failure was pronounced. His greatest success as a dramatist attended his last attempt—Drink—an adaptation of Zola’s L'Assommoir, produced in 1879. At his death in 1884 (11th April) Reade left behind him a completed novel, A Perilous Secret, which showed no falling off in the art of weaving a complicated plot and devising thrilling situations.
It was characteristic of Reade’s open and combative nature that he admitted the public freely to the secrets of his method of composition. He spoke about his method in his prefaces ; he introduced himself into one of his novels—“Dr Rolfe” in A Terrible Temptation ; and by his will he left his workshop and his accumulation of materials open for inspection for two years after his death. It appears that he had collected an enormous mass of materials for his study of human nature, from personal observation, from newspapers, books of travel, blue-books of commissions of inquiry, from miscellaneous reading. This vast collection of notes, cuttings, extracts, gathered together week by week and year by year, is classified and arranged in huge ledgers and note-books duly paged and indexed. He had planned a great work on “ the wisdom and folly of nations,” dealing with social, political, and domestic details, and it was chiefly for this that his collection was destined, but in passing he found the materials very useful as a store of incidents and suggestions. A collector of the kind was bound to be systematic, otherwise his collection would have fallen into inextricable confusion, and Reade’s collection contains many remarkable curiosities in classification and tabulation. On the value of this method for his art there has been much discussion, the prevalent opinion being that his imagination was overwhelmed and stifled by it. He himself strenuously maintained the contrary ; and it must be admitted that a priori critics have not rightly understood the use that he made of his laboriously collected facts. He did not merely shovel the contents of his note - books into his novels ; they served rather as an atmosphere of reality in which he worked, so that his novels were like pictures painted in the open air. His imagination worked freely among them and was quickened rather than impeded by their suggestions of things suited to the purpose in hand ; and it is probably to his close and constant contact with facts, acting on an imagination naturally fertile, that we owe his marvellous and unmatchable abundance of incident. Even in his novels of character there is no meditative and analytic stagnation ; the development of character is shown through a rapid unceasing progression of significant facts. This rapidity of movement was perhaps partly the result of his dramatic studies ; it was probably in writing for the stage that he learned the value of keeping the attention of his readers incessantly on the alert. The hankering after stage effect, while it saved him from dulness, often betrayed him into rough exaggeration, especially in his comic scenes. But the gravest defect in his work is a defect of temper. His view of human life, especially of the life of women, is harsh, almost brutal; his knowledge of frailties and vices is obtruded with repellent force ; and he cannot, with all his skill and power as a storyteller, be numbered among the great artists who warm the heart and help to improve the conduct. But as a moral satirist and castigator, which was the function he professed over and above that of a story-teller, he undoubtedly did good service, both indirectly in his novels and directly in his own name.    (W. M.)
READING, a market-town and ancient borough of Berkshire, is pleasantly situated on slightly elevated ground on the banks of the Kennet, a short distance above its junction with the Thames, and on branches of the Great Western, South-Eastern, and South-Western Railways, 28 miles south-south-east of Oxford and 354 west of London by rail. Besides the facilities on the Thames there is water communication by the Kennet to Newbury, and by the Kennet and Avon Canal to the Severn. The Thames is crossed by one bridge and the Kennet by three. The
town is well built, with wide and regular streets and many good villas in the suburbs. Of the magnificent Benedictine abbey founded in 1121 by King Henry I., originally one of the three wealthiest in England, all that now remains is a mass of ruins (with the exception of the gateway, which was restored in 1861 and is now carefully preserved), a portion of the great hall (in which several parliaments have been held), and the foundation of the Norman apsidal chapel. Henry I., who died at Rouen, was buried within its precincts; but his monument was destroyed in the time of Edward VI.; and John of Gaunt was married there to Blanche of Lancaster in 1359. By Henry VIII. it was converted into a palace, which formed the occasional residence of subsequent sovereigns until its destruction during the Cromwellian wars. Of other old ecclesiastical buildings of special interest the principal are Greyfriars’ church, completed about 1311, formerly the church of Greyfriars’ monastery, but after the dissolution used successively as a town-hall, a workhouse, and a jail, until it was restored to its original use in 1864 ; St Mary’s church, rebuilt, according to Camden, in 1551 from the ruins of a nunnery founded by Elfrida to expiate the murder of her stepson (Edward the Martyr); the church of St Lawrence, originally Norman, but rebuilt in the 15th century in the Early English style, containing some interesting brasses; and the church of St Giles, of mixed architecture, which was severely damaged during the Cromwellian wars. At the free grammar-school, founded in 1445, Archbishop Laud received his education, and he afterwards became a generous benefactor to it. The school was removed in 1871 to new buildings surrounded by 12 acres of ground. Other educational foundations are the Kendrick schools (1624), the blue-coat school (1656), and the green-coat school for girls (1779). The various almshouses were consolidated into one building in 1865. Among the modern structures are the municipal buildings (in the Renaissance style, erected in 1875 and enlarged in 1882, containing a large concert-room, a free library, schools for science and art, and a museum), the corn exchange, the assize courts, the athenaeum, the royal Albert hall, the masonic hall, the workhouse, and the royal Berkshire hospital. The town has a large trade in corn and agricultural produce ; and, in addition to an extensive biscuit manufactory which employs over 3000 hands, it possesses iron-works, iron-foundries, engine works, and breweries. Adjoining the town are extensive seed nurseries covering about 10,000 acres. The population of the borough (area, 2186 acres) in 1871 was 32,324, and in 1881 it was 42,054.
The origin of the town is doubtful ; but Reading must have been a place of some importance when the Danes in 871 brought their war-ships up the Thames as far as the Kennet and made the town for some time their headquarters. It was burned by Sweyn in 1006. In Domesday the name occurs as Radynges. A new and strong castle was erected here by Stephen, which was destroyed by Henry II. In 1209 the professors and students of Oxford made a temporary retreat to Reading, owing to a quarrel with King John. From the 13th to the 16th century parliaments were frequent!}7  held in the town, and in the Michaelmas term of 1625 the law courts were transferred to it on account of the prevalence of the plague in London. In 1643 it surrendered to the Parliamentary forces under the earl of Essex, and subsequently was more than once occupied by the rival armies. It is a borough by prescription and received charters and grants from Henry III. and subsequent sovereigns. It has returned members to parliament from the 23d of Edward I. ; the number was reduced from two to one in 1885. By the Municipal Act of 1836 it was divided into three wards governed by a mayor, six aldermen, and eighteen councillors.
READING, a city of the United States, capital of Berks county, Pennsylvania, on the east bank of the Schuylkill river, and on the Schuylkill and Union Canals, 58 miles north-west of Philadelphia at the intersection of some fourteen railway lines, representing eight different companies. It occupies an elevated and healthy position
on a plain that gradually rises towards an amphitheatre of hills, including Penn’s Mount on the east and Neversink Mountain on the south. The plan is extremely regular and the principal streets cross at Penn Square, the business centre of the city. An abundant supply of excellent water helps to keep the whole place sweet and clean. Conspicuous buildings are—the court-house, the city-hall, Trinity Church (Lutheran), Christ Church (Episcopal), the opera-house, Misliler’s academy of music, and the railway station. Besides a very extensive and varied manufacture of iron and iron wares from steam-boilers down to nails, Reading carries on distilling, tanning, cotton-weaving, cigar-rolling, paper-making, and many other industries, and is the seat of extensive machine-shops of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad. The population—2385 in 1800, 15,743 in 1850, 33,930 in 1870, and 43,278 in 1880—is largely of German origin; and in 1883 one out of its five daily newspapers and six out of its eleven weeklies were in German.
Laid out in 1748 by Thomas and Richard Penn, Reading received incorporation as a borough in 1783, and was made a city in 1847.
RE ALE JO, a town and harbour on the Pacific coast of Nicaragua, situated in the neighbourhood of 12° 28' N. lat. The harbour is spacious and well sheltered, and altogether the best which Nicaragua possesses on that coast; it is protected by a peninsula and two considerable islands, Cardon and Asserradores or Corinto. The town lies 9 miles inland, and as a port is now superseded by the new town of Corinto, founded about 1849, and since 1881 connected with Leon and the interior by a railway. Realejo was the terminus adopted by Bedford Pirn for his scheme of an interoceanic canal; but the route actually sanctioned reaches the coast of the Pacific at Brito, some distance to the south.
REAL ESTATE. The land law of England and of countries whose law is based upon that of England stands in a peculiar position, which can be understood only by an outline of its history.
History.—Such terms as “ fee ” or “ homage ” carry us far back into feudal times. Rights of common and distress are based upon still older institutions, forming the very basis of primitive law. The conception of tenure is the most fundamental ground of distinction between real and personal estate, the former only being strictly entitled to the name of estate (see Estate). The division into real and personal is coincident to a great extent with that into immovable and movable, generally used by systems of law founded on the Roman (see Personal Estate). That it is not entirely coincident is due to the influence of the Roman law itself. The Greeks and the Romans of the republic were essentially nations of citizens; the Teutons were essentially a nation of land-folk ; the Roman empire bridged the gulf between the two. It is probable that the English land law was produced by the action of the policy adopted in the lower empire, finally developed into feudalism, upon the previously existing course of Teutonic custom (see Feudalism). It is sufficient to say here that the distinguishing features of the Teutonic system were enjoyment in common and the absence of private ownership, except to a limited extent. The history of the development of the old English land law before the Conquest will be found under England and Land. Its principal features, stated as shortly as possible, were (1) liberty of alienation, either by will or inter vivos, of such land as could be alienated, chiefly, if not entirely, bocland, subject always to the limits fixed by the hoc·, (2) publicity of transfer by enrolment in the shire-book or churcli-book ; (3) equal partition of the estate of a deceased among the sons, and failing sons among the daughters; (4) cultivation to a great extent by persons in various
degrees of serfdom, owing money or labour rents; (5] variety of custom, tending to become uniform, through the application of the same principles in the local courts ; (6) subjection of land to the trinoda nécessitas, a burden imposed for the purpose of defence of the realm. The rudiments of the conceptions of tenure and of the crown as lord paramount were found in the old English system, and lænland was an antici]:>ation of the limited interests which afterwards became of such importance.@@1 The connexion of political privileges with the ownership of land is not peculiar to the pre-Conquest or any other period. It runs through the whole of English history. Originally all freeholders seem to have voted in the county court. Finally the Reform Acts of this century, however they may have lowered the qualification, still require (except in the case of the university vote) the vote to be derived from an interest in land. No amount of consols will give a vote at a parliamentary election. A qualification from land is also necessary in the case of sheriff, justices of the peace, and other public officials.
The elements of feudalism so far existed in England under the Anglo-Saxon and Danish kings as to make it easy to introduce it in full at the Norman Conquest. Feudalism was not so much a distinct and separate creation, developed at once in its maturity, as a collection of institutions whose origin was to be found in unconnected sources. What the Norman Conquest did was not to change all at once allodial into feudal tenure, but to complete the association of territorial with personal dependence in a state of society already prepared for it.@@2 “Nulle terre sans seigneur” was one of the fundamental axioms of feudalism. There might be any number of infeudations and subinfeudations to mesne lords, but the chain of seigniory was complete, depending in the last resort upon the king as lord paramount. Land was not owned by free owners owing only necessary militia duties to the state, but was held of the king by military service of a far more onerous nature. The folkland became the king’s land ; the soldier was a landowner instead of the landowner being a soldier. Free owners tended to become tenants of the lord, the township to be lost in the manor.@@3 The common land became in law the waste of the manor, its enjoyment resting upon a presumed grant by the lord. On the other hand, the whole of England did not become manorial ; the conflict between the township and the manor resulted in a compromise, the result of which affects English tenure to this day. But it was a compromise much to the advantage of the privileged class, for in England more than in any other country the land law is the law of the nobility and not of the people. One reason of this is that, as England was never so completely feudalized as were some of the Continental states, the burden of feudalism was not so severely felt, and has led to less agitation for reform.
The land forfeited to the Conqueror was regranted by him to be held by military service due to the king, not to the mesne lord as in Continental feudalism. In 1086 at the council of Salisbury all the landholders swore fealty to the crown. In the full vigour of feudalism the inhabitants of England were either free or not free. The free inhabitants held their lands either by free tenure (liberum tenementum, franktenement) or by a tenure which was originally that of a non-free inhabitant, but attached to land in the possession of a free man. Franktenement was
either military tenure, called also tenure in knight service or chivalry (including barony, the highest tenure known to the law, grand serjeanty and the special forms of escuage, castle-guard, cornage, and others), or socage (including burgage and petit serjeanty), or frankalmoign (libera elee-mosyna) or divine service, by which ecclesiastical corporations generally held their land.@@4 The non-free inhabitants were in Domesday Book servi, cotarii, or bordarii, later nativi or villani, the last name being applied to both free men and serfs. All these were in a more or less dependent condition. The free tenures all exist at the present day, though, as will appear later, the military tenures have shrunk into the unimportant and exceptional tenure of grand serjeanty. The non-free tenures are to a certain extent represented by Copyhold (q.v.). The most important difference between the military and socage tenures was the mode of descent. Whether or not a feudal benefice was originally hereditary, it had certainly become so at the time of the Conquest, and it descended to the eldest son. This applied at once in England to land held by military service as far as regarded the capital fief. The descent of socage lands or lands other than the capital fief for some time followed the old pre-Conquest rule of descent. Thus in the so-called “ Laws of Henry I. ” the lands other than the capital fief, and in Glanvill, who wrote in the time of Henry II., socage lands, if anciently partible (antiquitus divisum), were divided among all the sons equally. But by the time of Bracton (Henry III.) the course of descent of lands held by military service had so far prevailed that, though it was a question of fact whether the land was partible or not, if there was no evidence either way descent to the eldest son was presumed. Relics of the old custom still remain in the case of gavelkind (see below). The military tenant was subject to the feudal incidents, from which the tenant in socage was exempt. These incidents, especially wardship and marriage, were often of a very oppressive nature. Alienation of lands by will, except in a few favoured districts, became impossible; alienation inter vivos was restrained in one direction in the interests of the heir, in another in the interests of the lord. At the time of Glanvill a tenant had a greater power of alienation over land which he had purchased (terra acquietatd) than over land which he had inherited. But by the time of Bracton the heir had ceased to have any interest in either kind of land. The lords were more successful. It was enacted by Magna Charta that a free man should not give or sell so much of his land as to leave an amount insufficient to perform his services to his lord. In spite of this provision, the rights of the lords were continually diminished by subinfeudation until the passing of the Statute of Quia Emptores. Alienation by a tenant in chief of the crown without licence was a ground of forfeiture until 1 Edw. III. st. 2, c. 12, by which a fine was substituted. The modes of conveyance at this time were only two, feoffment with livery of seisin for corporeal hereditaments, grant for incorporeal hereditaments. Livery of seisin, though public, was not officially recorded like the old English transfer of property. The influence of local custom upon the land law must have become weakened after the circuits of the judges of the King’s Court were established by Henry II. Jurisdiction over litigation touching the freehold was taken away from the lords’ courts by 15 Ric. II. c. 12.
The common law as far as it dealt with real estate had in the main assumed its present aspect by the reign of Henry III. The changes which have been made since that date have been chiefly due to the action of equity
@@@1    The name has not remained as in Germany and Denmark. A fief is still Lehen in Germany, Lehn in Denmark.
@@@2    ‘ ‘ The relation of vassalage, originally personal, became annexed to the tenure of land” (Palgrave, Rise and Progress of the English Commonwealth, vol. i. p. 505).
@@@8 It is a disputed point whether the manor organization existed before the Conquest; but its full development seems to have been later than that event.
@@@4 Frankalmoign was not always regarded as a distinct tenure. Thus Littleton (§ 118) says that all that is not tenure in chivalry is tenure
in socage.
and legislation, the latter sometimes interpreted by the courts in a manner very different from the intention of parliament. The most important influence of equity has been exercised in Mortgage (q.v.) and trusts (see Trust), in the doctrine of specific performance of contracts concerning real estate, and in relief from forfeiture for breach of covenant. As to legislation, it is impossible in this place to do more than direct attention to the main provisions of the principal statutes among the mass of those which from Magna Charta downwards have dealt with real estate.
History of Real Estate Legislation.—The reign of Edward I. is notable for three leading statutes which are still law, all passed in the interests of the superior lords. The Statute of Mortmain (7 Edw. I. st. 2, c. 13) is the first of a long series directed against the acquisition of land by religious and charitable corporations (see Charities). The statute De Donis Conditionalibus (13 Edw. I. c. 1) forbade the alienation of estates granted to a man and the heirs of his body, which before the statute became on the birth of an heir at once alienable (except in the case of gifts in frankmarriage), and so the lord lost his escheat. For the mode in which the statute was practically defeated and estates tail in their modern form created see Entail. The statute Quia Emptores (18 Edw. I. c. 1) preserved those rights of the lords which were up to that time subject to be defeated by subinfeudation, by enacting that in any alienation of lands the alienee should hold them of the same lord of the fee as the alienor.@@1 Since 1290 it has been impossible to create an estate in fee-simple to be held of a mesne lord, or to reserve a rent upon a grant of an estate in fee (unless in the form of a rent-charge), or to create a new manor. The statute, however, does not bind the crown. The practical effect of the statute was to make the transfer of land thenceforward more of a commercial and less of a feudal transaction. The writ of elegit wr as introduced by the Statute of Westminster II. in 1285 as a creditor’s remedy over real estate. It has, however, been considerably modified by subsequent legislation. From 1290 to the I’eign of Henry VIII. there is no statute of the first importance dealing with real estate. The reign of Henry VIII., like the reign of Edward I., is signalized by three Acts, the effects of which continue to this day. The one which has had the most lasting influence in law is the Statute of Uses, 27 Hen. VIII. c. 10 (see Conveyancing, Trust). The Statute of Uses was intended to provide against secrecy of sales of land, and as a necessary sequel to it an Act of the same year (27 Hen. VIII. c. 16) enacted that all bargains and sales of land should be duly enrolled (see Sale). Bargain and sale was a form of equitable transfer which had for some purposes superseded the common law feoffment. It applied only to estates of inheritance and not to terms of years. The unforeseen effect of 27 Hen. VIII. c. 16 was to establish as the ordinary form of conveyance until 1841 the conveyance by lease and release.@@2 Uses having become legal estate by the Statute of Uses, and therefore no longer devisable, 32 Hen. VIII. c. 1 (explained by 34 and 35 Hen. VIII. c. 5) was passed to remedy this inconvenience. It is still law as to wills made before 1838 (see Will). In the reign of Elizabeth the Acts of 13 Eliz. c. 5 and 27 Eliz. c. 4 avoided fraudulent conveyances as against all parties and voluntary conveyances as against subsequent purchasers for valuable consideration. Early in the reign of Charles II. the Act of 1661 (12 Car. II. c. 24) turned all the feudal tenures (with the exception
of frankalmoign and grand serjeanty) into tenure by free and common socage and abolished the feudal incidents. The Statute of Frauds (29 Car. II. c. 3) contained provisions that certain leases and assignments, and that all agreements and trusts relating to land, should be in writing (see Fraud). The land registries of Middlesex and Yorkshire date from the reign of Anne (see Registration). Devises of land for charitable purposes were forbidden by the Mortmain Act (9 Geo. II. c. 36). In the next reign the first general Inclosure Act was passed, 41 Geo. III. c. 109 (see Commons). In the reign of William IV. were passed the Prescription, Limitation, and Tithe Commutation Acts (see Prescription, Limitation, Tithes) ; fines and recoveries were abolished and simpler modes of conveyance substituted by 3 and 4 Will. IV. c. 74; and the laws of inheritance and dower were amended by 3 and 4 Will. IV. cc. 105, 106 (see Inheritance, Husband and Wife). In the reign of Victoria there has been a vast mass of legislation dealing with real estate in almost every conceivable aspect. At the immediate beginning of the reign stands the Wills Act (see Will). The transfer of real estate has been simplified by 8 and 9 Viet. c. 106 and by the Conveyancing Acts of 1881 and 1882 (see below). Additional powers of dealing with settled estates were given by the Settled Estates Act, 1856, later by the Settled Estates Act, 1877, and the Settled Land Act, 1882 (see Settlement). Succession duty was levied for the first time on freeholds in 1853. The strictness of the Mortmain Act has been relaxed in favour of gifts and sales to public institutions of various kinds, such as schools, parks, and museums. The period of limitation has been shortened for most purposes from tw׳enty to twelve years by the Real Property Limitation Act, 1874 (see Limitation). Several Acts have been passed dealing with the enfranchisement and commutation of copyholds and the preservation of commons and open spaces (see Commons, Copyhold). The Naturalization Act, 1870 (33 and 34 Viet. c. 14), enables aliens to hold and transfer land in England. The Felony Act, 1870 (33 and 34 Viet. c. 23), abolished forfeiture of real estate on conviction for felony. The Agricultural Holdings Act, 1883 (46 and 47 Viet. c. 61), gives the tenant of a tenancy within the Act a general right to compensation for improvements, substitutes a year’s notice to quit for the six months’ notice previously necessary, enlarges the tenant’s right to fixtures, and limits distress to a year’s rent. By 47 and 48 Viet. c. 71 the law of escheat is extended to incorporeal hereditaments and equitable estates. Among other subjects which have been dealt with by recent legislation may be mentioned Registration, Mortgage, Partition, Excambion, Fixtures (qq.vv.), taking of land in execution, declaration of title, and apportionment. Not a year passes in which the land law is not altered to a greater or less degree. Bills have been introduced within recent years, but hitherto unsuccessfully, for amending the law by the assimilation of the succession to real and personal estate, and for the compulsory enfranchisement of leaseholds.
Real estate at the present day is either legal or equitable, a difference resting mainly upon historical grounds (see Equity, Trust). The following observations apply in general to both kinds of estate. The usual classification of interests in real estate regards either the extent, the time, or the mode of enjoyment. The division according to the extent is in the first instance into corporeal and incorporeal hereditaments, a division based upon the Roman law division of res into corporales and incorporales, and open to the same objection, that it is unscientific as co-ordinating subjects of rights with the rights themselves.@@3 Corporeal hereditaments, says Blackstone, “consist of such as affect the senses, such as may be seen and handled by the body ; incorporeal are not the objects of sensation, can neither be seen nor handled, are creatures of the mind, and
@@@1    Tenants in chief of the crown were liable to a fine on alienation until 12 Car. II. c. 24.
@@@2    From the reign of Edward IV. at latest up to the Fines and Recoveries Act of 1833 fines and recoveries were also recognized as a means of conveyance. They are so regarded in the Statute of Uses.
@@@3 In spite of this objection the division is adopted by the legislature ; see, for instance, 47 and 48 Viet. c. 71.
exist only in contemplation.” Corporeal hereditaments are all necessarily freehold ;@@1 an interest in land less than freehold, such as a term of years, is personalty only. There Aras no room for such an interest in the feudal gradation of tenure ; it was regarded as a mere personal contract and was incapable of the incidents of tenure. By the Conveyancing Act, 1881 (44 and 45 Viet. c. 41, s. 65), the residue of a long term of years may in certain casés be enlarged into the fee-simple. A copyhold is in strict law only a tenancy at the will of the lord (see Copyhold). Estates of freehold are either estates for life or in fee (called also estates of inheritance), the latter being in fee-tail or in fee-simple. An estate for life may he either for the life of the tenant or for the life of another person, the latter called an estate pur autre vie. The former kind of estate includes estates of dower and curtesy (see Husband and Wife). An estate in fee is called a fee simply, an obvious sign of its feudal origin. Estates tail are either general or special, the latter being in tail male or (rarely) in tail female. There may also be a quasi-entail of an estate pur autre vie (see Entail). An estate in fee-simple is the largest estate known to English laAV. Its ordinary incidents are an oath of fealty (never exacted), Escheat (q.v. ), and (in a manor) suit of the court baron, and occasionally a small quit-rent and relief. All these are obviously relics of the once important feudal incidents. Incorporeal hereditaments consist chiefly, if not wholly, of rights in alicno solo. They are divided by Mr Joshua Williams (Real Property, pt. ii.) into (1) reversions, remainders, and executory interests, (2) hereditaments purely incorporeal, the last being either appendant, appurtenant, Olin gross. Examples are profits a prendre (such as rights of common), easements (such as rights of way),@@2 seigniories, advoAVSons, rents, tithes, titles of honour, offices, franchises. Before 1845 corporeal hereditaments were said to lie in livery, incorporeal in grant. But by 8 and 9 Viet. c. 106, s. 2, all corporeal hereditaments are, as regards the conveyance of the immediate freehold thereof, to be deemed to lie in grant as well as in livery. With regard to the time of enjoyment, estates are either in possession or in expectancy, —that is, in reversion or remainder or executory interests (see Remainder). With regard to the mode of enjoyment, estates are either joint, in common, in coparcenary, or in severalty.
Exceptional Tenures.—It has been already stated that there are still to be found survivals of the old pre-Conquest customary law. They are found both in the tenure and in the conveyance of land. The only customs of which judicial notice is taken are Gavelkind (q.v.) and Borough-English (q.v.). Any other local customs, as in manors, must be proved by evidence. The tenures of frankalmoign and grand serjeanty Avere specially preserved by 12 Car. II. c. 24. Tenure in frankalmoign is the nearest approach in English law to absolute OAvnership. An estate in frankalmoign has no incidents, as it is held simply by divine service and is not subject to escheat. All tenures in frankalmoign must (except where created by the crown) be older than Quia Emptores. The tenure of grand serjeanty is the holding of lands by doing a personal service to the king, as carrying his banner or sword. Petit serjeanty consists in the payment to the king yearly of a bow, sword, dagger, or such other small things belonging to war (Littleton, § 159). It is in effect socage.
Title.—This is the name given to the mode of acquisition of rights over real estate. Title may arise either by alienation, voluntary or involuntary, or by succession. Voluntary alienation is either inter vivos or by will. The former branch is practically synonymous with conveyance, Avhether by way of sale, settlement, mortgage, or otherwise. As a general rule alienation of real estate inter vivos must be by deed since 8 and 9 Viet. c. 106. Since that Act a deed of grant has superseded the old forms of feoffment and lease and release. Considerable alterations in the direction of shortness and simplicity have been made in the laAV of transfer of real estate by the Conveyancing Acts, 1881, 1882 (44 and 45 Viet, c. 41, 45 and 46 Viet. c. 39). The word “grant” is no longer necessary for a conveyance, nor are the old words of limitation “ heirs ” and “ heirs of the body. ” It is sufficient to use the words “in fee-simple,” “in tail,” “in tail male,” “in tail female.” Many provisions usually inserted in deeds, such as covenants for title by a beneficial OAvner and powers of appointment of neAV trustees, obtain statutory sanction. Forms of mortgage, conveyance, and settlement are appended to the Act. The Solicitors’ Remuneration Act, 1881 (44 and 45 Viet. c. 44), was passed as a necessary sequel to the Conveyancing Act, and the remuneration of solicitors uoav stands upon a different and more satisfactory basis. For acquisition by Avili and succession, see Will, Inheritance. Involuntary alienation is by Bankruptcy (q.v.) and by other means of enforcing the rights of creditors over land, such as distress or execution. It may also arise by the exercise by the state of its right of eminent domain for public purposes, as under the Lands Clauses and other Acts.@@3 In sales of real estate title is generally traced in an abstract delivered by the vendor (see Sale).
@@@1    In the category of corporeal hereditaments are also included, certain accessories to corporeal hereditaments proper, such as groAving crops, fixtures, title-deeds, &c.
@@@2    It should be noticed that an easement in gross cannot exist.
@@@2 The right of the state to contribution from land for revenue purposes and
Restraints on Alienation.—The alienation of real estate may be subject to almost any conditions, provided that such conditions do not contravene the law. As a general rule there can be no restrictions upon the alienation of an estate in fee-simple ; the tAvo ideas are incompatible. In the case, hoAvever, of a married Avoman a restraint on anticipation is allowed Avithin certain limits. The poAver of imposing such a restraint is preserved by the Married Women’s Property Act, 1882 (45 and 46 Viet. c. 75, s. 19), subject to the right of the court to bind the interest of the married woman Avhere it would be for her benefit to do so (44 and 45 Viet. c. 41, s. 39). In another direction the imposition of a course of devolution upon property is forbidden by the law against perpetuities, under Avliich no executory interest can be made to commence unless within the period of any fixed number of existing lives, and an additional period of twenty-one years (with a few months added, if necessary, for the period of gestation). Accumulation of income is forbidden (with a feAv exceptions) by the Thelusson Act (39 and 40 Geo. III. c. 98) for any longer term than the life of the grantor or settlor, or twenty-one years from his death, or during a period of minority. Certain persons are by the general policy of the law disabled from exercising full proprietary rights, such as married women (see above), convicts, infants, and lunatics. Estates tail are in general alienable under the Fines and Recoveries Act (see Entail). But in a few cases estates tail are settled inalienably by Act of Parliament, generally as a reAvard for public services. Estates are thus settled to go Avith the titles of Marlborough, Wellington, Abergavenny, and Shrewsbury.
Exceptional Modes of Alienation.—In some of these cases, like those of the exceptional tenures, the influence of the old customary law is to be traced. The transfer of copyholds especially depends to a great extent upon the custom of particular manors, but, subject to that, it usually takes place by surrender and admittance (see Copyhold). Gavelkind lands may be conveyed by feoffment by any infant above the age of fifteen. For mines in the Forest of Dean a peculiar mode of transfer is provided by 1 and 2 Viet. c. 43. In the Isle of Portland there seems to be a distinct survival of the pre-feudal conveyance. The vendor and purchaser meet in the parish church, where a deed is signed by the parties in the presence of two householders of the island. These deeds are called “church gifts.”
Procedure.—In some cases rights attaching to real estate are protected by peculiar remedies. At an early period it became more convenient to try the right to the possession of, rather than the right to the property in, real estate. Possessory tended to supersede proprietary remedies, from their great simplicity and elasticity. The general mode of trying the right to both property and possession Avas from the time of Henry II. the real action, the form called “ Avrit of right ” (after Magna Charta gradually confined to the Court of Common Pleas) being used to determine the property, that called “ assise of novel disseisin ” being the general means by Avhich the possession Avas tried. About the reign of Elizabeth the action of ejectment became the ordinary form of possessory remedy. Real actions existed until 3 and 4 Will. IV. c. 27, by which they were finally abolished, with the exception of Avrit of right of dower, writ of dower unde nihil habet, quare impedit, and ejectment. Of these Quake Impedit (q.v.) appears to be the only one noAv in use. The assise of novel disseisin, the action of ejectment in both its original and its reformed stage (see Ejectment), and finally the action for the recovery of land in use since the Judicature Acts are all historically connected as gradual developments of the possessory action (see Possession). The action for the recovery of land is still subject to special provisions and is not quite in the same position as an ordinary action (see Rules of the Supreme Court, 1883, Ord. xii. rr. 25-29, Ord. xviii. r. 2, &c.). There are certain matters affecting real estate over which the Court of Chancery formerly had exclusive jurisdiction, in most cases because the principles on Avhieli the court acted had been the creation of equity. The Judicature Act, 1873 (36 and 37 Viet. c. 66, s. 34). assigns to the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice all causes and matters for (inter alia) the redemption or foreclosure of mortgages, the raising of portions or other charges on land, the sale and distribution of the proceeds of property subject to any lien or charge, the specific performance of contracts betAveen vendors and purchasers of real estates, including contracts for leases, the partition or sale of real estates, and the wardship of infants and the care of infants’ estates. In the case of rent a summary mode of remedy by act of the creditor still exists (see Distress, Rent).
For the economical aspect of the English law, see Land. For a list of the main points of difference betAA'een real and personal estate, see Personal Estate.
Authorities.—Those cited at the end of Land, and in addition Digby, History of the Law of Real Property ; Elton, Tenures of Kent; Goodeve, Modern Law of Real Property; Pollock, Land Laws; Stephen, Commentaries, vol. i. ; Seebohm, English Village Community, Williams, Real Property, Wolstenholme and Turner,
Conveyancing Acts.
Ireland.— The latv of real estate in Ireland is the English law,
to stamp duties on deeds perhaps falls under this head. These imposts are really involuntary alienations of part of the profit of the land.
which finally superseded the native law in James I.’s reign, as modified by subsequent legislation. The main difference is in the law of Landlord and Tenant (q.v.) and the operation of the Landed Estates Court, merged in the High Court of Justice in Ireland by the Supreme Court of Judicature (Ireland) Act, 1877.
United States.—The law of real estate in the United States is the law of England modified to suit a different state of circumstances. The main point of difference is that in the United States the occupiers of land are generally wholly or in part owners, not tenants, as iu England. This is to a great extent the effect of the homestead laws (see Homestead). The traces of the feudal origin of the law are, as might be expected, considerably less prominent than in England. Thus estates tail are practically obsolete ; in some States they are specially forbidden by the State constitutions. The law of descent is the same in real and personal estate (see Inheritance). Manors do not exist, except in the State of New York, where they were created by the crown in colonial days (Bouvier, Law Diet., “Manor”). Registration of deeds is general (see Registration). In some States forms of deed are prescribed by statute. Conveyancing is for the most part simpler than in England. The holding of real estate by religious or charitable corporations is generally restricted by the Act creating them rather than by anything like the English law of mortmain. In Pennsylvania such a corporation cannot hold land without an Act of the legislature, and in Territories of the United States it cannot hold real estate of a greater value than $50,000 (Act of Congress of 1st July 1862, c. 126). Perpetuities are forbidden in most States. The right of eminent domain is at once acknowledged and limited by the constitution of the United States. By art. 5 of the Amendments private property is not to be taken for public use without just compensation. A similar provision is found in many of the State constitutions. By an Act of Congress of 9th April 1866, c. 31, all citizens of the United States have the same right in every State and Territory as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property. In most States aliens may hold land ; but in some States they cannot do so without becoming naturalized or at least filing in the specified manner a declaration of intention to become naturalized. For the State laws affecting the capacity of aliens to hold land, see Washburn, Real Property, vol. i. p. 64.
International Law.—The law of the place where real estate is situated (lex loci rei sitæ) governs its tenure aud transfer. The laws of England and of the United States are more strict on this point than the laws of most other countries. They require that the formalities of the locus rei sitæ must be observed, even if not necessary to be observed in the place where the contract was made. The lex loci rei sitæ determines what is to be considered real estate. A foreign court cannot as a general rule pass title to land situated in another country. The English and United States courts of equity have to a certain extent avoided the inconvenience which this inability to deal with laud out of the jurisdiction sometimes causes by the use of the theory that equity acts upon the conscience of the party and not upon the title to the foreign land. Thus in the leading case of Penn v. Lord Baltimore in 1750 (1 Yesey’s Reports, 444) the Court of Chancery on this ground decreed specific performance of articles for settling the boundaries of the provinces of Pennsylvania and Maryland. The difficulty always arises that, although the court professes to act upon the conscience, it must indirectly act upon the property, and that it cannot carry its decision into execution without the aid of the local tribunals. (J. W+. )
REALISM. See Scholasticism.
RÉAUMUR, René Antoine Ferchault de (1683-1757), tlie eldest son of a French nobleman, was born on 28th February 1683 at La Rochelle and received his early education there. He ·was taught philosophy in the Jesuits’ college at Poitiers, and in 1699, when “hardly seventeen, but already possessed of the prudence of a grown man,” went to Bourges to study civil law and mathematics under the charge of an uncle, canon of La Sainte Chapelle. In 1703 he came to Paris, where he continued the study of mathematics and physics. He soon made his presence felt in the highest circles, and in 1708, at the remarkably early age of twenty-four, was elected a member of the Académie des Sciences. From this time onwards for nearly half a century hardly a year passed in which the Mémoires de VAcadémie did not contain at least one paper by Reaumur. At first his attention was occupied by mathematical studies, especially in geometry. In 1710 he was appointed to the charge of a great Government Avork—the official description of the useful arts and manufactures—which led him to many practical researches that resulted in the establish
ment of manufactures new to France and the revival of neglected industries. For discoveries regarding iron and steel the regent Orleans awarded him a pension of 12,000 livres ; but, being content with his ample private income, he requested that the money should be secured to the Académie des Sciences for the furtherance of experiments on improved industrial processes. In 1731 he became greatly interested in meteorology, and invented the thermometer which bears his name. In 1735 family arrangements obliged him to accept the post of commander and intendant of the royal and military order of Saint Louis ; he discharged his duties in connexion with it with scrupulous attention, but declined to receive any of the emoluments. Whatever his other occupations Avere, he ahvays found time for the systematic study of natural history, in which he took great delight. He Avas a born naturalist, gifted with rare poAvers of observation and description,—indeed his friends often called him the Pliny of the 18th century. He loved retirement and lived much at his country residences, at one of Avhich, La Bermondière (Maine), he met with an accident, a fall from horseback, the effects of which proved fatal on 17th October 1757. He bequeathed his manuscripts, which filled 138 portfolios, and his natural history collections to the Académie des Sciences.
Reaumur Avas a man of wide attainments and great industry. His writings, sometimes on trivial topics, were frequently diffuse, yet always interesting. His mind was original and intensely practical. As a rule he avoided theoretical questions, but Avhen he took them up his manner of treatment Avas remarkably clear, chiefly on account of an ingenious use of metaphor, often expanding into allegory. His memory Avas retentive, his information immense, and his kindliness of disposition such that his knowledge and wealth seemed to be amassed only for the benefit of his friends. He always bore a high character, was a great favourite in society, and associated on terms of intimacy Avith the principal great men of the time in Europe.
Reaumur’s scientific papers are too numerous to be recapitulated ; they deal with nearly all branches of science. His first paper, in 1708, was on a general problem in geometry, his last, in 1756, on the forms of birds’ nests. He proved experimentally the fact, afterwards demonstrated theoretically by Du Hamel, that the strength of a rope is less than the sum of the strengths of its separate strands. He examined and reported on the auriferous rivers, the turquoise mines, the forests, and the fossil beds of France. He devised the method of tinning iron that is still employed, and investigated the differences betAveen iron and steel, correctly slioAA'ing that the amount of combustible matter (sulphur in the language of the old chemistry) is greatest in cast iron, less in steel, and least in Avrought iron. His book on this subject (1722) Avas translated into English and German. The thermometer by Avhich he is noAv best remembered Avas constructed on the principle of taking the freezing-point of water as 0°, and graduating the tube into degrees each of which Avas one-thousandth of the volume contained by the bulb and tube up to the zero mark. It Avas purely an accident dependent on the dilatability of the particular quality of alcohol employed which made the boiling-point of Avater 80° ; and mercurial thermometers the stems of which are graduated into eighty equal parts between the freezing and boiling points of water are not Reaumur thermometers in anything but name.
Reaumur Avrote much on natural history. Early in life ho described the locomotor system of the Echinodermata, and shoAved that the supposed vulgar error of Crustaceans replacing their lost limbs Avas an actual fact. In 1710 he Avrote a paper on the possibility of spiders being used to produce silk, which Avas so celebrated at the time that the Chinese emperor Kang-he caused a translation of it to be made. He treated also of botanical and agricultural matters, and devised processes for preserving birds and eggs. He elaborated a system of artificial incubation, and made important observations on the digestion of carnivorous and graminivorous birds ; but his greatest work is the Mémoires pour servir à l’Histoire des Insectes, 6 vols., with 267 plates, Amsterdam, 1734-49. It describes the appearance, habits, and locality of all the knoAvn insects except the beetles, and is a marvel of patient and accurate observation. Amongst other important facts stated in this work are the experiments which enabled Reaumur to prove the correctness of Peyssonel’s hypothesis, that corals were animals and not plants, as AA׳as previously supposed.
REBUS, an enigmatical representation of some name or thing, by using figures or pictures instead of words or
parts of words. Camden mentions an instance of this kind of wit in a gallant who expressed his love to a woman named Rose Hill by painting in the border of his gown a rose, a hill, an eye, a loaf, and a well ; this, in the style of the rebus, reads “Rose Hill I love well.” This kind of wit was long practised by the great, who took the pains to find devices for their names. It was, however, happily ridiculed by Ben Jonson in the humorous description of Abel Drugger’s device in the Alchemist and by the Spectator in the device of Jack of Newberry. The name is also applied to arrangements of words in which the position of the several vocables is to be taken into account in divining the meaning. Thus “ I understand you undertake to overthrow my undertaking ” makes the rebus
stand    take to    taking
I    you throw    my ;
or in French
pir    vent    venir
un    vient    d’un
may be read “un soupir vient souvent d’un souvenir.” The original use of the word, which’ comes to us from France, was, however, wider : any equivoque or satirical pleasantry might be so named, and the origin of the term is ascribed by Ménage to the clerks of Picardy, who at carnival time used to put out satirical squibs called “ De rebus quæ geruntur.” “Rebus,” in heraldry, is a coat of arms which bears an allusion to the name of the person,— as three castles for Castleton, three cups for Butler, three conies for Coningsby.
RÉCAMIER, Madame (whose maiden name was Jeanne Françoise Julie Adelaide Bernard), was born on 4th December 1777 at Lyons, and died at Paris on 11th May 1849. She was married at fifteen to the banker Récamier, who was more than old enough to be her father. Beautiful, accomplished, with a real love for literature, she possessed at the same time a temperament which protected her from scandal, and from the early days of the consulate to almost the end of the July monarchy her salon was one of the chief resorts of literary and political society that pretended to fashion. For some time she was much under the influence of Madame de Staël, and it was partly through her that Madame Récamier became acquainted with Benjamin Constant, whose singular political tergiversations during the last days of the empire and the first of the restoration have been attributed to Madame Récamier. There is no doubt that she succeeded in inspiring a real and almost desperate passion in the heart of Constant, whose letters to her have had a singular fate, having been twice published in part, and twice interfered with by judicial proceedings on the part of the representatives of the parties concerned. In Madame Récamier’s later days she lost most of the fortune which, when she was the wife of a rich banker, had given her part of her consequence ; but she continued to receive visitors at the Abbaye-aux-Bois. Here Chateaubriand was a constant visitor, and in a manner master of the house ; but Madame Récamier never even in old age, ill-health, and reduced circumstances lost her attraction. After her death Souvenirs et Correspondances tirés des Papiers de Madame Récamier were published. To compile, however, a real account of her would necessitate the ransack of all the memoirs, correspondence, and anecdotage concerning French political and literary life for the first half of this century.
RECAN ATI, a city of Italy, in the province of Macerata, 17| miles from Loreto, on the highway between Ancona and Rome, is built on a hill 910 feet above the sea, and still retains portions of its 15th-century walls and gateways. It is now perhaps best known as the birthplace of the poet Leopardi, whose monument adorns the principal piazza and whose family has collected in the town a very interesting
museum of Leopardiana; but it also contains fine old mansions of the Leopardi, Mazzagalli, Massucci, and Car-radori in the main street, a palazzo coinmunale with a bronze representation of the removal of the Holy House to Loreto, and a Gothic cathedral, built towards the close of the 14tli century and dedicated to St Flavianus, patriarch of Constantinople. The population in 1881 was 8864 in the town and port (3040) and 19,524 in the commune.
Recanati appears as a strong castle in the 10th century or earlier. Round this gathered a community whose petty wars with Osimo (Auximum) called for the interference of Innocent III. in 1198. From Frederick II. it obtained the right of having a port on the Adriatic; and by Gregory IX. it was made a city and the seat of the bishopric transferred from Osimo. This oscillation between Guelf and Gbibelline continued characteristic of Recanati. Urban IY. abolished the “city” and bishopric; Nicholas IV. restored them. John XXII. again, in 1320, removed the bishopric and placed the city under interdict. The interdict was withdrawn in 1328 on payment of a heavy fine, but the bishopric remained in abeyance till 1357. Gregory XII., who on his deposition by the council of Constance was made papal legate of the sees of Macerata and Recanati, died in this city in 1417. The assistance rendered by Recanati to the popes in their straggles with the Sforza seems to have exhausted its resources, and it began to decline. Considerable damage was done by the earthquake of 1741 ; and the French, who were twice in possession of the city in 1797, pillaged it in 1799.
RECHABITES, or Sons of Rechab, in ancient Israel formed a sort of religious order in some respects analogous to the Nazarites, with whom they shared the rule of abstinence from wine. They went farther than the latter, however, in eschewing the luxuries and pursuits of settled life, living in tents and refusing to sow grain as well as to plant vineyards. Their origin must have been in northern Israel, for their “ father ” or founder, to whom they referred their rule of life, was that Jehonadab or Jonadab, son of Rechab, who lent his countenance to Jehu in the abolition of Tyrian Baal-worship (2 Kings x.). The order founded by Jehonadab must from its constitution have soon become a sort of hereditary clan, and as such the “house of Rechab” appears in Jer. xxxv., from which we learn that they had survived in Judah after the fall of the northern kingdom and continued to observe the ordinance of Jehonadab till the approach of Nebuchadnezzar drove them for protection into Jerusalem. Jeremiah promised them as a reward of their obedience that they should never lack a man to represent them (as a priest) before Jehovah. This perhaps is the origin of the later Jewish tradition that the Rechabites intermarried with the Levites and so entered the temple service.@@1 Hegesippus in his account of the death of James the Just even speaks of Rechabite priests and makes one of them protest against the crime (Eus., II.fi., ii. 23).
RECIFE. See Pernambuco.
RECOGNIZANCE, in law,, is, in the words of Black-stone, “ an obligation of record, entered into before some court or magistrate duly authorized, whereby the party bound acknowledges that he owes to the king or a private plaintiff (as the case may be) a certain sum of money, with condition to be void if he shall do some particular act,— as if he shall appear at the assizes, keep the peace, pay a certain debt, or the like.” The term itself means that the person bound recognizes the existence of a debt. Recognizance was at one time used as a security for money lent, something in the nature of a mortgage. In this sense it is practically obsolete, though it is alluded to in modern Acts of Parliament, e.g., 27 and 28 Yict. c. 112, by which a recognizance entered into after 29th July 1864 does not bind the land until actual delivery in execution. The principal use of recognizances at the present day is in chancery and criminal procedure. In chancery recognizances are entered into as a form of security by certain
@@@1 From the obscure passage 1 Chron. ii. 55 it would seem that in later times the Rechabites were regarded as Kenites.
persons appointed to positions of trust, such as guardians or receivers. In criminal practice they affect either suspected or accused persons, or witnesses. As early as 1360 the Act of 31 Edw. III. c. 1 empowered justices to take of all them that were not of good fame sufficient surety and mainprize of their good behaviour. The wide terms of this provision are not acted upon at the present day. The only recognizances of this kind practically enforced are those entered into as security for keeping the peace. Such recognizances are forfeited by any act tending to a breach of the peace. The Criminal Law Consolidation Acts of 1861 provide that any court may on the conviction of a person for an offence under any of the Acts require him in addition to or in lieu of other punishment to enter into his own recognizances for keeping the peace and being of good behaviour. The power to bind witnesses by recognizance was originally conferred by an Act of 1554, 1 Ph. and M. c. 13. Recognizances are now the usual means by which a court of summary jurisdiction or a coroner binds over a prosecutor and his witnesses or an accused person and his witnesses to appear at the trial. The procedure principally depends upon 7 Geo. IY. c. 64, 11 and 12 Viet. c. 42 (one of Jervis’s Acts), 30 and 31 Yict. c. 35 (Russell Gurney’s Act), 42 and 43 Yict. c. 49, s. 31 (the Summary Jurisdiction Act, 1879). In proceedings in error and in appeals from courts of summary jurisdiction to quarter sessions the prosecution of the appeal by the appellant is secured by recognizance. In certain cases police authorities have by recent statutes a limited authority to take the recognizance of accused persons. Failure to comply with the conditions of recognizances leads to their forfeiture. Additional facilities for the enforcing of recognizances were given by the Summary Jurisdiction Act, 1879 (see Quarter Sessions). When recognizances are forfeited they are estreated (i.e., extracted) from the records of the court to be enforced against the defaulter. An appeal against an order of a court of summary jurisdiction forfeiting recognizances lies to quarter sessions (3 Geo. IY. c. 46). By 28 and 29 Yict. c. 104 a recognizance does not bind the land in the hands of a hona fide purchaser for valuable consideration or a mortgagee unless actual execution has issued and been registered in the name of the debtor at the central office of the Supreme Court of Judicature. Registered recognizances are among the encumbrances for which search is made on a purchase of land. By 45 and 46 Viet. c. 39 an official negative of the existence of registered recognizances may be given by the proper officer on application. A discharge in bankruptcy does not release the debtor from a debt on a recognizance unless the Treasury certify in writing their consent to his discharge (46 and 47 Yict. c. 52, s. 30). Forgery of recognizances is a felony punishable by five years’ penal servitude (24 and 25 Yict. c. 98, s. 32).
In Scotland the place of recognizances is filled by cautions; a caution in law-burrows corresponds very nearly to a recognizance to keep the peace.
In the United States recognizances are used for much the same purposes as in England.
RECORDE, Robert (c. 1500-1558), a physician and eminent mathematician, was descended from a respectable family at Tenby in Wales and was born about 1500. He was entered of the university of Oxford about 1525, and was elected fellow of All Souls College in 1531. As he made physic his profession, he went to Cambridge, where he took the degree of M.D. in 1545. He afterwards returned to Oxford, where he publicly taught arithmetic and mathematics, as he had done prior to his going to Cambridge. It appears that he afterwards went to London, and acted as physician to Edward VI. and to Queen Mary, to whom some of his books are dedicated. He died in the
King’s Bench prison, Southwark, where he was confined for debt, in 1558.
Recorde published several works upon mathematical subjects, chiefly in the form of dialogue between master and scholar, viz. :— The Groundc of Artes, teachinge the Works and Practise of Arith-meticke, both in whole numbers and fractions, 1540, 8vo ; The Pathway to Knowledge, containing the First Principles of Geometry . . . bathe for the use of Instrumentes Geometricall and Astronomicall, and also for Projection of Plattcs, London, 1551, 4to ; The Castle of Knowledge, containing the Explication of the Sphere both Celcstiall and Material!, kc., London, 1556, folio ; The Whetstone of Witte, which is the second part of Arithmetike, containing the Extraction of Rootes, the Cossike Practice, with the Pules of Equation, and the Woorkes of Surdc Numbers, London, 1557, 4to. This was the first English book on algebra. He wrote also a medical work, The Urinal of Physic, 1548, frequently reprinted. Sherburne states that Rccorde also published Cosmographise Isagogc, and that he wrote a book Dc Arte facicndi Horologmm and another De Usu Globorum ct de Statu Temponim. Recorde’s chief contributions to the progress of algebra were in the way of systematizing its notation. He is said to have been the first to use the sign of equality (=) having the two parallel lines, as he says himself, because no two things could be more equal. The adaptation of the rule for extracting the square root of an integral number to the extraction of the square root of an integral algebraical function is also said to be due to him.
RECORDER. See Court and Quarter Sessions.
RECORDS, Public. According to the definition of the Record Commissioners appointed at the commencement of this century to report upon the nature of the archives, the national muniments of England constitute four great classes. The first class consists of independent documents relating to various subjects, persons, and places, but making altogether one whole, such as, for instance, Domesday Book, or the Valor Ecclesiasticus of Henry VIII. The second class consists of the series of enrolments, including within one roll great varieties of distinct and separate entries classed according to their formal character, as, for instance, the close rolls and patent rolls, or classed according to their subject-matter, as are the Liberate and the Norman rolls. The third class embraces those records which contain entries of judicial proceedings and those where each subject has a distinct roll; whilst the last class comprises all separate documents, such as letters, inquisitions, privy seals, commissions, and other various descriptions of formal instruments. Sir Edward Coke has given in his signification of the term “ record ” a briefer and less involved definition ; but according to his rendering many important documents would have to be excluded from the list of the national archives. Hence it was decreed, on the passing of the Public Records Act (1 and 2 Viet. c. 94), which created the master of the rolls the keeper of the archives, that the word “records” should be taken to mean “all rolls, records, writs, books, proceedings, decrees, bills, warrants, accounts, papers, and documents whatsoever, of a public nature belonging to Her Majesty.”
The documents of the once styled Courts of Chancery, Queen’s Bench, Exchequer, and Common Pleas contain the very essence of England’s antiquarian wealth : they constitute most of its bulk, much of its legal importance, and nearly all its historical interest. “ The custom of recording documents on rolls of parchment,” writes Sir Thomas Hardy, the late deputy-keeper of the public records, “ though of very ancient date, commenced nevertheless at a period subsequent to the Conquest; for no vestige can be traced of such a system during the Anglo-Saxon dynasty.
‘ Apud Anglo-Saxones/ says Hickes, ‘ etiam mos erat leges regum latas in codicibus monasteriorum tanquam in tabulas publicas referendi.’ It may be assumed that, had such a })Ian been then in operation, the same would have been adopted by the Conqueror to perpetuate the survey of the kingdom which he caused to be made, and for the preservation of which he evinced so much zeal and anxiety.” As to the precise time when the use of rolls for the entry of
matters of business first began there is still considerable doubt. That no rolls of a date antecedent to that of the 31st Henry I. are now in existence is certain. It may therefore be presumed that the practice of enrolling commenced shortly after the Conquest.
Court of Chancery.— Owing to the vast quantity of documents of this court, only the salient points of the principal series of rolls can be dealt with. Among the most important enrolments belonging to this court is the extensive series of documents known as the close rolls or Rotuli Litterarum Clausarum. Upon their well-preserved parchment membranes the historian scans entries relating —to the privileges of peers and commoners in times gone by; to measures employed for the raising of armies and the equipment of fleets; to orders for the observance of treaties, and for the fortification of castles; and to laws innumerable touching the power of the bench, the authority of the church, the extent of the civil jurisdiction, and the prerogatives of the crown. By the help of these rolls the lawyer and antiquary can learn how the coinage of the realm was regulated, how aids and imposts, toll-ages and subsidies, were raised, how riots and tumults were suppressed, how state prisoners were pardoned, how the writs ran for the summoning of parliaments, what deeds w׳ere enrolled between party and party, what facts were deemed worthy of record upon the birth, marriage, and death of royal and noble families; in short, there is little that concerns the naval and military, the civil and ecclesiastical, the legal and diplomatic affairs of the kingdom, which is not to be found upon the yards and yards of parchment which constitute the collection of the close rolls. The origin of the name “ close ” is due to the fact that the documents composing the series, being of a private nature, were despatched closed or sealed up, and were addressed to one or two persons only. The close rolls begin with the reign of John and continue without interruption to the present time. Since the days of Henry VIII. the entries on these rolls are mostly confined to the enrolments of deeds of bargain and sale, wills of papists, recognizances, specifications of new׳ inventions, and other instruments enrolled for safe custody by warrant from the lord chancellor or master of the rolls. Next in importance, and scarcely second in historical interest, is the series of muniments, dating also from King John to the !?resent day, called the patent rolls. Not a subject connected with the history and government of the country but receives illustration from this magnificent collection. Is a castle besieged by the king, a papal interdict removed by royal supplication, a safe-conduct granted to an unpopular prelate, credence allowed to some court witness, grace shown to a rebellious subject, church lands bestow׳ed on begging clergy, negotiations entered into with foreign princes, powers of ambassadors regulated, lands, offices, and wardships granted to public bodies or private persons, titles of nobility created, charters confirmed, proclamations drawn up, licences to hold, sell, and marry, commands to do fealty and homage,—all, whether relating to political, social, ecclesiastical, or commercial life, are to be found recorded on the membranes of the “litterae patentes.” With the exception of a few gaps in the reigns of John and Henry III. the letters-patent extend without break or flaw from the year 1200 to our own day. Unlike the close rolls, they are unsealed and exposed to view, hence their name. The third great class of records belonging to the Court of Chancery consists of the “ parliament rolls ”; these, however, are far from being a perfect collection, as many of the documents containing the proceedings of various parliaments are hopelessly lost. The series begins with the 6th Edw׳ard I. and extends, though v׳itli frequent breaks, to Henry YIII. As the journals of the
House of Lords do not commence till the reign of Henry VIII., it is only from the parliament rolls that proof can be obtained of a peer having sat in parliament previous to that period ; such proof is always requisite in claims to an ancient barony by writ. When complete these rolls contain entries of the various transactions which took place from the opening to the close of each parliament. Unfortunately many of the lost rolls belong to those parliaments which are of the greatest importance for the history of the constitution. The enrolments of Acts of Parliament, however, are of considerable help in the investigation of English parliamentary history and constitute a most important supplement to the parliament rolls. They begin with Richard III. and continue to 1849, when enrolments ceased and Acts printed on vellum were substituted. Space forbids us to enter into details respecting the other important collections belonging to the Chancery records. We only allude briefly to the charter rolls, which consist of grants of privileges to religious houses and bodies corporate, and which extend from John to Henry VIII., in which reign grants from the crown were entered on the patent rolls; the coronation rolls, which contain the commissions and proceedings of the commissioners appointed to hear and determine claims of service to be performed at coronations, as well as the oaths taken by the king or queen when crowned,—this collection, with the exception of the coronation rolls of Charles I. and George III., which are wanting, is perfect from James I. to Victoria; the fine rolls, consisting of accounts of fines paid to the king for licences to alienate lands, for freedom from knight service, for pardons, wardships, and the like, which also begin with John and go down to Charles I.; the French and Norman rolls, which relate to transactions in France whilst the English held part of that country; the oblata rolls, consisting of accounts of the offerings and free gifts to the sovereign from his subjects; and the valuable inquisitions post-mortem, frequently but erroneously referred to as escheat rolls, taken on the death of every tenant of the crown. Then in addition to these there are tire hundred rolls, the decree rolls, the royal letters, the carta? antiquae, the privy seals and signet bills, the subsidy rolls, the Irish, Scotch, and Welsh rolls, the Almain rolls, and numerous other classes of document which it is impossible to catalogue or describe within the limits of a general review of the English archives. Suffice it to say that every class of records is carefully arranged for public inspection and that full and clear indices render research a matter of little difficulty.
Court of Queeris Bench.—As this court takes cognizance of both civil and criminal causes, the former on the crown side and the latter on the plea side of the court, the records are arranged in the two sections, crown side and plea side. Of these records the most important are the judgment or plea rolls. From the time of Richard I. to the year 1702 they were united with the crown rolls, but at that date they were separated. The plea rolls contain the general proceedings in causes, but the modern rolls are very defective owing to the neglect of attorneys in bringing the records in. The crowm rolls are composed of indictments, informations, and other similar proceedings to which parties have pleaded. Another division of the judgment rolls contains the controlment rolls, which comprise minutes of all the principal proceedings in crown causes, with numerical references to the judgment rolls, where the proceedings are entered at length. Apart from the plea rolls the remaining records of this court are of little general interest. Among their number we may notice the attorney’s oath roll, containing the oaths required to be subscribed by attorneys on their admission, the “baga de secretis,” containing proceedings on attainders
(of great interest to the historian), the contents of which have been admirably reported upon by Sir Francis Palgrave, the enrolment of bails, proceedings in outlawry, the jail delivery rolls, and a mass of indictments, recognizances, and other similar documents. The prayer book known as the sealed copy of the “Book of Common Prayer” pursuant to statute 14 Charles II. is also among the records of the Court of Queen’s Bench.
Court of Common Pleas.—This court contains a far richer collection than the Court of Queen’s Bench, and from the nature of its jurisdiction the documents possess great interest for the genealogist and topographer. Foremost among them is the valuable collection of “feet of fines or final concords,” which date from Henry II. to the year 1834, when fines and recoveries were abolished and “ more simple modes of assurance substituted.” “ The utility of these records,” says the Report of the House of Commons’ committee on the state of the public records, “ to all persons desirous of tracing property and pedigree is unquestionable.” Fines contain the proceedings which have been adopted to convey estates and to free them from their entail to issue and from the dower of wives. Thus we are able to learn the name of the freeholder levying the fine, and if he was married the name of his wife and often of his children, the position and value of his estate, and not unfrequently something about his ancestors. Yet perhaps the chief value of this class of records is that they prove marriages and their issue at a time when parochial registers were not in existence. Few documents show so unbroken a succession from so early a date as these “ pedes finium.” The king’s Silver Office books are the chief indexes to the fines, but they suffered greatly from the fire at the king’s Silver Office in the Temple in March 1838. The recovery rolls (since 1834 continued under the name of “ disentailing assurances ” on the close rolls) also constitute another important supplement to the study of the pedes finium. Next to the collection of fines may be classed the judgment rolls of this court, or, as they are more commonly designated, the “ de banco ” rolls. They formerly consisted of two parts, the “ communia placita ” or personal plea rolls, and the “placita terras” or pleas of lands and deeds enrolled; but after the reign of Elizabeth the latter became distinct rolls, containing the king’s silver and fines, assizes, deeds enrolled, and all real actions. The judgment rolls pass through three stages—first, they are plea rolls; then, when the parties join issue, issue rolls; and lastly, when judgments are entered upon them, judgment rolls. The recording of the judgments has, however, been very much neglected, for many of the judgments, instead of being entered on the plea or issue rolls, have been entered on separate pieces of parchment, and thus have given rise to certain distinct bundles called “ riders,” in which such entries are contained.
Court of Exchequer.—This collection contains next to that of the Court of Chancery the most interesting and valuable series of documents among the English public records. The most important and most prominent series is that of the great rolls of the Exchequer, otherwise called the pipe rolls.@@1 As with the close and patent rolls, so with the rolls of the pipe, it is difficult to state what is and what is not entered upon their membranes. Everything which in former times went to swell the revenues of the crown— rents of various kinds, fines, amercements, profits of lands and tenements, and the like—is to be found enrolled upon them. The accounts of the ancient revenue of the crown, digested under the heads of the several counties and annually written out in order to the charging and discharging of the sheriffs and other accountants, are also to be seen upon their membranes. If a great man was outlawed, his goods seized, his daughter married or made a ward, the account thereof can be read in the pipe rolls. To the pedigree-hunter these records are particularly useful, since they contain the names of most men of property; while to the county historian they are invaluable. Few of the English national archives boast a more uninterrupted suepession than the great rolls of the Exchequer. Beginning in the second year of Henry II., they continue to the present time with but two gaps—the rolls of the first year of Henry III. and of the seventh year of Henry IV. Of the latter of these missing rolls the antigraph or roll made by the chancellor’s scribe is still in existence and supplies the place of the lost roll. At the beginning of this series there is a roll which w׳as long looked upon as that of the first year of Henry II., or by some antiquaries as belonging to the fifth year of Stephen; but recent criticism seems to establish thp fact that it is a roll of the 31st year of Henry I.,—the earliest national document, save Domesday, of any extent that now exists. Another important class of documents belonging to the Court of Exchequer and stored with a variety of information upon secular and religious matters is the memoranda rolls, which extend from Henry III. to the middle of the present century. These rolls contain enrolments of all the ■weighty business done in the offices of the queen’s and lord treasurer’s remembrancer. Upon their membranes the inquirer will read how writs ran for the recovery of debts due to the crown, how commissions were appointed to seize estates attainted or forfeited to the crown, how goods were seized in the various ports of England for the nonpayment of customs, how the accounts of sheriffs and escheators were settled with the Exchequer, how cities and boroughs made claim to special privileges, and how the numerous proceedings in equity on English informations and bills were conducted. The “ brevia regia ” endorsed on the memoranda rolls are the most ancient writs of that description in the kingdom; in the earlier periods they assume the shape of letters and contain various wishes of the sovereigns. To the antiquary and historian the collection of archives called “originalia rolls,” which extend from Henry III. to William IV., is of great service. They not only throw considerable light upon the manners and customs in vogue in the 13th and 14tli centuries, but also record the descent of lands, questions relating to crown revenues and feudal tenures, the appointment of various commissions for different purposes of investigation, and other similar entries. The importance of the originalia rolls is also increased from the fact that they contain numerous extracts from early rolls now no longer in existence.
@@@1 la 1883 was founded the Pipe Roll Society, which has for its object the printing of the entire series of pipe rolls from the reign of Henry II.
Among the documents of the ancient Exchequer there is much to interest the purely ecclesiastical historian in the collection of ministers’ accounts of the issues and profits of monastic lands in the hands of the crowm; in the pensions granted to abbots and others upon the dissolution of the monasteries, now enrolled among the records of the Augmentation Office ; in the accounts of monasteries contained in the chartularies, the account books of first-fruits and tenths; in the taxation rolls which regulated the taxes as ■well to the kings as to the popes until the survey of Henry VIII.; in the Valor Ecclesiasticus of Henry VIII., which contains surveys of archbishoprics, bishoprics, abbeys, monasteries, and the like throughout the kingdom; in the visitations of religious houses; and in the Wolsey books. To the antiquary pure and simple the collection in the Exchequer which records the history of knights’ service is perhaps the most interesting. The number of knights’ fees throughout the kingdom was 60,215, of which the clergy had 28,015 ; but, as in process
of time it became a doubtful question whether lands were held by knight’s service or by some other tenure, inquisitions were held and each baron had to return to the king an account of what he held. Such accounts comprise the early history of landed property, with the names of the owners and the extent of the estates. For information on this subject the three great authorities are the Black and Red Books of the Exchequer, the scutage rolls, and the subsidy rolls; the Liber Niger Scaccarii, or Liber Niger Parvus as it is sometimes called, compiled by Gervase of Tilbury, nephew to Henry II., in the twenty-second year of that king’s reign, is the most ancient of these. It contains a list of knights’ fees of the time of Henry II., and in many of the returns there appear family names and particulars of the parents, children, wives, and occupiers of the land as well as of tenants in capite. In this book there are also various treaties of the same king, four bulls of Pope Alexander III., and the constitution of the royal household during the reign of Henry II. The Red Book is somewhat similar to the Liber Niger, and contains among other entries the oaths of the different officers of the Court of Exchequer; the Dialogus de Scaccario (formerly ascribed to Gervase of Tilbury, but clearly proved by Madox to have been written by Richard FitzNigel, at one time treasurer of the Exchequer, who held the see of London from 1189 to 1198); numerous short memoranda, &c., for the instruction and use of the officials; and collections of knights’ fees and serjeanties of the reigns of Henry II., Richard I., John, and Henry III. Many of its entries are also in the Black Book. The scutage rolls, which begin in the reign of Edward I., contain the pecuniary satisfaction paid by each knight in lieu of the personal attendance upon his sovereign that was required of him. This satisfaction was called “scutagium” or “servitium scuti” (service of the shield), and in Norman-French “escuage,” from ecu, a shield. The assessment was, however, so arbitrary that it was decreed by Magna Charta that no scutage should be imposed without consent of parliament. The subsidy rolls record the fifteenths and tenths, <fcc., granted by parliament to the crown. In addition to the above are the marshals’ rolls, which contain an account of the military service due from great tenants to the king on the eve of a war, the “ testa de Nevil,” and the solitary roll called the constable’s roll. Among the more important documents belonging to the ancient Exchequer collection, concerning which space forbids us to particularize, are the records of the Augmentation Court, full of valuable matter to the church historian, the court rolls of manors possessed by the crown, the voluminous series of bills and answers, the collection of special commissions, the golden bull of Clement VII. conferring the title of “ Defender of the Faith ” upon Henry VIII., hearth-money accounts, the Jews’ rolls, the vast collection of crown leases, the recusant rolls, and the very curious wardrobe accounts.
Obsolete Courts.—In addition to the various records which have been alluded to belonging to the Courts of Chancery, Queen’s Bench, Common Pleas, and Exchequer, there is a large class of documents which appertain to obsolete courts, and many of wdiich are of great historical value. The most important of this class are the archives belonging to the Star Chamber, the Court of Chivalry, the Court of Requests, the Court of Wards and Liveries, and the Marshals Court. The muniments of the duchy of Lancaster and also those of the abolished courts of the palatinate of Durham are now among the archives of the Record Office. An account of Domesday Book has already been given (see Domesday Book). The amalgamation of the State Paper Office in 1854 with the Record Office has been the means of rendering the series of the English national archives an almost complete collection.
With the exception of certain manuscripts in the British Museum and in a few public libraries, most of the public muniments of the realm are now placed in one repository and under the supervision of the master of the rolls.
Upon the subject of the public records Sir Francis Palgrave, under whose auspices as deputy keeper the public muniments were brought together under one roof, writes as follows :—
“Whether we consider them in relation to antiquity, to continuity, to variety, to extent, or to amplitude of facts and details they have no equals in the civilized world. For the archives of France, the most perfect and complete in Continental Europe, do not ascend higher than the reign of St Louis, and compared with ours are stinted and jejune ; whereas in England, taking up our title (so to speak) from Domesday, the documents placed under the custody of the master of the rolls contain the whole of the materials for the history of this country in every branch and under every aspect, civil, religious, political, social, moral, or material from the Norman Conquest to the present day.”
History.—In consequence of the neglect and indifference from which the national archives suffered before being housed in their present quarters, it is as much a matter for wonder as for congratulation that any of them are still in existence. In the earlier periods the records of the courts were preserved in the palace of the king ; but, when the law courts became stationary and were held within the precincts of the royal palace, instead of following the sovereign from place to place, all legal documents remained in the custody of their respective courts. On the business of the country increasing, the records began to assume such vast proportions that further accommodation had to be obtained. Gradually three warehouses for the custody of public documents came into existence. The records of the King’s Bench and Common Pleas were removed to the palace at Westminster, to the old chapter-house, and to the cloister of the abbey of Westminster, and thus laid the foundation of the well-known “ chapter-house repository.” Towards the end of the reign of Richard I., the Court of Chancery becoming separated from that of the Exchequer, the wardrobe in the Tower of London was used as the chief place of deposit for all Chancery documents, and thus the Record Office in the Tower sprang up. It had been the custom of the earlier masters of the rolls to keep the records of their courts in their private houses ; but after the reign of Edward IV. these documents were lodged in what is now styled the “chapel of the rolls,” but which was then known as the “domus conversorum Judseorum,” or the house for converted Jews and infidels, which had been annexed to the office of the master of the rolls in the reign of Edward III. ; an office was subsequently attached to the chapel, and thus arose the record depository known as the “rolls chapel office.” For many years these three places of deposit—the chapter-house, the Tower, and the rolls chapel office—constituted the chief repositories for public records ; but, as the accommodation that these buildings offered was limited, rooms in private houses, vacant vaults, and even stables had to be taken by the ministers of the day for the storing of the ever-increasing archives. Little care was, however, paid to the preservation of the parchments. They were put into houses and forgotten ; their various removals were most carelessly superintended ; and they were often left a prey to the pilfer-ings of the curious. Now and again a sovereign or a secretary of state turned his attention to the disgraceful condition in which the muniments of the kingdom were preserved and a sweeping reform was announced; but more important matters always appear to have shelved the subject. In 1567 Queen Elizabeth was informed of the confused and perilous state of the records, of her parliament and her chancery, and orders were given for rooms to be prepared in the Tower for the reception of these parchments, Her Majesty declaring that ‘ ‘ it was not meet that the records of her chancery, which were accounted as a principal measure of the treasure belonging to herself and to her crown and realm, should remain in private houses and places for doubt of such danger and spoil as theretofore had happened to the like records in the time of Richard II. and Henry VI.” This order was, however, never executed. On the accession of Charles II., William Prynne, then keeper of the records in the Tower, implored the king “to preserve these ancient records not only from fire and sword, but water, moths, canker, dust, cobwebs, for your own and your kingdom’s honour and service, they being such sacred reliques, such peerless jewels that your noble ancestors have estimated no places so fit to preserve them in as consecrated chapels or royal treasuries and wardrobes where they lay up their sacred crowns, jewels, robes ; and that upon very good grounds, they being the principal evidences by which they held, supported, defended their crowns, kingdoms, revenues, prerogatives, and their subjects, their respective lands, lives, liberties, properties, franchises, rights, laws. ” This earnest appeal was not urged before it was required. On his appointment to office Prynne made an inspection of the records under his custody. He found them
“ buried together in one confused chaos, dust, and filth in the dark corners of Ciesar’s chapel in the White Towel־.” He employed soldiers and women to remove and cleanse them, “ who soon growing weary of this noisome work left them as foul, dusty, and nasty as they found them.” He then begged the aid of the clerks of his department, but these officials, “ being unwilling to touch the records for fear of fouling their fingers, spoiling their clothes, endangering their eyesight and healths by their cankerous dust and evil scent,” declined the task. To the energetic Prynne the labour of methodizing the papers in his charge seemed hopeless ; he saw them in confused heaps hidden here and scattered there and destitute of anything approaching to an index. He lamented that it would require “Briareus his hundred hands, Argus his hundred eyes, and Nestor’s centuries of years to marshal them into distinct files and make exact alphabetical tables of the several things, names, places, comprised in them.” Still nothing was done to remedy the evils complained of. Addresses were presented to parliament upon the subject; reports were drawn up and committees frequently sat; but it was not until the beginning of this century that a complete and satisfactory investigation of the public records was entered into. In the summer of 1800 a very able report upon the state of the archives was drawn up; and a commission was appointed “to methodize, regulate, and digest the records.” But the commission directed its attention exclusively to the printing of antiquarian matter, and nothing was attempted for the better preservation of the archives. Dissatisfaction arose, and a select committee of the House of Commons was appointed to inquire into the working of the Record Commission. The result of its sittings was the passing of a special Act of Parliament, which placed the public records in the custody and under the superintendence of the master of the rolls for the time being, and directed the treasury forthwith to provide a suitable building. In 1851 the foundations of the present Record Repository were laid, and seven years afterwards the public records were removed from their different places of deposit and housed in their new quarters, where they are now most carefully preserved.
The history of the custody of the state papers which run from Henry VIII. to the present time is but a repetition of the neglect and ill-treatment which the public records had to endure. When they first began to be preserved they were locked up in chests, then confined in the larder of the privy seal, then lodged in the tower over the gateway of Whitehall Palace, then transferred to the upper floor of the lord chamberlain’s lodgings, then despatched to an old house in Scotland Yard ; and it was not till 1833 that the State Paper Office in St James’s Park was specially erected for their accommodation. Twenty years later it was deemed advisable by the Government of the day to amalgamate the state papers with the public records; the State Paper Office was therefore pulled down and its contents transferred to the repository in Fetter Lane. On making a careful examination of the state of the documents, it was found that many of them had “greatly suffered from vermin and wet,” and that the list of those which had been stolen or had strayed from the collection was no small one. Theft and destruction for private ends appear to have been the two chief agents of mischief. During the reign of Henry VIII. many of the despatches were appropriated by Lord St Albans and Lord Cherbury, to whom they were entrusted. In the reign of Queen Elizabeth most of the private business papers of Her Majesty, especially her letters on matters of secret importance, came into the hands of the earl of Leicester and finally into the possession of his secretary and his descendants; and, “though they were ultimately recovered, a great part had perished by time and the distraction of the wars, &c. ; being left in England during the Rebellion, many had been abused to the meanest purposes.” Upon the outbreak of the Civil War the king’s papers from the time he was in the north till the surrender of Oxford were designedly burned; whilst “a fair cabinet of the king’s, full of papers of a very secret nature, which had been left by the king upon his retirement to the Scots, amongst which were thought to be all the queen’s letters to the king and things of a very mysterious nature,” was also destroyed. In the turbulent days of the Commonwealth Bradshaw, in his capacity as president of the council, managed to obtain possession “of divers books, treaties, papers, and records of state,” some of which, in spite of all the efforts of Charles II., were not regained. At the Restoration “all the papers of state during the time of the usurpation remained in Thurloe’s hands, and Sir Samuel Morland advised a great minister to have them seized, being then privately in four great deal desks ; but for reasons left to be judged, that minister delayed to order it, and Thurloe had time to burn them that would have hanged a great many, and he certainly did burn them except some principal ones culled out by himself.” During the reign of Charles II. various papers were sent out of the country to The Hague and Sweden for the convenience of ambassadors, many of which were never returned. Indeed so carelessly did ministers watch their own documents that a treaty concluded with Holland in 1654 was bought at an auction, and the original treaty with Portugal in the same year was found on a stall in the street. Within almost a comparatively recent date there
were instances of documents sent out of the State Taper Office which were never returned,—a fact which may account for many of the purely official papers to be found in the manuscript collections of private individuals.
In spite, however, of past thefts and negligence, the state papers, like the public records, are a most wealthy and valuable collection. Their contents were considered so important that at one time it was a matter of the greatest difficulty for any outsider to obtain access to them. The keeper of the state papers was bound by oath “to let no man see anything in the office of His Majesty’s papers without a warrant from the king.” He was also “tied by a strict oath and by His Majesty’s commands to deliver nothing out of the office unless to the lords and others of the council. ” During the whole history of the State Paper Office the keeper never had power to grant on his own authority leave to consult the papers ; such permission could only be obtained from the secretary of state, to whose office the documents belonged. Among the persons fortunate enough to have this favour accorded them, we find that in 1670 Evelyn was lent several documents which related to Holland ; that in 1679 Dr Gilbert Burnet was permitted by warrant “from time to time to have the sight and use of such papers and books as he shall think may give him information and help in finishing his history of the Reformation of the Church of England”; and that in the same year Prince Rupert made a personal request to the king on behalf of Roger L’Estrange, who was writing a history of the Civil War in England. In later times permission was more freely given, though the “library of MSS.” was still most vigilantly guarded, and applications were more often refused than granted. As an instance of the strictness with which the state papers were preserved, we find that as late as 1775 Lord North, though he was then prime minister, had to beg the king’s permission to have free access to all correspondence in the Paper Office; and that in 1780 it was necessary for the Ordnance Office to have permission to search the Paper Office for any documents that regarded their department. These restrictions have now been entirely removed, thanks to the late Lord Romilly ; when he was master of the rolls, the public records were thrown open to the public free of all the charges that were formerly demanded for investigation, whilst the same liberal course has been pursued with regard to the state papers down to the year 1760. After that date special permission has to be obtained. Calendars and indexes of the public records are annually published in the appendices to the reports of the deputy-keeper of the public records. Large volumes—entitled Calendars of State Papers—consisting of condensations of the documents in the Public Record Office and elsewhere from the days of Henry VIII. to the 18th century are now in course of publication.
See Sir T. D. Hardy, Introduction to the Close and Patent Rolls; Fine Rolls, ed. C. Roberts; Feet of Fines, ed. Joseph Hunter; Thomas Madox, History and Antiquities of the Exchequer; Great Roll of the Pipe, ed. Joseph Hunter; the Record Report of 1800; Noel Sainsbury, “The State Paper Office,” in the deputy-keeper’s Thirtieth Report (Appendix); A. C. Ewald, Our Public Records.    (A. C. E.)
REDBREAST, the name of a bird which from its manners, no less familiar than engaging, has for a long while been so great a favourite among all classes in Great Britain as to have gained an almost sacred character. The pleasing colour of its plumage—one striking feature of which is expressed by its ancient name—its sprightly air, full dark eye, enquiring and sagacious demeanour, added to the trust in man it often exhibits, but, above all, the cheerful sweetness of its song, even “when winter chills the day ” and scarce another bird is heard—combine to produce the effects just mentioned, so that among many European nations it has earned some endearing name, though there is no country in which “ Robin Redbreast ” is held so highly in regard as England.@@1 Well known as is its appearance and voice throughout the whole year in the British Islands, there are not many birds which to the attentive observer betray more unmistakably the influence of the migratory impulse ; but somewhat close scrutiny is needed to reveal this fact. In the months of July and August the hedgerows of the southern counties of England may be seen to be beset with Redbreasts, not in flocks as is the case with so many other species, but each indi-
@@@1 English colonists in far distant lands have gladly applied the common nickname of the Redbreast to other birds that are not immediately allied to it. The ordinary “Robin” of North America is a Thrush, Turdus migratorius (see Fieldfare, vol. ix. p. 142), and one of the Bluebirds of the same continent, the Sialia sialis of most ornithologists, is in ordinary speech the Blue “ Robin ” ; while the same familiar name is given in the various communities of Australasia to several species of the genus Petrocca, though some have no red breast.
vidual keeping its own distance from the next@@1 —all, however, pressing forward on their way to cross the Channel. On the European continent the migration is still more marked, and the Redbreast on its autumnal and vernal passages is the object of hosts of bird-catchers, since its value as a delicacy for the table has long been recognized.@@2  But even those Redbreasts which stay in Britain during the winter are subject to a migratory movement easily perceived by any one that will look out for it. Occupying during autumn their usual haunts in outlying woods or hedges, the first sharp frost at once makes them change their habitation, and a heavy fall of snow drives them towards the homesteads for such food as they may find there, while, should severe weather continue long and sustenance become more scarce, even these stranger birds disappear—most of them possibly to perish—leaving only the few that have already become almost domiciled among men. On the approach of spring the accustomed spots are revisited, but among the innumerable returning denizens Redbreasts are apt to be neglected, for their song not being powerful is drowned or lost, as Gilbert White well remarked, in the general chorus.
From its abundance, or from innumerable figures, the Redbreast is too well known to need description, yet there are very few representations of it which give a notion of its characteristic appearance or gestures—all so suggestive of intelligence. Its olive-brown back and reddish-orange breast, or their equivalents in black and white, may be easily imitated by the draughtsman; but the faculty of tracing a truthful outline or fixing the peculiar expression of this favourite bird has proved to be beyond the skill of almost every artist who has attempted its portraiture. The Redbreast exhibits a curious uncertainty of temperament in regard to its nesting habits. At times it will place the utmost confidence in man, and again at times shew the greatest jealousy. The nest, though generally pretty, can seldom be called a work of art, and is usually built of moss and dead leaves, with a moderate lining of hair. In this are laid from five to seven white eggs, sprinkled or blotched with light red.
Besides the British Islands, the Redbreast (which is the Mota-cilla rubecula of Linnaeus and the Erithacus rubecula of modern authors) is generally dispersed over the continent of Europe, and is in winter found in the oases of the Sahara. Its eastern limits are not well determined. In Northern Persia it is replaced by a very nearly allied form, Erithacus hyrcanus, distinguishable by its more ruddy hues, while in Northern China and Japan another species, E. akahige, is found of which the sexes differ somewhat in plumage—the cock having a blackish band below his red breast, and greyish-black flanks, while the hen closely resembles the familiar British species—but both cock and hen have the tail of chestnut-red. A beautiful bird supposed to inhabit Corea, the Sylvia komadori of Temminck, of which specimens are very scarce in collections, is placed by some writers in the genus Erithacus, but whether it has any very close affinity to the Redbreasts does not yet seem to be proved. It is of a bright orange-red above, and white beneath, the male, however, having the throat and breast black.    (A. N.)
REDDITCH, a town of Worcestershire, is situated on an eminence near tlie Warwickshire border, 16 miles southwest of Birmingham by the Midland Railway. The church of St Stephen, a handsome building in the Decorated style, erected in 1854-55, contains some good stained-glass windows. A public cemetery was formed in 1854. Among the public buildings are the county court, where special sessions are held, and the literary and scientific institute. In the neighbourhood are the remains of Bordesley Abbey, founded by the Cistercians in 1138. The town is an important seat of the needle manufacture. The urban
@@@1    It is a very old saying that TJnum arhustum non alit duos Erithacos—one bush does not harbour two Redbreasts.
@@@2    Of late years an additional impulse has been given to the capture of this species by the absurd fashion of using its skin for the trimming of ladies’ dresses and “Christmas cards.”
sanitary district (area about 926 acres) had a population of about 7871 in 1871, and of 9961 in 1881.
REDEMPTORISTS or Liguorians. See Liguori, vol. xiv. p. 635.
RED RIVER. Three at least of the many Red Rivers of the world deserve to be mentioned,—(1) the Red River or Fleuve Rouge, the Songcoi or Thao of the Anamese, the Hoang-Kiang of the Chinese, which flows through the heart of Tong-king (q.v.) ; (2) the Red River which rises in the Stake Plain in Texas (U.S.), passes through a magnificent canon 100 miles long, and from 200 to 1000 feet deep, and furnishes a navigable channel of 1200 miles before it reaches the Mississippi (q.v.) ; (3) the Red River of the North, a somewhat smaller stream, which, rising in Elbow Lake (so called from its shape) in Minnesota (U.S.), not far from the sources of the Mississippi, crosses into Canada at Pembina, and falls into Lake Winnipeg, after a course of 565 miles (110 in Canada). The Red River of the Mississippi presents the physical geographer with a phenomenon nowhere reproduced on the same scale, —a great raft of timber and driftwood, which, in spite of the labours of Captain Shreve (1835-39) and General Williamson and Captain Linnard (1841-45), had by 1871 increased so as to block the channel for 45 miles between Spring Creek and Caroline Bluff. The Red River of the North is equally famous as the scene of some of the leading events in the history of the North-West.
Red River Settlement.—In 1811 the fifth earl of Selkirk (1771-1820), who had devoted special attention to emigration as a means of providing for the surplus population of the Scottish Highlands, obtained from the Hudson’s Bay Company a grant of land in what was then called the district of Ossiniboia (Assiniboia). In 1813 a settlement was founded by his agent, Mr Miles Macdonell, on the banks of the Red River, the first fort (Fort Daer) being at Pembina. By 1814 the settlers numbered 200. The North-West Fur-Traders of Manchester (a company which was the bitterest rival of the Hudson’s Bay Company till the two amalgamated in 1821) did all they could by force and fraud to break up the colony, which, by 1816, had taken up its headquarters at Fort Douglas, on the site of the present town of Winnipeg. The French-Indian half-breeds (Bois-Brûlés) were incited against it, and its mills and houses were burned. The earl of Selkirk, arriving on the scene, succeeded in reorganizing the community, to which the name of Kildonan was now given, after Kildonan in Helmsdale, Sutherland-shire. He found himself personally involved in a very network of hostile intrigue ; but the colony was saved, and after his premature death it continued to be more or less supported by his heirs till 1824. In 1835 Lord Selkirk’s territorial claims were transferred to the Hudson’s Bay Company, who undertook to pay the expenses incurred by the family. At that date the population of the settlement consisted of about 5000 Highlanders, Bois-Brûlés, English half-breeds, and retired company officials. At the transfer of territorial jurisdiction to the Canadian Government in 1869 the Bois-Brûlés, under a certain Louis Riel (son of a Frenchman who had built the first mill on the Red river), revolted and declared an independent republic. Colonel (now Lord) Wolseley was despatched with a force of 1400 men, and without bloodshed took possession of Fort Garry on 24th August 1870. The only striking feature of the expedition was the remarkable energy with which the difficulties of transport were overcome. Riel in 1885 became the leader of another unsuccessful insurrection of half-breeds in the same region.
See Halkett, Statement respecting the Earl of Selkirk’s Settlement upon the Red River, London, 1817 ; G. Bryce, Manitoba, 1882 (which contains previously unpublished documents) ; “ Narrative of the Red River Expedition,” in Blackwood’s Magazine, vols, cviii. and eix. (1871).
REDRUTH, a market town of Cornwall, is pleasantly situated on the West Cornwall Railway, about 9 miles west of Truro. It is almost the centre of the mining district of West Cornwall, and, though many of the rich copper mines are now abandoned, others have proved rich in tin at greater depths, and new mines have also been opened, sufficient to render Redruth one of the most busy and important towns of the county. Within the last few years a post-office, a mining exchange, and a school of science and art have been built, as well as a new church. At the foot of Carn Brea, the unique Druidical hill, surmounted by masses of granite, with an ancient castle and
monument to Lord de Dunstanville, is tlie parish church dedicated to St Uny, with a fine old 15th-century tower and peal of bells. The industries include brewing, tinsmelting, making of safety fuses, and iron-founding. Besides the market-house, there are a granite town-hall, a masonic hall, and the public rooms with Druids’ Hall. At the west end of the town is the West Cornwall Miners’ Hospital (thirty beds), erected by Lord Robartes in 1863 and since added to by the same nobleman. The population of the urban sanitary district (area 4006 acres) in 1871 was 10,685, and in 1881 it was 9335.
RED SEA. The Red Sea runs north-north-west from the Gulf of Aden in the Indian Ocean for about 1200 miles, extending from 12° 40' to 30° N. lat. The Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb at the entrance to the Gulf of Aden is 13i miles across, and is divided by Perim Island into two channels, the north-eastern narrow and shallow, the south-western 10 miles wide, and deep. The sea widens rapidly to 140 miles in 16° N. lat., and more gradually to 205 miles off Kunfuda in 19° N. lat.; from this point it narrows to 115 miles in 24° N. lat., a breadth which is maintained up to 27° 45' N. lat., where the sea divides into two gulfs, those of Suez and 'Akaba. The Gulf of Suez continues in the north-north-west direction for 170 miles, with an average width of 30 miles; that of 'Akaba is narrower, and runs north-north-east for 97 miles. The Sinaitic peninsula between the two gulfs bounds the Red Sea to the north; on the east the Arabian coast and on the west the coasts of Egypt, Nubia, and Abyssinia form the boundaries.
The Arabian coast (see Arabia) is generally a narrow sandy plain backed by ranges of barren mountains abrupt in outline and of moderate height. Enormous coral reefs run along the coast in broken lines, parallel to the shore but not connected with it. They usually rise out of deep water to within a few feet of the surface; and a navigable channel of from 2 to 3 miles in width, in which the water is always calm, extends between them and the land. The Farisan Archipelago in 17* N. lat. is the largest and most important of the island groups of the eastern reef. It is entirely of organic formation. The most important harbours of Arabia on the Red Sea are Mokha in 13° 30׳ N. lat. (now nearly deserted for those of Aden and Hodeida, the port of San'a), Lokeyyali about 200 miles farther north, Jiddah in 21° 20׳ N. lat. (the only well protected harbour), and Yenbo' in 24° N. lat. The western coast is flat and desert in the north, but gives place farther south to high tablelands rising at some distance from the shore, and then to the lofty Abyssinian mountains (see Abyssinia, Africa, Egypt). The parallel system of coral reefs is not so extensive as on the east coast, and being nearer the land the inshore channel is narrower. The large and curiously shaped coral-rock island of Dahlak, lying off Annesley Bay, is the most important on the reef. There are seven or eight harbours, of which the best known are Massowah, a little to the north of Annesley Bay (the largest inlet on the sea), and the port of disembarkation of the British troops in the Abyssinian War of 1868, Klior Nowarat, which, though small, is the best bay in the Red Sea, and Sawakin (Suakim) in 19’ 30' N. lat., the chief port of the Soudan trade.
The only islands of importance not already mentioned are those of the volcanic group in 14° N. lat., one of which, Jebel Zugur, 10 miles long and 7 wide, rises in a series of bare hills to the altitude of 2074 feet, and the islet Jebel Teir in 15° 30' N. lat., on which a volcano has only recently become inactive. A dangerous reef named the Daedalus in 24’ 26' N. lat. lies right in the way of steamships traversing the sea; it is covered with a few feet of water or uncovered, according to the season, and, like most of the
reefs and islands on the usual track of vessels, is furnished with a lighthouse.
The Red Sea area is in a state of gradual upheaval, the former seaport of Adulis on Annesley Bay is now 4 miles from the shore, and at Suez the former limits of the sea can be traced for several miles northwards; whereas the north coast of Egypt is undergoing gradual subsidence.
Tides.—The tides are imperceptible at many places on the fled Sea, and where observable they are extremely uncertain, varying both as to time and to amount of rise with the direction and force of the wind. At Suez, where they are most regular, the rise varies from 7 feet at spring to 4 feet at neap tides. The surface-currents of the sea are also variable and perplexing; they are chiefly produced by the wind, and change in velocity and direction accordingly.
Traffic.—From the decline of the old Indian trade with Egypt till the formation of the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company and the overland route to India in 1840, traffic in the Red Sea was almost entirely confined to small native vessels trading with grain and fruit between Egypt and Arabia, and carrying pilgrims to Jiddah, the port of Mecca. Since 1840 passenger traffic, and since the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869 trade of all kinds in European vessels, have greatly increased. A telegraphic cable was laid from Bombay to Suez in 1859.
Meteorology.—The climate of the Red Sea region is one of the hottest in the world. The altitude of the sun, the almost continually cloudless skies, the arid rainless character of the shores, and the complete absence of rivers combine to make the mean temperature high. That of the air usually ranges from 70° to 94° Fain־., though it has been frequently observed as high as 105° in the shade on board ship, and in the northern part of the sea the clearness of the nights promotes radiation, so that by morning the thermometer may fall to the freezing-point on shore. The atmosphere over the land is very dry ; the difference between the readings of the wet and dry bulb thermometers is frequently as much as 25°, and sometimes, during the prevalence of the desert wind, it rises to 40°. The evaporation from the Red Sea is naturally excessive; the humidity of the air over the water is always great in summer, and when the wind blows off the sea the atmosphere is frequently saturated on shore. From the direction of the prevailing winds, precipitation takes place chiefly on the mountains of Abyssinia. North-north-west winds prevail on shore all the year round with very slight exception; but in the middle of the sea they are only universal from June to September, and are confined to the northern half from October to May. During the latter season south-south-east winds prevail in the southern part of the sea, while a belt of calms and light variable breezes occupies a changing position near the centre. The southerly winds are often accompanied with rain squalls, and in September there are frequently calms and hazy weather. Hurricanes and heavy storms seldom occur in the sea, but moderate gales are common and sandstorms not unusual. From the admiralty temperature charts it appears that the mean temperature of the surface-water at the four typical seasons of the year, taking all available data into account, is as follows :—
Gulf of About    South Adjacent
Suez. 20' N. lat. End. Indian Ocean.
February..............65°    75°    78°    84°
May..................76°    80°    87°    85’
August ..............79°    85°    89°    79°
November............76°    86°    82°    82°
The temperature of the water at the south end of the sea is usually in excess of that of the air, and it is on record that on four consecutive days the temperature of the surface-water was 100°, 106°, 100°, and 96°, while at the same time that of the air was 80°, 82°, 83°, and 82°. The surface-temperature varies from 70° to 90°, according to the position and the season. The winter mean of the northern part is about 71°, and this temperature continues to the bottom at that season. When the temperature on the surface is higher than 71° it gradually falls as the depth increases, until at about 200 fathoms it becomes uniform in all parts of the sea as 71°, a temperature which is maintained from that depth to the bottom all the year round. This is in consonance with all observations made on enclosed seas, the water below the point to which the barrier reaches being of uniform temperature. According to some authorities this is the isoclieimal or mean winter temperature of the surface ; but the researches of the “Challenger” seem to indicate that the temperature of the external ocean at the summit of the barrier is that which extends to the bottom of the enclosed sea.
Physical Conditions.—The greatest depth, which occurs in 21° N. lat., is about 1200 fathoms, and from this point the sea shoals to each end. The general conformation of the bottom is that of a series of gradually sloping rounded elevations with rounded basins between them. The water is shallow in the Gulf of Suez and also at the Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb, where the depth in the centre if the large channel is a little under 200 fathoms. The Red Sea basin is cut off from the general oceanic circulation by a barrier rising
to within 200 fathoms of the surface in a channel that has a much smaller average depth and is only 13^ miles wide. As no rivers discharge into it and little rain falls, it must be viewed as a purely evaporational area, and as such it is of extreme scientific interest. It reproduces and exaggerates all the special physical conditions of the Mediterranean ; but on account of the extremely trying nature of the climate it has not been so thoroughly investigated. The average amount of evaporation at Aden is variously estimated at from 025־ to 075־ inch per day, or from 8 to 23 feet per year ; in the Red Sea generally it must be at least equal to the smaller figure, and probably exceeds it. As the level of the Red Sea is not subject to any permanent change it is evident that water must flow in through the Strait of Bab-el-Mandcb—the slight current through the Suez Canal need not be considered—to replace loss by evaporation. If there were no return current it is estimated that the Red Sea would become a mass of solid salt in one or two thousand years. Although the salinity of the water is higher than that of the water of the oceau it does not appear to be on the increase. The density of Red Sea water at 60° Fahr. is about 1030־, corresponding to 4 0־ per cent, of total salts, while that of average ocean water is 1026־, which corresponds to 35־ per cent, of salts. In order to account for the constancy of salinity in the Red Sea it is necessary to assume the existence of strong undercurrents of salt water passing out of the sea, beneath the opposite entering current of fresher water. These undercurrents have not yet been observed, but there are indirect proofs of their existence. During the hottest months (July to September), when there is most evaporation, the prevalence of northerly winds drives the water out of the Red Sea as a rapid surface-drift; the south-west monsoon is blowing in the Indian Ocean at the same time, and the general level in the Red Sea is from 2 to 3 feet higher than during the cooler months, when evaporation is less, and when the north-east monsoon forces water into the funnel-shaped Gulf of Aden, and thence through the Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb. This is held by Dr W. B. Carpenter to be a proof of the existence of an undercurrent, for the north-east wind forms a head of water at the strait, which to equalize pressure over the area produces an under-return-current, and this greatly accelerates the flow of the regular undercurrent of the Red Sea, and so lowers the general level. In summer the outflow of dense salt water is slower, and this more than neutralizes the effect of the outward surface-drift, which to some extent reduces the volume of the entering fresher water at that season. In the Red Sea there is a constant and regular sub-surface circulation of water due solely to evaporation ; the surface-drifts caused by wind, although they form rapid currents and render navigation dangerous at times, are minor agents in the system and modify it only to a slight extent. The Red Sea and the Persian Gulf serve as concentration areas for maintaining the salinity of the deep water in the Indian Ocean, in opposition to the currents of comparatively fresh water flowing northwards from the Antarctic Ocean.
Deposits.—In a sea so nearly landlocked and so narrow the deposits which cover the bottom are naturally of the order classed as terrigenous. The large quantity of sand blown into the sea, the immense abundance of corals and other calcareous organisms in the water, and the entire absence of rivers with their suspended sediments produce deposits more nearly resembling in some of their characteristics those of the open ocean than those of inland seas. But the sand and ooze from the bottom of the Red Sea have not yet been thoroughly examined.
Fauna.—Animal life in all its forms is extremely abundant in the Red Sea, which, however, cannot be said to have been any more completely surveyed from a biological than from a physical point of view, although several eminent zoologists have studied special types. Great numbers of new species have been discovered by each investigator, and it has been ascertained that the Red Sea fauna differs considerably from that of the Mediterranean, not more than twenty species being common, it is stated, to both, thus indicating that the separation of the two seas must have taken place at a remote epoch, which appears from geological evidence to be the Eocene period. It exhibits affinities with the fauna of the Pacific, particularly with that of the coast of Japan. Corals are more plentiful and more active in the Red Sea than in almost any other piece of water of its size, a result probably due equally to the high temperature, the great salinity of the water, and the abundance of food.    (H. R. M.)
REDSHANK, the usual name of a bird—the Scolopax calidris of Linnaeus and Totanus calidris of modern authors —so called in English from the colour of the bare part of its legs, which, being also long, are conspicuous as it flies over its marshy haunts or runs nimbly beside the waters it affects. In suitable localities it is abundant throughout the greater part of Europe and Asia, from Iceland to China, mostly retiring to the southward for the winter, though a considerable number remain during that season
along the coasts and estuaries of some of the more northern countries. Before the great changes effected by drainage in England it was a common species in many districts, but at the present day there are very few to which it can resort for the purpose of reproduction. In such of them as remain, its lively actions, both on the ground and in the air, as well as its loud notes render the Redshank, during the breeding-season, one of the most observable inhabitants of what without its presence would often be a desolate spot, and invest it with a charm for the lover of wild nature. At other times the cries of this bird may be thought too shrill, but in spring the love-notes of the male form what may fairly be called a song, the constantly repeated refrain of which—leero, leero, leero (for so it may be syllabled)— rings musically around, as with many gesticulations he hovers in attendance on the flight of his mate; or, with a slight change to a different key, engages with a rival; or again, half angrily and half piteously complains of a human intruder on his chosen ground. The body of the Redshank is almost as big as a Snipe’s, but its longer neck, wings, and legs make it appear a much larger bird. Above, the general colour is greyish-drab, freckled with black, except the lower part of the back and a conspicuous band on each wing, which are white, while the flight-quills are black, thus producing a very harmonious effect. In the breeding-season the back and breast are mottled with dark brown, but in winter the latter is white. The nest is generally concealed in a tuft of rushes or grass, a little removed from the wettest parts of the swamp whence the bird gets its sustenance, and contains four eggs, usually of a rather warmly tinted brown with blackish spots or blotches; but no brief description can be given that would point out their differences from the eggs of other birds, more or less akin, among which, those of the Lapwing (vol. xiv. p. 308) especially, they are taken and find a ready sale.
The name Redshank, prefixed by some epithet as Black, Dusky, or Spotted, has also been applied to a larger but allied species— the Totanus fuscus of ornithologists. This is a much less common bird, and in Great Britain as well as the greater part of Europe it only occurs on its passage to or from its breeding-grounds, which are usually found south of the Arctic Circle, and differ much from those of its congeners—the spot ־ chosen for the nest being nearly always in the midst of forests and, though not in the thickest part of them, often with trees on all sides, generally where a fire has cleared the undergrowth, and mostly at some distance from water. This peculiar habit was first ascertained by Wolley in Lapland in 1853 and the following year. The breeding-dress this bird assumes is also very remarkable, and seems (as is suggested) to have some correlation with the burnt and blackened surface interspersed with white stones or tufts of lichen on which its nest is made—for the head, neck, shoulders, and lower parts are of a deep black, contrasting vividly with the pure white of the back and rump, while the legs become of an intense crimson. At other times of the year the plumage is very similar to that of the common Redshank, and the legs are of the same light orange-red.    (A. N.)
REDSTART, a bird well known in Great Britain, in many parts of which it is called Firetail—a name of almost the same meaning, since “ start ” is from the Anglo-Saxon steort, a tail.@@1 This beautiful bird, the Huticilla phoenicurus of most ornithologists, returns to England about the middle or towards the end of April, and at once takes up its abode in gardens, orchards, and about old buildings, when its curious habit of flirting at nearly every change of position its brightly-coloured tail, together with the pure white forehead, the black throat, and bright bay breast of the cock, renders him conspicuous, even if attention be not drawn by his lively and pleasing though short and intermittent song. The hen is much more plainly attired ; but the characteristic colouring and action of the tail per-
@@@1 On tins point tlie articles “Stark-naked” and “Start” in Prof. Skeat’s Etymological Dictionary may be usefully consulted ; but the connexion between these words would be still more evident had this bird’s habit of quickly moving its tail been known to the learned author.
tain to her equally as to her mate. The nest is almost always placed in a hole, whether of a tree or of a more or less ruined building, and contains from five to seven eggs of a delicate greenish-blue, occasionally sprinkled with faint red spots. The young on assuming their feathers present a great resemblance to those of the Redbreast (supra, p. 314) at the same age; but the red tail, though of duller hue than in the adult, forms even at this early age an easy means of distinguishing them. The Redstart breeds regularly in all the counties of England and Wales; but, except in such localities as have been already named, it is seldom plentiful. It also reaches the extreme north of Scotland ; but in Ireland it is of very rare occurrence. It appears throughout the whole of Europe in summer, and is known to winter in the interior of Africa. To the eastward its limits cannot yet be exactly defined, as several very nearly allied forms occur in Asia; and one, R. aurorea, represents it in Japan.
A congeneric species which has received the name of Black Redstart,@@1 Rutidlla titys,@@2 is very common throughout the greater part of the Continent, where, from its partiality for gardens in towns and villages, it is often better known than the preceding species. It yearly occurs in certain parts of England, chiefly along or near the south coast, and curiously enough during the autumn and winter, since it is in central Europe only a summer visitor, and it has by no means the high northern range of R. phoenicurus. The males of the Black Redstart seem to be more than one year in acquiring their full plumage (a rare thing in Passerine birds), and since they have been known to breed in the intermediate stage this fact has led to such birds being accounted a distinct species under the name of R. cairii, thereby perplexing ornithologists for a long while, though now almost all authorities agree that these birds are, in one sense, immature.
More than a dozen species of the genus Rutidlla have been described, and the greater number of them seem to belong to the Himalayan Sub-region or its confines. One very pretty and interesting form is the R. moussieri of Barbary, which no doubt allies the Redstart to the Stone-Chats (q.v.), Pratincola, and of late some authors have included it in that genus. In an opposite direction the Bluethroats, apparently nearer to the Redstarts than to any other type, are by some authorities placed in the genus Rutidlla, by others considered to form a distinct genus Cyanecula, and by at least one recent writer referred to the genus Edthacus (see Redbreast). If we look upon them as constituting a separate genus we find it to contain two or three distinguishable forms:—(1) C. suedca, with a bright bay spot in the middle of its clear blue throat, breeding in Scandinavia, Northern Russia, and Siberia, and wintering in Abyssinia and India, though rarely appearing in the intermediate countries, to the wonder of all who have studied the mystery of the migration of birds; next there is (2) C. leucocyanea, wT ith a white instead of a red gular spot, a more Western form, ranging from Barbary to Germany and Holland; and lastly (3) G. wolfi, thought by some authorities (and not without reason) to be but an accidental variety of the preceding (2), with its throat wholly blue,—a form of comparatively rare occurrence. The first of these is a not unfrequent, though very irregular visitant to England, while the second has appeared there but seldom, and the third never, so far as is known. By
the ornithologist of tolerably wide views the Redstarts and Bluethroats must be regarded as forming with the Nightingale (vol. xvii. p. 498), Redbreast, Hedge-Sparrow, Wheatear, and Chats a single group of the “Family” Sylviidse, which has been usually called Saxicolinss, and is that which is most nearly allied to the Thrushes (see Thrush).
In America the name Redstart has been not unfittingly bestowed upon a bird which has some curious outward resemblance, both in looks and manners, to that of the Old Country, though the two are in the opinion of some systematists nearly as widely separated from each other as truly Passerine birds well can be. The American Redstart is the Sctophaga rutidlla of authors, belonging to the purely New-World family MniotiUidse, and to a genus which contains about a dozen species, ranging from Canada (in summer) to Bolivia. The wonderful likeness, coupled of course with many sharp distinctions, upon which it would be here impossible to dwell, between the birds of these two genera of perfectly distinct origin, is a matter that must compel every evolutionist to admit that we are as yet very far from penetrating the action of Creative Power, and that especially we are wholly ignorant of the causes which in some instances produce analog)׳·.    (A. N.)
REDWING, Swedish Roddnge, Danish Roddrossel, German Rothdrossel, Dutch Koperwiek, a species of Thrush (q.v.), the Turdus iliacus of authors, which is an abundant winter visitor to the British Islands, arriving in autumn generally about the same time as the Fieldfare (vol. ix. p. 142) does. This bird has its common English name @@3  from the sides of its body, its inner wing-coverts, and axil-laries being of a bright reddish-orange, of which colour, however, there is no appearance on the wing itself while the bird is at rest, and not much is ordinarily seen while it is in flight. In other respects it is very like a Song-Thrush, and indeed in France and some other countries it bears the name Mauvis or Mavis, often given to that species in some parts of Britain; but its coloration is much more vividly contrasted, and a conspicuous white, instead of a light brown, streak over the eye at once affords a ready diagnosis. The Redwing breeds in Iceland, in the sub-alpine and arctic districts of Norway, Sweden, and Finland, and thence across Northern Russia and Siberia, becoming scarce to the eastward of the Yenissei, and not extending beyond Lake Baikal. In winter it visits the whole of Europe and North Africa, occasionally reaching Madeira, while to the eastward it is found at that season in the north-western Himalayas and Kohat. Many writers have praised the song of this bird, comparing it with that of the Nightingale (vol. xvii. p. 498); but herein they seem to have been as much mistaken as in older times was Linnmus, who, according to Nilsson (Om. Svedca, i. p. 177, note), failed to distinguish in life this species from its commoner congener T. musicus. The notes of the Redwing are indeed pleasing in places where no better songster exists; but the present writer, who has many times heard them under very favourable circumstances, cannot but suppose that those who have called the Redwing the “Nightingale” of Norway or of Sweden have attributed to it the credit that properly belongs to the Song-Thrush ; for to him it seems that the vocal utterances of the Redwing do not place it even in the second rank of feathered musicians. Its nest
@@@1    The author of a popular work on British birds has suggested for this species the name of “ Blackstart,” thereby recording his ign< ־ance of the meaning of the second syllable of the compound name as already explained, for the Black Redstart has a tail as red as that of the commoner English bird.
@@@2    The orthography of the specific term would seem to be titis (Ann. Nat. ITiston/, ser. 4, x. p. 227), a word possibly cognate with the first syllable of Titlark and Titmouse.
@@@3 Many old writers assert that this bird used to be known in England as the “ Swinepipe ”; but, except in books, this name does not seem to survive to the present day. There is no reason, however, to doubt that it was once in vogue, and the only question is how it may have arisen. If it has not been corrupted from the German Weindrossd or some other similar name, it may refer to the soft inward whistle which the bird often utters, resembling the sound of the pipe used by the swineherds of old when collecting the animals under their charge, whether in the wide stubbles or the thick beech-woods ; but another form of the word (which may, however, be erroneous) is “ Windpipe,” and this might lead to a conclusion very different, if indeed to any conclusion at all. “ Whindle ” and “ Wheenerd ” have also been given as two other old English names of this bird (Harl. Miscellany, 1st ed., ii. p. 558), and these may be referred to the local German Weindrustle and Winsel.
and eggs a good deal resemble those of the Blackbird, and have none of the especial characters which distinguish those of the Song-Thrush.    (a. n.)
RED WING, a city of the United States, capital of Goodhue county, Minnesota, occupies a commanding site on a plateau encircled by high bluffs (nearly 300 feet high), on the west bank of the Mississippi, 41 miles south of St Paul on the La Crosse division of the Chicago and St Paul Railroad ; it is also the eastern terminus of the Cannon Valley branch of the same railway. Red Wing has an opera-house and a music-hall ; it trades in lumber, manufactures earthenware, waggons and carriages, furniture, flour, leather, and boots and shoes, and exports large quantities of wheat. The population was 4260 in 1870 and 5876 in 1880; in 1885 it was estimated at 8000, including 1050 employés in manufactories.
REDWOOD. See Sequoia.
REED, a term applied to several distinct species of large, water-loving grasses. The common or water reed, Phragmites communis, Trin. (Arundo pliragmites, L.), occurs along the margins of lakes, fens, marshes, and placid streams, not only throughout Britain but over the Palæ-arctic and Nearctic regions, and even in South Australia. Another very important species is Psamma arenaria, R. and S. (Ammophila or Arundo arundinacea, Host.), the sea-reed or marram grass, a native of the sandy shores of Europe and North Africa. Both species have been of notable geological importance, the former binding the soil and so impeding denudation, and actually converting swamp into dry land, largely by the aid of its tall (5 to 10 feet) close set stems, which not only break the currents of water around them, and so cause deposition of their sediment, but furnish in themselves an important annual contribution to the incipient soil. The latter species, of which the branching rootstocks may be traced 30 or even 40 feet, is of still greater importance in holding sand-dunes against the encroachments of the sea, and for this purpose has not only been long protected by law but has been extensively planted on the coasts of Norfolk, Holland, Gascony, &c. Other reeds are Calamagrostis (various species), Gynérium argenteum (pampas grass), Deyeuxia, &c., also Arundo Donax, the largest European grass (6 to 12 feet high), which is abundant in southern Europe. Reeds have been extensively used from the earliest times in thatching and in other branches of construction, and also for arrows,
the pipes of musical instruments, &c. Reed pens are still used in the East (see Pen). Plants belonging to other orders occasionally share the name, especially the bur-reed (Sparganium) and the reed-mace (Typha), both belonging to the natural order Typhaceee. The bulrushes (Scirpus), belonging to the natural order Cyperacese, are also to be distinguished. See Grasses; also Sowerby’s British Grasses, &c.
REED, in music. See Oboe, vol. xvii. p. 705; Harmonium, vol. xi. p. 483; and Organ, vol. xvii. p. 828 sq.
REEVE, Clara (1725-1803), one of the imitators of Horace Walpole in Gothic romance, was born at Ipswich in 1725. She was an industrious woman of letters, and produced many works in prose and verse, including an interesting sketch of the Progress of Romance; but her only eminent success was the romance of The Old English Baron (1777). In her theory about the use of the supernatural, as in chronological position, she stands midway between Walpole and Mrs Radcliffe. Though she owned Walpole as a master, she declined to follow as far as he went in supernatural incident; she admits a castle and a haunted wing and the ghost of a murdered man, but draws the line before statues dropping blood, pictures that groan and walk out of their frames, and suchlike improbabilities. She was the daughter of a Suffolk clergyman, and died at Ipswich in 1803.
REFEREE, in law, is a person to whom a matter is delegated by a superior for report or decision. The principal use of the word occurs in the practice of the House of Commons and of the High Court of Justice. The Court of Referees is a court to which the House of Commons commits the decision of all questions of locus standi,—that is, the right of petitioners to be heard in opposition to private Bills. A referee is also associated with members of the House as a member of every committee on an opposed Bill, but may not vote. Under the Judicature Act, 1873, cases are submitted to either official or special referees for inquiry and report, or for trial. Inquiry and report may be directed in any case,—trial only by consent of the parties, or in any matter requiring any prolonged examination of documents or accounts, or any scientific or local investigation which cannot be tried in the ordinary way (36 and 37 Viet. c. 66, ss. 56, 57 ; Rules of the Supreme Court, 1883, Ord. xxxvi.).
REFLEXION. See Light, vol. xiv. p. 586 sq.
REFORMATION
THE period occupied by the great movement known as the Protestant Reformation stands identified, for the most part, with the period which marks the transition from the mediaeval to the modern era in European history. Taken within its narrowest limits, it may be looked upon as commencing with the year 1517 and as finding a certain consummation with the year 1545. In the former year Luther’s theses, published at Wittenberg,@@1 represent the commencement of that direct and open renunciation of mediaeval doctrine which he initiated; in the latter year the assembling of the council of Trent marks the renewed sanction and promulgation of that doctrine whereby an insuperable barrier was erected between the communion of Rome and the churches of Protestantism. From that time each communion possessed its distinctive organization and formulary of faith, and the struggles which subsequently took place between Romanism and Protestantism represent, not attempts to bring about or to
resist reform (whether of discipline or of doctrine), but endeavouis on the part of both communions to bring about, if possible, the extinction of the opposed form of faith.
But, although the contest which Luther initiated had, long before his death, resulted in complete and irreparable rupture between the contending parties, it is certain that in order to understand the true nature and origin of that contest we must go back to events long anterior to 1517 ; while in order fully to estimate its effects we must follow the history of events long after 1545. In Germany, for example, the Reformation can hardly be regarded as finding even a formal consummation before the peace of Augsburg (1555) ; in Switzerland the movement went on with important modifications down to the death of Calvin in 1564 ; in France the onward progress was not materially checked before the massacre on the eve of St Bartholomew (1572); in Bohemia its independent and peculiar fortunes found a final solution only with the battle of the White Hill in 1620; while in England and in Scotland, in the Netherlands, in Scandinavia, in Italy and in Spain, the
@@@1 Most of the details of the main facts connected with the German Reformation during Luther’s lifetime are given under Luther.
movement assumed so much variety of character, and was decided by circumstances of time and ¡)lace of so different a kind, that its essential features often become merged and almost lost in their combination with other and altogether extraneous elements, e Nor are the considerations arising out of diversities of race, divergencies of political interests, and varied issues the only difficulties which attach to any attempt to treat the movement as a whole. We must also bear in mind the very different conceptions of the end to be attained which at successive stages of its history have modified its teaching and its organization, and eventually in a great measure determined its geographical limits. These conceptions may be distinguished as those involving (1) a reform of discipline, (2) a reform of doctrine, (3) a modification of the current dogmatic teaching. Of these three distinct conceptions the first, taking its rise in the generally admitted corrupt practice of the Roman Church, aimed at little more than a restoration of discipline,—a reform of morals, that is to say, among the clergy and the monastic orders, and the abolition of those various abuses which had grown up under the lax administration and baneful examples of successive popes and of the Curia; the second, although demanding a reform of doctrine as well as of discipline, sought simply to restore what was believed to be the teaching of the primitive as opposed to the mediaeval church; while the third, guided in the first instance rather by an only half-conscious instinct than by any avowed standard of belief, sought eventually to establish the right of private judgment, to the almost entire repudiation of authority, whether as expressed in the decrees of councils, in the confessions of the Reformed churches, or in the creed of Trent. And it is from this last point of view that the Reformation has gradually come to be regarded as a new commencement rather than as a restoration of belief,—as a point of departure towards a higher and more enlightened faith rather than as a return to an ancient, imperfectly ascertained, and possibly obsolete standard.
But, by whichever of these aims the movement in favour of reformation was guided, the dominant conception has not unfrequently operated quite independently of the other two. Demands for reform of discipline not unfrequently resulted in disunion wr here disagreement with respect to doctrine did not exist. The further definition of already accepted doctrine, again, even when made in connexion with some minor article of belief and involving but an almost imperceptible divergence of interpretation, often proved productive of a serious schism where in questions of discipline there was perfect unanimity. The right of private judgment, when urged in contravention of any of the newly formulated standards of discipline or belief, involved an equally decisive rupture with those who recognized only the traditional sources of doctrine. It is evident, therefore, that the Reformation, when regarded from a fairly comprehensive point of view, must appear as a highly complex movement carrying in itself the elements of further controversy and conflict. Even the theory which would seem to afford the most satisfactory solution of its varied phenomena—that which teaches us to look upon it as a Teutonic revolt, intellectual no less than religious, against the traditions which the Latin Church in the course of centuries had invented and imposed on the faith and habits of thought of Western Christendom— often fails us as a clue to its widely different manifestations, and other disturbing causes seem to forbid the effort to refer them to any general principle. The character and policy of the reigning Roman pontiff, the jealousies and divergent interests of the several European states and the special aims of their several rulers, the spell winch imperial
institutions and traditions long continued to exercise over the minds of all but the most advanced and independent thinkers, are all important factors in the movement. If, however, wr e endeavour to assign the causes which prevented the Reformation from being carried even to but partial success long prior to the 16th century, we can have no difficulty in deciding that foremost among them must be placed the manner in which the mediaeval mind was fettered by a servile regard for precedent. To the men of the Middle Ages, whether educated or uneducated, no measure of reform seemed defensible which appeared in the light of an innovation. Precedent was the standard whereby every authority, lay or clerical, was held to be bound; and to this rule the only exceptions were a general council and the supreme pontiff. Even Gregory IX. or Clement V., when he assumed to promulgate additions to the existing code of the Universal Church, was understood to do so simply in his capacity of infallible expounder of essential and unalterable doctrine; w'hile no reform, how-ever seemingly expedient or however recommended by its abstract merits, was held to be justifiable if it could be shown to be in conflict with ancient and authoritative tradition. The Reformers themselves always maintained that the doctrines which they enforced rested on Scriptural precedent and primitive example. Their assertion wr as frequently challenged by their antagonists; and it may reasonably be doubted whether even Luther or Calvin could have commanded any considerable following had not their doctrinal teaching been combined with a demand for a reformation of discipline which rested on undeniable precedent, and to - which the circumstances of the time imparted new and irresistible force,—a force, however, which had been long accumulating and had been derived in no small measure from the blind obstinacy of the Roman see in times long antecedent.
The existence long before the 16th century of a strong] desire to bring about a reformation of discipline within the1  church itself is attested by evidence which it will suffice j to pass by with little more than an allusion. Among the j most notable instances are those afforded by the rise of the Dominican and Franciscan orders in the 13th century and of the Brethren of St Jerome (or the Brethren of the Common Life) in the 14th century,—efforts based upon general conviction, which resulted in spontaneous combinations. Similar in origin, though more strictly ecclesiastical in character, were the designs of the great councils which successively assembled at Pisa (1409), at Constance (1414), and at Basel (1431). Among those who were distinguished in these assemblies by their strenuous advocacy of reform, Pierre d’Ailly and his pupil Jean Charlier de Gerson, both successively chancellor of the university of Paris, and Nicholas de CRmenges, archdeacon of Bayeux, were especially conspicuous. Each alike upheld in the plainest language the superiority of a general council to the pope, and the obligation that rested on such a body to address itself to the task of church reform whenever the necessity might arise, and the supreme pontiff himself be found either incapable of such a labour or unwilling to initiate it. Of the widespread necessity for such reform, as shown by the condition of the clergy and the monasteries, the remarkable treatise by Nicholas de Clemenges,@@1  De Corrupto Ecelesix Statu, affords alone sufficient evidence. By Michelet@@2 this powerful tractate has been compared, for its vigour and the effect which it produced, to the De Captivitate Ecelesix Babylonica of Luther; and it is a striking proof of the deep-rooted corruption of the whole church that such flagrant abuses should have continued to exist for another century with little or no abatement.
@@@1    Or by Dietrich of Niem ; the authorship is disputed.
@@@2    Hist, de France, bk. viii. c. 3.
C16menges deplores in the strongest terms the state of the church in his day,—a condition of appalling degeneracy, which he ascribes mainly to the increase in wealth and luxury that had followed upon the development of a worldly spirit in its midst. His strictures leave no order or degree of either the ecclesiastical or the monastic life untouched,—the overwhelming ostentation of the Curia; the pride and rapacity of the cardinals, their immorality and addiction to simony ; the prevalence of the same vices among the episcopal order, filled with beardless youths, who, scarcely liberated from the dread of the schoolmaster’s ferule, hastened to assume the pastoral office; the lower clergy in general so sunk in vice and sloth that scarcely one in a thousand (“ vix inter mille unus ”) was to be found living a godly and sober life; the nunneries, which he declares were brothels rather than sanctuaries (“ non dico Dei sanctuaria, sed Veneris execranda prostibula ”). We can feel no surprise at finding that in the 16th century Clement VII. thought it necessary to place this burning diatribe by a great doctor of the church in the Index Ex-purgatorius. A few years later we find the evils to which Clemenges called attention emphasized by one of the most eminent ecclesiastics of the age, — the cardinal Julian Cesarini, when he was endeavouring to dissuade Pope Eugenius IV. from his design of dissolving the council of Basel (see Popedom, vol. xix. p. 502). In this letter he affirms that so strongly is popular feeling stirred against the clergy by their neglect of their duties and scandalously immoral lives that there is reason to fear that, if some remedy be pot devised, the whole fabric of the Roman Church may be overturned.@@1
The complete failure of these successive efforts to bring about any comprehensive measure of church reform is a familiar fact in European history. And not only were the evils which it was sought to abolish suffered to continue with but little abatement, but dissent even from the recognized discipline of the church was placed under a ban, and made, in common with dissent from doctrine, an offence punishable with the severest penalties. The mediaeval theory of the Roman hierarchy had indeed been reaffirmed by Eugenius IV. and his successors with a success which seemed almost to preclude the possibility of its ever being again challenged. But the main point here to be noted is that in none of these several efforts in the direction of reform, whether resulting from conciliar or popular action, was the doctrine of the church once called in question. The fate that overtook John Huss and Jerome of Prague appears to have been very generally regarded as a necessary example of just rigour in the suppression of heresy. We find, accordingly, that, when in the following century it was sought to associate the efforts of the reformers in the direction of doctrinal change with the efforts of a party within the church itself in the direction of disciplinary reform, the defenders of the traditional Catholic faith challenged the assumed precedent and altogether denied the parallel. “ It is,” wrote Bossuet in the 17th cen+ ury, “an obvious illusion; for among all the passages which they adduce there is not one in which those teachers have ever dreamed of changing the belief of the church, of amending its worship, which consisted chiefly in the sacrifice of the mass, or of overthrowing the authority of her prelates and especially that of the pope, all which was the primary design of this new reformation of which Luther was the architect.” @@2 It is not easy to gainsay the reasonableness of Bossuet’s criticism. It was the fundamental theory of ' the Reformation that it involved the setting aside of the development given in mediaeval times to the doctrines and teaching of the early church, and proposed to substitute for these a totally different interpretation, which rejected the successive decisions of councils and popes as arbitrary and erroneous. Such a theory, however, necessarily imposed on the Reformers the task of proving the validity of their own position, by showing that their repudiation of a practice and of precedents which had been accepted for so many centuries was justified by an appeal to yet more ancient and unquestionable authority. If indeed they failed in so doing, they must look forward to sinking in the estimation of Christendom to the level of heretics, and be prepared to stand before posterity in the same category as the Arians, the Albigenses, the Lollards, and the Hussites, and those other sects which, by their unwarranted assertion of the right of private interpretation, had provoked and incurred the formal condemnation of the church. It is not within the scope of this article to attempt to estimate the justice of the theological arguments by which the Reformers sought to vindicate their position; but there is good reason for concluding that the argumentative powers and personal influence of Luther and Calvin would have failed, just as the efforts of preceding reformers had failed, in effecting the desired result, had not the conditions and circumstances of the age been such as to lend new force to the arguments which they urged in favour of a fundamental change in the standpoint of religious faith.
@@@1 “ Dissolutio cleri Alemanniæ, ex qua laici supra modum irritantur adversus statum ecclesiasticurn . . . inclinatus est arbor ut cadat, nec potest diutius persistere.” See Æn. Sylvius, Opera (ed. 1551), pp. 66, 70.    @@@2 Œuvres (1865), ii. 303.
The most notable feature in connexion with traditional belief which challenges our attention at the commencement of the 16th century is the manner in which the popedom was becoming less and less in harmony with the spirit of the age, and with those new forces which were now developing in the midst of Teutonism. The intolerance of the church in the repression of heresy had become more pronounced and was pressing with increasing rigour on free thought, when, owing to the influences of the New Learning, that thought was everywhere on the point of seeking to break through the traditional trammels; the corruption of the Curia and of both the regular and the secular clergy, the extension of the temporal power of the pontiffs in Italy, and the extortion of their emissaries in other countries had reached a climax just as, owing to the more independent spirit generated by the consolidation of the nationalities, the ruler and the people in each kingdom or principality were becoming increasingly impatient of the existence of such abuses. A brief consideration of these several features becomes, accordingly, quite indispensable, if we wish rightly to comprehend the forces at work in Europe at the time when the Reformers arose to combine them and give them more definite direction.
Not a few, and some very memorable, efforts had been made before the 16th century to bring about a reformation of doctrine, but these had almost invariably been promptly visited with the censure of the church. Long after the “ heresies ” of the 4th century had died away and after the controversies of the turbulent 9th century—such as those on the Eucharist between Paschasius Radbertus and Ratramnus, and on predestination between John Scotus Erigena and Gottschalk—had been silenced by the decisions of the pontiffs, we find movements arising, which, however much they differ in other characteristics, all attest the existence of a widespread desire among large sections of the community to revert to a simpler form of i־eligious belief and practice. The Paulicians (or Manichaeans of the East), the Albigenses (or Manichaeans of the West), the Waldenses, the Cathari, and the Leonists (or Poor Men of Lyons)—sects which made their appearance mainly in the 12th and 13th centuries, and for the most part in Switzerland, Languedoc, and northern France—the
Lollards in England and the Hussites in Bohemia, may be looked upon as the ancestors in faith of the Huguenots and the Puritans of after-times, and were all more or less characterized by an aversion to the Roman ritual, to splendid churches, to crosses and crucifixes, combined with a more definite denial of such doctrines as that of baptismal regeneration, of transubstantiation, of masses for the dead, and of the obligation to observe Lent. The ultimate fate of these different sects was singularly similar. Of their earlier history, indeed, we have but few memorials, for their records, if any existed, have mostly perished; and, as with their prototypes in the earlier Christian centuries, it became almost necessarily their policy to avoid all external demonstrations which would be likely to arrest the attention of the world. An inquisitor of the 13th century, when describing the Leonists (c. 1250), whom he speaks of as both the most ancient and the most widely spread of the sects then existing, represents them as by no means guilty, to all external appearance, of practices which could fairly be stigmatized as blasphemous, but as wearing a great semblance of piety, as being of good repute among their neighbours, and chiefly blamable as given to speaking against the Roman Church and its clergy and thus gaining, only too easily, the ears of the laity at large.@@1 To such characteristics, however, the Albi-genses in the 12th century had presented a remarkable exception. At the commencement of the pontificate of Innocent III. (1198) his legates had found nearly the whole of the rich and prosperous territory extending from Carcassonne to Bordeaux dominated by this powerful heresy,—a form of doctrine associated, moreover, not with austerity but with voluptuousness of life, with a profound contempt for the priestly profession, and with a warm admiration for the conceptions of chivalry and the poetry of the troubadour,—a heresy enriched by the devotion of its adherents to an extent which made it far wealthier than the church itself in those regions, and before which the representatives of the Roman orthodoxy seemed threatened almost with extinction. The suppression of this heresy by Simon de Montfort is a well-known episode, and would seem to have formed the point of departure for a new and more rigorous policy on the part of the church in its dealings Avith like manifestations of disobedience. In the year 1229 the statutes of the council of Toulouse formulated, as it were, the code of persecution, and, aided by the Inquisition, which probably took its rise about the same time, supplied a new machinery for the detection and suppression of heresy. To the terrorism thus established, after the sword of De Montfort had done its work, we may fairly refer the changed characteristics of the adherents of the heresies in France, as above described, in the middle of the 13th century.
! But, the suspicions of the church having once been thoroughly roused and the secular power incited and guided to its task, external conformity and inoffensive life, the mountain hamlet and the secluded valley, proved alike unavailing to avert the cruelty of the persecutor. The Cathari in Italy did not long survive the fall of the Holien-staufens, from whom they had received effective protection and support; and it added not a little to the offence of the doctrines proclaimed by the Spiritual Franciscans, whose tenets were condemned by the council of Vienne in 1311, that, while the order had taken its rise in a spirit of protest against the corruptions of the Curia, its members were known to be ready to favour and aid by all the means in their power the restoration of the imperial ascendency in Italy. The Spiritual Franciscans were the forerunners of the Apostolic Brethren, one of the most widely spread of the new sects, and must also be looked
upon as the precursors of the Lollards. The intimate connexion between theological doctrine and political opinion that existed among the latter sect is Avell known. We find, accordingly, that heresy, long before Reformation times, was regarded by the papal power as associated with hostile political interests, and that a new incentive to its rigorous suppression was thus supplied.
On the other hand, the popedom itself, during the long sojourn of the pontiffs at Avignon (1309-78), became involved in a political alliance, whereby it alienated the sympathies of Europe at large to an extent which it was never afterwards able to regain. During that long and humiliating episode in its history the office was filled almost exclusively by Frenchmen, whose policy was conceived in complete subservience to that of the reigning French monarch; and the pontiff at Avignon thus came to be regarded both by the empire and in England as the pliant ally of a hostile pqwer. During the following century it recovered much of its influence in Germany, where its pretensions were sometimes regarded not unfavourably by the electors as an equipoise to the too despotic sway of the emperor. Somewhat later we find it receiving the most efficient support from Spain. But it could never again command the same universal deference in Western Christendom; and the apparently genuine devotion to its interests which may from time to time be discerned manifesting itself, now in one nation and now in another, was largely inspired by political considerations, and often dearly purchased at the expense of a corresponding hostility provoked among another people.
To the manner in which theological tenets, often purely speculative in their origin and innocuous in their bearing upon practice, thus came to be regarded as identified with secular questions of grave import and pressing for an immediate solution, we must partly attribute the jealousy with which the first symptoms of heresy were now watched for by Rome. Early in the 14th century the Fraticelli and the Apostolic Brethren, with other heretical sects, were anathematized. In the year 1324 Pope John XXII. demanded of the emperor the suppression of the Waldenses,@@2  who had reappeared in Lombardy; and, ably as Marsilius of Padua assailed the pretensions of the papacy, his protest seemed ineffectual amid the supreme humiliation of his patron, Louis of Bavaria. Driven alike from Italy and from France, the persecuted sect took refuge in Savoy and in Switzerland, and in the year 1489 the papal legate reported that their numbers were not less than 50,000. Lollardism was suppressed with unsparing hand in England; and John Sawtrey, the first of Wikliffe’s followers to suffer martyrdom, was burnt to death in 1401, for refusing to worship the cross and for denial of the doctrine of transubstantiation. Fifteen years later John Huss and Jerome of Prague suffered the same fate at Constance, and the indignation excited among their fellow-countrymen, intensified as this feeling was by differences of race, gave rise to a memorable resistance, which eventually won religious freedom for the land. At the diet of Kutna Hora (Kuttenberg) in 1485 a truce was made between the Utraquists and the Catholics for thirty-two years, and the complete religious equality then established was made permanent at the diet of 1512. In England, on the other hand, the Lollard movement was almost completely extinguished. The political doctrines with which it had become associated made it the object of suspicion alike to the ecclesiastical and to the civil power ; and Sir John
@@@1 Max. Bibl. Patrum (1676), vol. xxv. p. 264.
@@@2 They were not, however, known under this name ; in the 15th and at the commencement of the 16th century they never so styled themselves, and were rarely so styled by others. The name by which they were known among themselves was that of “The Brethren.” See Ludwig Keller, Die R/’fonnution und die alteren Re/ormparleien (1885), p. 296.
Oldcastle, its chief leader, although he suffered martyrdom, altogether failed to win the popularity or the reverence which waited on the memories of the two Hussite leaders. The religious tenets of his followers were not, indeed, altogether suppressed, and continued to command a certain following down to the 16th century. As a tradition, however, they would seem to have survived in connexion with the early English Puritanism rather than with the Reformation; while between the Hussite movement and the Reformation the connexion is unquestionable and was recognized by Luther himself.
r During the very time that the Roman pontiffs were
׳· wielding thus effectually the weapons of bigotry and persecution against all manifestations of independent religious thought, their influence and patronage were largely given to the fostering of other influences, which ultimately proved highly favourable to that very freedom of judgment and of philosophic speculation which the Roman see has invariably sought to suppress. The relations in which the “New Learning,” as it was then called, is to be found successively standing to the representatives of orthodox belief constitute an interesting and instructive study. At one time Greek had been held in reverence as the official language of the Roman Church; but, from the period when the popes were first enabled to shake off the yoke of the Eastern emperor in Italy, the use of the Greek language had been discontinued, its literature placed under a ban, and the study of both systematically discouraged in Western Christendom. Then came the Renaissance; and under the patronage of pontiffs like Nicholas Y. (1447-1455), and cardinals like Julian and Bessarion, Greek became as much in favour at the Curia as it had before been discredited. At first it seemed not improbable that this literary revolution might prove a powerful aid not only in promoting Christian culture but in diffusing a more genuinely Christian and catholic spirit. While eminent ecclesiastics sought to bring about the reconciliation of the churches of the East and West, original thinkers like Pius II. and Maffeus Vegius put forth views on the whole subject of education which involved a decisive rupture with the traditions of mediaevalism. It is unnecessary to describe the manner in which this promising future became overclouded ; how learning in Italy became associated at once with scepticism and immorality; and how men of letters like Politian and Poggio and Bembo and Beccadelli, under the favour of pontiffs like Leo X., at once scandalized the devout and amused the fancy of the polite scholar. “ This fable of Christ has been to us a source of great gain,” a cardinal at the Vatican was overheard to observe. Such a tone of feeling, however, was not consonant with the spirit of the persecutor, and if the religions spirit was shocked by profanity it was less disgraced by bigotry. Earnestness of conviction was derided and disbelieved in; and the prevalent sentiments at the Curia at the outbreak of the Reformation were those of idle and careless security. Signs, however, were not wanting to provo to a later generation how little that false security was justifiable. Foremost among those who advocated reform and a policy of reconciliation in the first half of the 15th century was Nicolas de Cusa, who, though German by birth, embraced with ardour the schemes projected for the regeneration of Italy and of the church at large. Neither Pius II. nor Nicholas V., who alike promoted him a,nd honoured him, appears to have discerned the dangerous element that lurked in his bold spirit of inquiry. From Cusa, however, Laurentius Valla derived the guidance which led him on to his memorable attack on the fiction of the Donation of Constantine, and to that more general investigation of the claims of the popedom which marks the commencement of the historical scepticism which now began to develop with such startling results. To Valla succeeded Gregory of Heimburg, who exposed the papal pretensions with equal vigour, and made it for the first time apparent how formidable a weapon the New Learning might prove in the defence of those imperial and popular rights in Germany which Rome at that time contemptuously ignored. The conflict between Heimburg and Eugenius IV. foreshadowed, indeed, the greater contest between the Teutonic and the Latin power, and Heimburg has more than once been designated the prototype of Ulrich von Hutten.
In the whole history of the Reformation, and of the period by which it was immediately preceded, the political relations of the popedom to the other European powers and more especially to Germany, constitute, in fact, elements of primary importance. In the latter part of the 15th century those relations were still further embittered by the personal character and aims of the reigning pontiffs. At the very time when the existence of the popedom as a temporal power was menaced by the rising spirit of innovation, the reverence and sympathy of Europe were still further alienated by the spectacle of the career of Alexander VI. and of his end,—the result, it was commonly reported, of the poison which he had designed for the destruction of another. The character of his successor, Julius II. (1503-1513), might well seem virtuous by comparison; but at no period in the history of the pontificate does its religious character seem more completely lost sight of in purely secular interests. It had long before (see Popedom) been the aim of each more ambitious pope to become a great territorial prince and thus to lay the foundation of the private fortunes of his house. But Julius aimed at something more than this,—at the assertion of political supremacy throughout Italy and of the right to rank with the great powers of Europe as wielding at once material resources but little inferior to theirs, and as commanding a widespread organization to the like of which not one of them could aspire. Such were the objects to which his untiring energies were systematically directed. Within four years of his accession he had added Perugia and Bologna to the possessions of the church, and from Piacenza to Terracina his sway extended over all the great strongholds and the most fertile territory; even the great powers of France and Spain, notwithstanding their newly consolidated strength, could not but regard with jealousy and apprehension his genius and his policy. “Before,” wrote Machiavelli, “there was no baron so petty as not to look with contempt on that popedom which now even a king of France regards with respect.” The means by which this remarkable change was effected involved, however, a recourse to fiscal expedients which eventually proved eminently detrimental to the Roman see;@@1 while for nearly a quarter of a century we find the policy of the great powers in relation to Rome almost entirely determined by purely political considerations and Italy itself becoming the arena of their contending ambitions. In the year 1494 Charles VIII. of France effected his memorable passage of the Alps to grasp the crown of Naples. It was currently believed that he had been incited to the enterprise by Alexander VI. himself,—a circumstance which alone suffices to explain the failure which attended that pontiff’s efforts when he subsequently sought to prevail upon the invader to submit his claims to the arbitration of the holy see. In the year 1508 the invasion
@@@1 “Sub quibus” (i.e., Alexander YI. and Julius II.) “etiam in negotiatione prebendaría multae novae technae repertae sunt ad pecunias undique corradendas, et ab illis receptae sunt approbataeque, magis fisci quam Christi rem agentibus." See the remarkable letter of Eubulus Cordatius to Montesius, prefixed to the reprints of the Treatises of Nicolas de Clémenges, ed. 1519.
by the emperor Maximilian I. took place, with the object of re-establishing the imperial supremacy in Italy,—an expedition which was in some respects the counterpart of that of Charles, and to which Julius II. opposed a vacillating policy not unlike that of his predecessor. To the expedition of Maximilian succeeded the league of Cambray, designed to humble the republic of Venice, and warmly supported by Julius II. as a means whereby to gratify his resentment at the resistance offered by that powerful state to the encroachments of the popedom. No sooner was Venice sufficiently humiliated than Julius proceeded to concert measures for carrying out the great object of his ambition,—the expulsion of the foreigner from Italy. Never before had the aims of the papacy seemed so completely in conflict with those of every European power.
In France, Louis XII., on appealing to the representatives of the Gallican Church (council of Tours, September 1510), soon found that national feeling entirely prevailed over Ultramontane sympathies, and that he might count on their effectual support. Notwithstanding, therefore, the remonstrances of his devout consort, Anne of Brittany, he resolved upon a vigorous anti-papal policy. In concert with the emperor Maximilian, he revived the long-dormant demand for a general council; and a mimic assembly, consisting of four cardinals, twenty Gallican prelates, certain abbots and other dignitaries, was actually convened at Pisa in 1511. In this extremity Julius exhibited his usual fertility of resource by organizing the Holy League, and thus inducing Ferdinand of Aragon and the Venetians to combine with him in opposing the designs of schismatic France. The council, transferred to Milan, issued from thence in April 1512 an edict suspending Julius from all pontifical functions as a “ notorious disturber of the council, the author of schism, contumacious, incorrigible, hardened ” (Raynaldus, sub ann.). The pontiff thereupon excommunicated Louis XII., who rejoined by a formal protest and by causing coins to be struck and circulated bearing the arms of France and the ominous inscription Perdam Babylonis nomen. In the meantime the fifth Lateran council, the rival council convened by Julius, commenced its sittings (May 1512), and forthwith declared the acts of the assembly held at Milan to be those of a schismatical body, while it proceeded to confirm the papal censure on the king of France. The expulsion of the French from Italy, after the fall of their heroic leader, Gaston de Foix, seemed to threaten only a further widening of the schism, when the death of Julius in 1513 opened the door for negotiation—an opportunity of which Louis eagerly availed himself—while the pliant disposition of the new pontiff, Leo X. (1513-1521), afforded additional facilities for arriving at an agreement. The French monarch now disavowed the proceedings of the council which he had before supported, and acknowledged the validity of the acts of the council at the Lateran. Other points were still under discussion when Louis died and was succeeded by Francis I., January 1515.
In the following year the Catholic king Ferdinand of Aragon died. The relations of Spain to the papacy during . his reign and before that time had been very far from representing a policy of complete subserviency. By a concordat made in the year 1482 Pope Sixtus IV. had conceded to the sovereigns of Castile and Aragon the right of nominating to the higher ecclesiastical offices, although he had reserved to himself a corresponding power in connexion with the inferior benefices,—a privilege which soon resulted in the customary abuses and rendered the papal supremacy for a time scarcely more popular in Spain than in Germany. At nearly the same time the institution of the Inquisition in the former country is generally supposed to have first taken place (see Inquisition),—an event which must not, however, be construed into a proof of the ascendency of papal influence. In its earlier stage the Inquisition was quite as much a civil as an ecclesiastical tribunal, being especially directed against the exclusive privileges and immunities claimed by the hereditary nobility; and, although under Cardinal Ximenes the repression of heresy became one of its chief functions, it was long regarded with no friendly feelings by Rome. The Roman doctrine and discipline were rigorously imposed on the Spanish population, but Ferdinand himself showed little disposition to submit to the dictation of the Roman pontiff. In the year 1508 he sharply rebuked his viceroy, the count of Rivarzoga, for allowing a papal bull to be promulgated in the provinces without having previously obtained his sanction, and declared that if the bull were not forthwith withdrawn he would withdraw the two crowns from the obedience of the holy see. Five years later Cardinal Xinienes, in a like spirit, openly denounced the abuses that accompanied the traffic in indulgences.
The tone that Germany at this period wr as able to! assume was very different. The several states and princi- * palities, feebly protected by the imperial authority, which 1  could no longer be asserted as of yore, yielded an easy prey to the extortion of the papal emissaries. The national clergy, perhaps more corrupt than in any other Teutonic country, showed themselves completely subservient to the worst malpractices of Rome. It was from the laity at large that the first warning came that either reform or revolution must before long ensue. In the year 1511 a notable document, purporting to emanate from the German people at large, was laid before the emperor. Drawn up in the form of a petition, it enumerated and described the various abuses associated with the prevailing ecclesiastical practice and suggested the remedies. Foremost among the specified grievances it placed the utter want of good faith shown by successive pontiffs in the manner in which they were accustomed altogether to disregard (often at the instance of most unworthy favourites) the privileges and immunities solemnly granted by their predecessors. It complained of the frequent nullifying of the elections of prelates canonically elected by their respective chapters, of a like disregard for such elections even in cases where large sums had been paid to the Curia by the chapters in order to secure the ratification of their choice, of the manner in which all the richest benefices were reserved for cardinals and proto-notaries, of the frequent anticipation of reversions (expectativse gratise) and of the concentration of numerous benefices in the hands of single individuals, of the incessant lawsuits generated by these malpractices and the consequent waste of considerable sums both on the lawsuits themselves and on the obtaining of bulls which eventually proved inoperative, —“so that,” said the petitioners, “it has become a common saying that, on obtaining a reversion from Rome, one ought to lay by one or two hundred gold pieces wherewith to defend the actions to which the maintenance of one’s rights will infallibly give rise.” Other matters of complaint were the frequency with which annates were demanded; the bestowal of livings on those utterly incompetent for the discharge of their duties,—“ fitter,” in fact, “to be muleteers than to be the instructors of their fellow-men”; the frequent issuing of new indulgences and revocation of the old, notwithstanding the repeated remonstrances of the laity; the levying of tenths under pretext of an expedition against the Turks when no such expedition was designed ; and the petition closed with the complaint, which had been rife almost ever since the days of Hilary of Arles, of the continual summoning of suits
to Rome which could be as satisfactorily and far more promptly decided before the national tribunals.@@1  ! While the popular feeling in Germany was being thus effectually alienated from the papal see, the learning of Germany was also pursuing that ominous track, first delineated by Gregory of Heimburg, which marks its complete divergence from the Italian humanism. The names of Johann von Goch (d. 1475), Johann Wessel (d. 1489), Johann Reuchlin (d. 1522), and Erasmus stand associated, although in different ways, with a great movement which, by attacking at once the doctrine and the discipline of the church, opened up the way for Luther. Goch and Wessel were among the first to give systematic form to the opposition to the existing ecclesiastical system, and their criticism included both popes and councils as ultimate authorities in matters of faith. They inveighed with especial force against the doctrines of indulgences, veneration of saints, and purgatory, and they denied that confession, the Lord’s Supper, and extreme unction were to be regarded as sacraments of divine institution. During the years 1511 to 1516 Reuchlin carried on a memorable struggle against the monks of Cologne in defence of the New Learning and of improved canons of textual criticism. In the year 1516 Erasmus put forth the first edition of his Novum Instrumentum. Side by side with these more elaborate efforts there was going on another literary movement which in its influence on the popular mind was not less considerable. Ever since the days of the early Lollards satire had been found a not altogether ineffectual weapon in assailing those abuses in the church which argument and remonstrance seemed powerless to reform. The Praise of Folly, from the pen of Erasmus, which appeared in 1511, seconded the graver efforts of Reuchlin, and successfully held up to ridicule those monastic orders of whose greed and dull obstructive activity Germany was already so weary. But even this brilliant effort paled in its effects when compared with the Epistoloe Obscurorum Virorum, which appeared in 1515-16. These letters, of which Ulrich von Hutten and his friend Crotus Rubianus were the principal authors, were a series of broadly humorous fabrications, purporting to be written by members of the obscurantist party themselves. A more skilful mode of exposing the ignorance and imbecility of thought which characterized the average intelligence of the monks of those days could hardly have been devised; and the success of the artifice appeared complete when it became known that certain stolid monks had been led to approve the volume and even aid in its circulation as a genuine and valid defence of the views which they upheld.
These effective demonstrations, it is to be noted, were not merely the outcome of that widespread discontent above described, but resemble rather a series of sparks elicited by immediate contact between the German mind and Rome; and it is of no little interest to mark the effect produced on three of the most eminent representatives of the new movement by their visit, within a few years of each other, to the capital and by the contemplation of the splendour of the Curia and the moral degrada-> tion of its members. Of these three observers the first )f was Erasmus, who visited the capital in 1506. His lively s ’sense of the incongruous was not a little excited by the spectacle of the warlike pontiff, Julius II., whom, in his Praise of Folly, written a few years later, he describes as subverting alike the laws, peace, and religion. But Erasmus himself does not appear to have been greatly scandalized. He affects, indeed, to be somewhat uncertain whether it is Germany that has copied Rome or whether Rome has not rather copied a certain class of German prelates, who seem to look upon the battlefield as the fitting place where to render up their souls to God. Somewhat later, writing in a graver mood, he declares that nothing will ever efface his more pleasing recollections of the great city,—its freedom of discourse, its intellectual illumination, its works of art, its libraries, and its scholars. Four years after Erasmus came an Augustinian monk from Erfurt, full of reverence for the traditions, the grandeur, and the sanctity of Rome. Martin Luther appears to have been less struck than was Erasmus by the unpriestly character of Julius II., who, as he admits, maintained order and watched over the sanitary condition of the Sacred City. But he was shocked beyond measure by the corruption, the profanity, and the immoral lives of the Roman clergy. The fond illusion of his monastic life was at an end; and he returned to Germany not only prepared to counsel resistance to papal extortion but shaken in his whole allegiance to the holy see. A few months after Luther came Ulrich von Hutten. It ־would be difficult to select a better representative of the temper and feeling of the higher classes in Germany at that time. To pride of birth and devotion to the New Learning he united a love of adventure which no physical suffering or misfortune seemed able to subdue, and a chivalrous spirit which could but impatiently brook the assertion of even legitimate authority. Already burning with resentment at the systematic extortion to which his countrymen were subjected, his feelings were still further intensified as he listened to the contemptuous language and observed the supercilious demeanour which marked the Roman estimate of those who bore the German name. He heard from an eye-witness a description of Julius II. as that pontiff had presented himself to the world at the siege of Mirandola, with “wild eye, brazen front, and threatening mien.” On his return to his fatherland Hutten condensed into epigrammatic Latin verse, beside the suppressed fury of which the polished satire of Erasmus seems to pale, a description of what he had seen and heard, and denounced with terrible effect the wdiole system of bulls, indulgences, and other devices whereby an avaricious prelate was wringing dishonest gains from a long-suffering nation. Few literary assailants have ever possessed a greater power of irritating an antagonist than did Ulrich von Hutten, and considerations of generosity or expediency rarely deterred him. It was generally expected when Leo X. ascended the pontifical throne that he would be anxious to sheathe the sword which his predecessor had wielded so vigorously, and his countrymen already hailed him as the “ restorer of peace.” By that epithet Hutten too vouchsafed to address him, but it was in a dedication to the pontiff of p, reprint of Laurentius Valla’s Treatise on the Donation of Constantine, and the seeming act of homage was thus artfully appended to pages exceptionally calculated to wound the papal susceptibilities.
@@@1 See “ Gravamina Germanic« Nationis cum Remediis et Avisa-mentis ad Caesarem Maximilianum,” in Freherus, Germanicarum Rerum Scriptores, ii. 313. The existence of such grievances and their nonredress may serve partly to explain the obduracy with which the subjects of the empire received the simultaneous proposals of Maximilian in the direction of state - reform. See Janssen, Gesch. d. deutschen Volkes, i. 557-561. Janssen, it may be observed, makes no reference to the document above cited.
It must, however, be admitted that the character of the German episcopate at this time was such that it scarcely appeared to advantage even when compared with that of the ecclesiastics of the Roman Curia. Its members were generally scions of princely houses, caring little for the spiritual interests of their dioceses, but delighting in field sports and martial exercises, given to building palaces for their owr n residence rather than to the erection of churches, and often without the slightest tincture of learning. Their primate at this time w־as Albert, brother of the elector of Brandenburg, archbishop of Mainz and Magde
burg, a young and ambitious voluptuary, caring for little but pleasure and display. On the great prelates the extortion of Rome sometimes fell not less heavily than on the laity; and the archbishop, before he could receive his pallium, was called upon to pay the sum of 30,000 gulden into the papal exchequer. Leo X. was at that time intent on carrying out the great design of his predecessor, the rebuilding of St Peter’s. It has been observed by Palla-vicino that the millions devoted to the erection of the material church were acquired at the cost of many more millions to the spiritual church. Leo proclaimed a fresh issue of indulgences, and the archbishop Albert was appointed his commissioner to carry out the sale in a large portion of Germany. He seized the occasion to prevail upon the pope to allow him to appropriate one half of the money collected for the indulgences in order to pay for his pallium. As his chief agent in the sale he imprudently selected one Tetzel, a Dominican friar, whose unscrupulousness in such work was so notorious that the papal collector at Mainz refused to employ him. In the course of his progress Tetzel came to Jiiterbogk, near Wittenberg, and his superstitious traffic and the impudent devices which he employed to cajole the people were thus brought directly under the notice of Luther. The young professor seized the opportunity of directing the attention of the university, where he was already highly popular, to the abuses associated with the sale of indulgences. He did not as yet impugn the doctrine of indulgences itself, and he expressed his conviction that their good father the pope must be altogether unaware of the extent to which such abuses were allowed to prevail. His celebrated theses were forwarded by himself to the archbishop, as well as to the elector of Saxony, his patron, and also the munificent founder of the university. The elector, who had seen with no slight dissatisfaction the manner in which his provinces were being plundered in order to pay for the extravagance of a neighbouring prelate, extended his protection to the courageous polemic, and Luther thus gained the all-precious interval of freedom from molestation which enabled him to compose the memorable treatises whereby he produced such an immense effect on the minds and consciences of his countrymen. The nailing of his theses to the door of the church at Wittenberg, it is to be noted, was a very common method of procedure on the part of a university disputant; and nearly a year passed away before the events which so deeply agitated Wittenberg were recognized in their full importance by the world at large. Luther himself, indeed, in his notable letter to Leo X., written in 1518, tells us@@1 that, contrary to his wishes, his theses were translated into German, and circulated throughout the nation, and that his antagonists declared that he had set the world in flames. But.in this language there is evidently something of exaggeration. Some two months after the appearance of Luther’s theses Tetzel, by way of rejoinder, published at the university of Frankfort-on־the-Oder a hundred and six anti-theses, and these were subsequently burnt by the students of Wittenberg in the market-place. To Leo, however, the vague reports that reached Rome conveyed only the impression of a dispute between the two monastic orders of which Luther and Tetzel were respectively the representatives. He declared that Luther was a man of genius, and refused to interfere. Even Ulrich von Hutten, at that time residing not far from Wittenberg, seems to have shared in this misapprehension, and, writing to his patron, he expresses the hope that the two contending parties may eventually tear each other to pieces.
But in the course of a few months the importance of the struggle began to be more clearly apprehended. John Eck
@@@1 Werke, ed. 1883, i. 528.
of Ingoldstadt drew attention to the resemblance between Lu the doctrines put forth in the theses and those of therel  Hussites, and at the mention of that undoubted heresy not " a few of Luther’s supporters recoiled. His conduct was * J  certainly not wanting in astuteness, however genuine his enthusiasm. In 1518 he republished his theses, with additions and explanations, under the title of Solutions. Like Hutten, he selected the supreme pontiff himself as the person to whom he dedicated the treatise. In the letter of dedication (the letter above referred to) he professes to make his unqualified submission to him whom he addresses, and at the same time endeavours to exculpate himself for thus republishing the theses. Notwithstanding the popular form, the vernacular language, in which they had already appeared, they were still so encumbered with the technicalities of the schools that he could not conceive how they could be intelligible to the laity at large (“sic editae ut mihi incredibile sit eas ab omnibus intelligi ”). He was therefore anxious, with the pontiff’s sanction and approval, to republish them in a form less liable to misinterpretation. If, however, that sanction were withheld, he could only bow to Leo’s decision as to that of God’s vicegerent on earth (“ vocem tuam vocem Christ! in te praesidentis et loquentis agnoscam ”). While Luther was thus labouring under misapprehension, affected or real, with respect to the kind of doctrinal teaching that was likely to find favour in Rome, it would seem that Leo himself was very imperfectly informed regarding the state of feeling in Germany. The conditions which moulded his political action and his personal sympathies alike tended to distract his attention from the events which had recently been occurring in Saxony. The representative of a princely house, well versed in European affairs and in questions of statecraft, gifted with more than an ordinary share of Italian subtlety and powers of dissimulation, he was well qualified to cope with the difficulties by which he found himself surrounded. But his aims, chief among which was his desire to establish his brother Julian on the throne of Naples, were directed more to family aggrandizement than to national unity. They ran strongly counter to the growth of Spanish influence, while with that stern policy which guided the rule of Ximenes, dictated by the desire to restore mediaeval doctrine and discipline and to suppress heresy, he had no sympathy. The ecclesiastic was almost lost in the patron of the arts, the urbane and polished scholar and voluptuary, the admirer of wit and epigram. In politics it was his main purpose to trim the balance between France and Spain; in church matters it was chiefly to stifle controversy. So indifferent was he to German affairs, and so little cognizant of the state of feeling among the people, that at the very moment when irritation at the extortion of his emissaries was at its height, and the fraudulent nature of that extortion had been thus ably exposed by Luther, he conceived it to be a suitable time for levying a contribution throughout the empire under pretext of an expedition against the Turks. The proposal roused a spirit of opposition even among the clergy themselves; and one of their number, a prebendary at Würzburg, issued a manifesto, in the form of a pamphlet, in which he roundly declared that the true Turks were to be found in Italy. This pamphlet fell into Luther’s hands, and with the instinct of genius he recognized the opportunity afforded by such a state of feeling for an appeal to a wider audience than he had hitherto addressed. He now took his stand as the denouncer both of abuses in the matter of discipline and of the extortion and oppression under which his countrymen laboured. And from that day to the day of his death he filled a ¡)lace in their affection and esteem to which no other of their leaders could make pretence. The turning-point in his public career is marked by his appearance at
which he formally intimated his repudiation of the decrees and canons of the church. Such a measure necessarily roused the opposition of those learned bodies by whom the canon law was taught and elaborated, and on 21st April 1521 the university of Paris condemned as “heretical, schismatical, impious, and blasphemous ” more than a hundred propositions extracted from Luther’s writings; while, skilfully following up the line of attack · indicated by the supreme pontiff, they enlarged upon the view that Lutheranism was little more than a specious reproduction of errors long ago proscribed and exploded. The university at the same time decreed that Luther’s writings should be burnt; and the sentence was subsequently carried into effect in most of the capitals of Europe. In London the ceremony was performed at Paul’s Cross on the 12th May, and Bishop Fisher in his sermon on the occasion declared that Luther by burning the decretals had made it clear that he would not have hesitated to burn the pope himself had the latter been in his power.
The Reformation in England had, however, already commenced, and its origin must be looked upon as in a great measure independent of the Lutheran movement; as in Germany, it had been preceded by a kindred movement, an endeavour to bring about a reform of discipline. The nation was not compelled, as in Italy, to witness the corruptions of the papal court, nor were the laity equally oppressed with the people of Germany by imposts and exactions of every kind. But the unsparing extortion practised by Wolsey’s agents after his appointment as legatus a latere was severely resented, and appeared all the more grievous when contrasted with that immunity from arbitrary taxation which it was the Englishman’s special boast to inherit as his birthright; and the arbitrary procedure of the ecclesiastical courts and the licentious lives of the clergy were the subjects of loud and continual complaint. In the year 1514 the notable case of Richard Hunne roused popular indignation to the highest pitch. He had been so bold as to resist what he regarded as an unjust exaction of mortuary fees, by pleading in the ecclesiastical court that the action brought against him was unlawful by the Statute of Praemunire,—a plea which virtually raised the whole question of benefit of clergy. Hunne was committed to the Lollards’ Tower and was shortly after found dead,—murdered, as it was popularly believed, by the contrivance of the chancellor of the bishop of London. The case gave rise to a fierce legal controversy, in which the authority of an Act of Parliament was opposed by the precedents established by a decretal of the church. It was followed by the memorable trial of Dr Standish (1515), by which the question of the royal supremacy was distinctly raised, and Henry himself not improbably led to conceive that theory of his legitimate authority in matters ecclesiastical which was afterwards attended with such important results. The state of discipline among the clergy at large was but little, if any, better than in Germany, and their addiction to secular pursuits and pleasures, their covetousness, ambition, and licentiousness are attested not only by satirists like Roy and Skelton, but by grave and temperate censors such as Dean Colet, Archbishop Warham, Bishop Fisher, and Sir Thomas More, and form the subject of their earnest remonstrance and appeals for reform. Wolsey himself, than whom no statesman more clearly discerned the tendencies of the age, was especially anxious to raise the reputation of the whole body for learning and exemplary lives, and it was with this view that he founded Cardinal College (afterwards Christ Church) at Oxford, and invited some of the most promising young scholars at Cambridge to become instructors within its walls.
It is also in connexion with the two universities that
Augsburg before the papal legate Cajetan and his subsequent flight from the city. In the disputation at Leipsic he could go so far as to repudiate the divine institution of the papacy and even pronounce against the infallibility of councils. He was still further confirmed in his doctrinal divergence by the influence of Melanchthon, who now began to call in question the doctrine of transubstantiation ; and Valla’s Treatise on the Donation of Constantine, with which he first became acquainted in February 1520, would seem to have dispelled the last vestige of doubt in his mind with respect to the essential falsity of the claims of the papacy to temporal power. The contrast now presented by the tone and language of his writings to that of his letter to Leo, written two years before, is startling. In the month of April 1520 appeared his discourse De Libertóte Christiana, inveighing against the abuses of the Curia and referring to Leo himself in terms of open irony. To this succeeded in the following August his appeal, written in the vernacular German, “ To the Christian nobility of the German nation,” wherein he frankly confesses that his reliance is upon none of the ecclesiastical orders, but upon the newly-elected young emperor and the nobles; and he reiterates his demand for a general council,—one that shall be really free, bound by no arbitrary canons, and holding its deliberations free from papal control. This again was succeeded in the ensuing October by his treatise on The Babylonian Captivity of the Church, wherein he examines, and for the most part repudiates, the sacramental theories of the mediaeval church. The cause which he advocated now began to assume genuinely European proportions. From Nuremberg came an effective tribute from the youthful meistersánger Hans Sachs to the “ Wittenberg Nightingale,” one of the earliest efforts of his genius. Ulrich von Hutten, at length perceiving the true character of the contest, followed up the address to the German nobility by translating into the vernacular his own treatise To Germans of every Class, and owing to his persuasions the powerful and chivalrous free knight Franz von Sickingen hastened to declare himself an uncompromising supporter of the Lutheran movement. Together they already discussed plans which included nothing less than the establishment of a national church altogether independent of Rome, with the archbishop of Mainz as its primate. The danger that menaced the Roman see could now no longer be disguised; and in June 1520 Leo fulminated his bull of excommunication against Luther. On the 8th of the following July he addressed a letter to Frederick of Saxony in which he deplores that he can no longer speak of Luther as a son. He feels certain that the elector will prove loyal to the church, although he does not disguise the fact that he has heard of his friendship for the heretical leader and that the latter relies on his support. He has ordered the bull to be circulated among the nobility of Saxony, and he feels equally assured that he may reckon on their assistance in extinguishing this “ incendiary conflagration.” As for Luther himself, he denounces him as one who is seeking to revive the heresies of the Waldenses, the Hussites, and the Bohemians, and who, by the manner in which he has condemned the burning of heretics, has clearly shown that he sympathizes with the Turks and aims at the destruction of the true church.@@1
The bull of excommunication, along with numerous volumes of the decretals, was burnt by Luther himself at Wittenberg in the following December,—a proceeding by
@@@1 Balan, Monumenta Reformationis Lutheranee (1884), pp. 13־. This letter, published for the first time in this collection, differs entirely from that given in the Jena edition of Luther’s works ; and Cardinal Balan in his preface (pp. 5-10) adduces satisfactory reasons for concluding that the letter which he prints from an original in the archives of the Vatican is the true letter, and that the other, if not a forgery, is a reproduction from some untrustworthy source.
we meet with the first indications of a reformation of doctrine. During the years 1511-14 Erasmus had filled the post of Lady Margaret professor of divinity at Cambridge, and the publication of his Novum Instrumentum in 1516 was directly the outcome of his labours during that period. Thomas Bilney, the martyr, a member of Trinity Hall and one of the most eminent of the Reformers, expressly attributes his conversion to the influence of Erasmus’s New Testament. Around Bilney there gathered a little band of Cambridge scholars,—Shaxton, Crome, Skip, Rogers, Lambert, Heynes, Taverner, Parker, and others. It was their custom to meet together at an inn known by the sign of the “White Horse.” In the first instance, their attention was chiefly given to the Scriptures themselves, but subsequently to the writings of Luther. The inn then began to be styled “ Germany ” by their enemies; and such would appear to be the first commencement of the Reformation in England. That commencement was illustrated by an incident which not a little resembles the better-known incident associated with the career of Luther. On the appearance of the papal proclamation of indulgences in 1517 a copy had been affixed to the gate of the common schools in the university. The same night a young Norman student, of the name of Peter de Valence, wrote over the proclamation a few Latin words denouncing the theory of indulgences as a superstition. He was forthwith summoned to appear before the vice-chancellor in order to account for his conduct, and on failing to do so was formally excommunicated.
In the month of January 1519 the emperor Maximilian I. died, and the imperial dignity, declined by Frederick of Saxony, descended to Charles V. Of the three monarchs who had aspired to this supreme honour Henry VIII. was now in his twenty-ninth year, Francis I. in his twenty-sixth, and Charles V. in his nineteenth. The English monarch, at this time both zealous and devout, was eager to give some proof of his loyalty to the Catholic Church, and had he occupied the place of Charles the career of Luther would probably have been soon arrested. The great Reformer owed his safety at this critical period mainly to the armed chivalry of Germany, which rallied ominously to his support. On no occasion was its presence more sensibly felt than at the diet of Worms (May 1521). The memorable edict (see Luther), signed on the same day as that on which the pope and the young emperor concluded their compact for the reconquest of Milan from the French, marks the crowning triumph of the policy of Leo and Alexander. But Charles, who looked upon Luther as a means of bringing pressure to bear upon the pontiff which might prove useful in a future emergency, was determined not to surrender the bold professor, for the present, to his enemies. To Henry, who was influenced by no such secular considerations, Luther’s contumacy appeared to call for authoritative rebuke in every land; and in July 1521 he produced, in reply to the treatise on The Babylonian Captivity, his Defence of the Sacraments. The book passed rapidly through several editions, was translated into German, and, to quote the expression of Cochlseus, “ filled the whole Christian world with joy and admiration.” Such an effort from such a quarter called for distinguished recognition. Francis was already styled the eldest son of the church. The imperial dignity presupposed a not less conspicuous fidelity. The titles of “ Most Christian ” or “ Most Catholic ” could not accordingly be vouchsafed to the English monarch. He was therefore rewarded with the newly-coined title of “ Defender of the Faith.” Sir Thomas More and Bishop Fisher both imitated their royal master’s example by also compiling a tractate in reply to Luther; but the Reformer, in his rejoinder to the royal polemic, called its author a fool and designated him the “Pharaoh of England.”
The death of Leo X. in 1521 was coincident with an im- ] portant crisis in Italian history. Milan had been wrested ] from the French by the allied papal and imperial forces, ־ and the realization of that scheme of national unity and independence for which he and his predecessor had laboured seemed no longer a dream of the future. In the midst of his exultation—partly, it is said, as the result of it—Leo died, and seldom in the annals of the pa!>acy had an election to the office been attended with equal interest and excitement. Wolsey eventually was out-manoeuvred by the imperial party, and the emperor’s former preceptor, the irreproachable, austere, and rigidly devout Adrian (VI.) of Utrecht (1522-1523) succeeded to the papal chair. After a few months’ tenure of the office he too gave place to another, and the house of Medici was again represented in the person of Clement VII. (1523-1534). In this election Wolsey was again a candidate, and a second time he had reason to believe that he owed his defeat to the emperor, an injury which he never forghve. In not a few respects Clement was admirably qualified to cope with the difficulties by which he found himself surrounded. He had been at once the most trusted and the ablest of Leo’s advisers; his attainments and experience were such as in every way corresponded to the requirements of his office, for, while well versed in philosophy and theology, he had also mastered the political and ecclesiastical questions of the day, and his clear perception enabled him to grasp the essential features of his policy with remarkable skill and promptitude. His position, however, was one of extreme perplexity, alike in its diplomatic and its theological relations. To no power had he and his house rendered greater services than to Spain; ever since, indeed, the pontificate of Alexander VI., the papacy had, often without designing it, been the instrument of imperial aggrandizement. With the accession of Clement, however, these relations are to be seen assuming a new phase. The election of Charles V. as emperor awoke in the proud representative of the great house of the Medici the sense of a new danger; and the prospect of Milan, Naples, and the empire being concentrated in a single hand was one which no Italian potentate could be expected to contemplate with equanimity. The retreat of Bourbon from Italy, on the other hand, had caused the Curia to look with altered sentiments on the policy of France; and if Clement’s advice and good wishes could have availed aught the great disaster at Pavia would have been averted. The emperor ־was far from unaware how little he had throughout been indebted to Clement’s good offices, and before he led his army into Italy had been heard to avow his intention of avenging himself “on that poltroon the pope.” “Some day or other,” he added, “perhaps Martin Luther may become a man of worth.” The battle of Pavia (February 1525) followed, and its results seemed to threaten the overthrow of that balance of power which it was the aim of the chief leaders of the new nationalities to maintain; both Wolsey and Clement VII. alike now regarded with dismay the proportions which the power of Spain was assuming. “ It is no trivial question, no single state, that is concerned in the coming contest,” exclaimed Clement’s minister; “ this war will decide the freedom or the eternal slavery of Italy.” In July 1526 the papal troops had already entered Lombardy.
Such were the circumstances under which the Clementine League (22d May 1526) was formed, with the general assent of the Italian states, but with the usual disregard of the state of opinion north of the Alps. But it was hardly reasonable to expect that Ferdinand of Austria would be solicitous to uphold the papal interests in Germany when the imperial interests were being thus vigorously assailed in Italy. Three months before, the sanction of the
emperor hacl been given to the publication of certain “ provisions ” in matters of faith which had filled the Lutheran party with alarm. At Gotha and again at Torgau the Protestant leaders began to concert measures for actively repelling the policy of coercion which they anticipated would shortly be commenced. When, however, the diet assembled at Spires in June they found their apprehensions dispelled in an unexpected manner by the newly-aroused animosity towards the Roman pontiff and his policy. Never had the electors shown themselves more unanimous in counsel or submitted with better grace to the contributions imposed upon them. It was even proposed that the recently issued provisions should be publicly burnt and the Bible adopted as the only rule of faith. However, it was finally resolved that the respective states should be declared to be at full liberty, in relation to all questions of belief raised by the edict of Worms (see Luther), “to conduct themselves as each should hereafter be ready to answer for towards God and the emperor,” —terms which virtually implied permission to proceed according to their own discretion. “ Such an enactment,” observes Ranke, “ containing as it does no mention whatever of the supreme pontiff, may be looked upon as the commencement of the Reformation properly so called, involving, in fact, the institution of a new church in Germany.”
The effects of the concurrent action of religious and national sentiment thus brought about were soon to receive : a memorable illustration in Italy. The soldiers who made their way under the leadership of Frondsberg, Ferdinand’s lieutenant, across the Alps, in the snows of November 1526, into the plains of Lombardy, and afterwards mingled with the Spanish forces which Bourbon led on to the assault on Rome, were almost entirely avowed supporters of Luther’s cause and full of fierce hatred of popery. Frondsberg himself loudly declared that as soon as he had taken Rome he would hang the pope. The Spaniards, notwithstanding their unshaken devotion to Catholicism, entered the city burning with the spirit of national antipathy, and eager to revenge the long series of wrongs and exactions which their countrymen had suffered at the hands of Italian ecclesiastics. Among the horrors which followed upon the capture of the capital (May 1527) nothing more completely shocked the sense of Latin Christendom than the savage contempt manifested by the German soldiery for everything that symbolized the Roman faith, their wanton destruction of relics and images, mock religious services, and especial brutality in the treatment of priests. Even their Spanish confederates, though equally merciless in their excesses, looked on with indignation as they saw them disguising themselves as cardinals and holding a mock consistory under the windows of St Angelo for the purpose of electing Luther as pope. But even the impressions thus produced were evanescent when compared with the constantly renewed and unavailing regret which filled the breast of the scholar and the churchman in after years, as he realized the irreparable losses inflicted upon art and learning, the destruction of unique manuscripts and ancient records. Nor can it be a matter of surprise that a sentiment of deep revenge should have arisen in Rome against the Lutheran destroyer, and that even the Swabian and the Spanish invader alike should have afterwards been solicitous in a manner to disguise their own responsibility, by professing to look upon the blow thus struck at the sanctity and inviolability of the sacred city as a direct judgment of God. For a time, though only for a few months, it was believed, even by politicians so shrewd and well informed as Wolsey, that the emperor himself was designing to aid the Reformation. The approach of the Turks, who had overrun Hungary, and the hostility of France demonstrated the urgent necessity of maintaining concord among his subjects in the empire; and it is possible that he may really have contemplated placing himself at the head of the Lutheran movement and keeping Clement VII. permanently a prisoner at Gaeta. But his Spanish blood, his education under Adrian of Utrecht, and the traditions of the imperial dignity proved too powerful a counterpoise, and Charles eventually not only deigned to lay before the courts of Europe a partial explanation and apology for the tragedy at Rome, but in a treaty (26th November 1527) with the pontiff he entered upon an agreement for the adoption of a distinct anti-Reformation policy. It has been asserted that Clement also undertook on this occasion not to declare the marriage of Henry VIII. and Catherine illegal, but no such stipulation appears in the existing treaty.
In pursuance of his anti-imperial policy Wolsey did not fail to seek to turn to the best account the sensation caused by the triumph of the imperial arms. He enjoined the observance of a three days’ fast and the offering up of prayers in every church in England for the captive pontiff’s deliverance. He could not, however, but be conscious that his policy was regarded with but little favour by the nation at large. The young emperor was highly popular among the citizens of London, and the ancient amicable relations with the house of Burgundy and the actual important commercial relations with Flanders combined to render Spain in the eyes of Englishmen their natural ally, while France they still regarded as their hereditary foe. An expedient to which he had recourse about this time only served still further to fan this feeling. He had sought to render France, instead of the Low Countries, the main channel of the commerce between England and the Continent by making Calais the chief port for merchandise. The merchants of the Hanse towns took alarm; and, as it was in their vessels that Luther’s writings, which were now eagerly purchased in England, even at exorbitant prices, chiefly found their way across the Channel, the preachers of the Reformation found no difficulty in representing to their countrymen that an Anglo-French alliance could not fail to prove inimical to the gospel. On the other hand, the Catholic party both in England and in Germany, as soon as the project of the divorce became noised abroad, could not but recognize in Catherine the representative of the interests of the true church, while they looked upon the emperor as her champion, and upon Wolsey as a traitor to the cause of truth and justice. During the last five years the cardinal’s efforts to reform the clergy and repress the Reformation in England had been strenuous and constant. In the year 1521 he had enjoined all the bishops “ to take order that any books, written or printed, of Martin Luther’s heresies and errors should be brought in to the bishop of each diocese.” @@1 The movement at Cambridge continued, however, to progress, and in 1523 some of the bishops suggested the appointment of a visitation to the university “for trying who were the fautors of heresy there.” This proposition was not acted upon by Wolsey, who probably in his heart sympathized with the genuine spirit of learning developing in the university, and the matter was subsequently made the ground of an accusation against him by his enemies.@@2 We find, accordingly, George Stafford, a member of Pembroke Hall, venturing in the following year to adopt the example set by Luther, of taking the Scriptures themselves, instead of the Sentences of Peter Lombard (the theological textbook of the universities), as the basis of a course of divinity lectures. In the following year William Tyndal published at Antwerp the first edition of his translation
@@@1    Strype, Memorials, i. 56.
@@@2    Burnet, Hist, of the Reform., ed. Pocock, i. 70.
of the New Testament, and in 1526 we hear of its introduction into Oxford by Thomas Garret, and of the volume being burnt at Paul’s Cross. On 27th November 1527 Bilney and Arthur were examined at the Chapter House at Westminster before Wolsey and other ecclesiastics, as to whether they had preached or taught to the people the opinions of Luther or any others condemned by the church. Owing to the proximity of Cambridge to the seaports and commercial towns of the eastern counties, such as Yarmouth, Harwich, and Norwich, the university would appear to have become familiarized with the Lutheran doctrines much sooner than Oxford. From 3d July to 20th September 1527 Wolsey was in France, intent on bringing about the marriage of Princess Mary with the duke of Orleans, and on gaining the support of Francis in the matter of the royal divorce.
Henry himself had at this time fully resolved to carry the latter project into effect, and the doubts raised with respect to the validity of his marriage and the legitimacy of Mary cannot be regarded as anything more than official formalities, designed to give a veil of decency to his real purpose. While in France Wolsey learned from Flanders that the emperor had become apprised of Henry’s real intentions, and he himself now proceeded (to quote his own words) to employ “all possible ways and practices for the obtaining of the pope’s consent.” Unfortunately for the success of his efforts, Henry at this juncture conceived the design of sending another agent to Home, to act altogether independently of Wolsey, and charged to procure, not only the appointment of a commission empowered to dissolve the marriage with Catherine, but also a dispensation removing all obstacles to the king’s second marriage with Anne Boleyn. Clement was still a prisoner in the castle of St Angelo, but on the evening of the 9th December 1527, disguised in a blouse and carrying a basket and an empty sack on his back, he effected his escape, and with the assistance of a guide arrived the next morning at Orvieto. From that day his resolve was probably definitively taken, and, notwithstanding his previous promises and his subsequent apparent concessions, he would seem to have been firmly resolved not to grant his consent to a measure deeply humiliating to himself and certain to expose him to the full brunt of the emperor’s resentment. But at Orvieto Henry’s delegate, Knight, although untrained and ill qualified for the task of a diplomatist, obtained both a commission and a dispensation, which, however, on his reaching England, were both found to be worthless, owing to designed non-observance of the necessary technicalities. In the following year Foxe and Gardiner were despatched on a like errand. The latter was far better suited for the work than Knight; and he did not scruple to threaten the trembling pontiff with the complete withdrawal of Henry’s support, and to predict as the inevitable consequence the collapse of the already tottering apostolic see,—a result which, he declared, “ would be attended by the applause and satisfaction of the whole world.” By such menaces Clement was eventually induced again to grant a commission and a dispensation. A decretal bull, formally annulling Henry’s first marriage, was handed to Campeggio, which he was instructed to show to the king and then to destroy. But in the meantime the celebrated brief executed by Julius IL, in which the dispensation for Henry’s first marriage was re-enacted in more precise and unqualified terms, was discovered in the Spanish archives. It was sought to show that the brief was a forgery, but to this view of the matter Clement altogether refused to assent. At length, however, in May 1529 the legate proceeded to open his court at Westminster. The courageous conduct of Catherine put honourable men to shame; and no
slight impression was produced by Bishop Fisher’s heroic declaration of his willingness to stake his life that her marriage with the king was perfectly valid. Campeggio, under various pretexts, still hesitated and delayed. In July the news of the peace of Cambray arrived, and it was known that the influence of the emperor would henceforth be paramount in Italy, while it was believed that the projected marriage between the French monarch and the sister of the emperor augured a durable peace between the empire and France. Then the legate adjourned the court and the pontiff revoked the cause to Borne. All around Wolsey saw the plans which he had laid with so much toil and skill breaking up, and on him the royal displeasure vented itself. He died 30tli November 1530, a victim to the wanton caprice of one whom he had served only too faithfully, and with him the ablest supporter of papal influence and the most formidable opponent of Beformation principles in England disappeared.
Henry would not condescend׳ to appear before a Boman court, and as a last expedient it was proposed that the question of the legality of his first marriage should be submitted to the learned bodies, the universities and eminent canonists of Europe. This scheme had already been recommended by the episcopal bench, but to Cranmer’s ingenuity is attributed the further suggestion that the opinion thus obtained should be carried into effect by a court convened in England. Commissioners, among whom Bichard Croke appears as the most conspicuous and indefatigable, were accordingly despatched on the proposed errand. The means to which they had recourse in order to obtain opinions such as their royal employer desired are plainly described by a contemporary writer, who says that “ there was inestimable sums of money given to the famous clerks to choke them, and in especial to such as had the governance and custody of their universities’ seals.”@@1 The evidence more recently brought to light enables us to accept this statement as substantially correct.@@2  The unpopularity of the divorce among the nation at large was especially shown at the two universities, where the junior members made demonstrations of the greatest dissatisfaction, while their seniors were mostly bribed or intimidated into acquiescence by the royal agents ; nor could the authorities at either Oxford or Cambridge disguise the fact that they found themselves at variance with the feeling of the country at large.
It is at this juncture that Cranmer assumes a foremost C place as a leader of the English Beformation. He had written in defence of the divorce, and had taken a part in embassies sent by Henry to treat on the question with the emperor and the pope; and Clement had shown his sense of the value of his influence by appointing him to the lucrative post of grand penitentiary for England, in the hope of winning him over to the papal interests. Cranmer’s whole policy, however, had been directly opposed to that of Wolsey. He had used his best efforts to confirm the commercial relations with the Netherlands, and had superintended the negotiation of a commercial treaty between that country and England. He had resided for some months in Germany, and while there had married Margaret, the daughter of Andrew Osiander, a distinguished preacher and leader of the Lutheran party at Nuremberg. From Germany he was now summoned back to England to become the successor of Warham, the primate, who had died in August 1532. As there had as yet been no formal rupture with the see of Borne, it became necessary for him to apply to Clement for the customary bull of consecration, and also for his pallium as metro-
@@@1    Cavendish, Life of Wolsey, ed. Singer, p. 206.
@@@2    See Croke’s and other letters in Records of the Reformation, ed. Pocock, Nos. xcix.-cxxvi., cxxviii.-cxlvi., clvii.-cciii.
politan, and on receiving these it was also requisite that he should take the oaths of canonical obedience and subjection to the Roman pontiff. His conduct in this dilemma has been generally regarded as indefensible. In order to show that he disclaimed the right of the pontiff to nominate to ecclesiastical offices in England, he surrendered the several bulls, eleven in number, into Henry’s hands; and, having done this, he took the usual oath of obedience to the see of Rome.@@1 Before doing so, however, he made a protestation to the effect that he did not intend thereby to bind himself to do anything contrary to the laws of God, the king’s prerogative, or the commonwealth and statutes of the kingdom. On 23d May 1533 he proceeded, as archbishop and legate of the apostolic see, to pronounce the king’s marriage with Catherine of Aragon null and void ab initio, as contrary to the divine law; and five days later he gave judicial confirmation to the royal marriage with Anne Boleyn. In the following year (23d March 1534) Clement rejoined by a manifesto declaring the validity of the first marriage, and calling upon Henry to take back his first wife and to observe “a perpetual silence ” in relation to the question for the future.@@2 This decisive step was mainly the result of the parliamentary action that had in the meantime been going on. The parliament of 1529 had in various ways limited the privileges of the clergy, and by the Act 21 Hen. VIII. c. 13 had deprived them of the power of holding pluralities by virtue of licences obtained from Rome for money. Fisher, from his place in the House of Lords, vainly sought to combat these reforms by declaring that Lutheranism ·was spreading in the nation and by reminding his audience of Germany and Bohemia and the miseries that had already befallen those countries. The allusion to the Lutheran movement appears to have been, indeed, singularly injudicious, and there can be no doubt that at this period it was the aim not only of the king but of the bishops to dissociate the Reformation movement in England from the movement that was in progress in Germany. As yet the repudiation of the papal supremacy and a reform in matters of discipline were all that was contemplated either by the crown or the parliament. In 1531 appeared a proclamation making it penal to introduce bulls from Rome, and this was shortly followed by an Act visiting with severe penalties all who should be found going about the country for the purpose of carrying on the sale of indulgences ; while under the famous Statute of Praemunire the whole body of the clergy were convicted of having recognized the validity of Wolsey’s acts as papal legate, and thereby placed both their liberties and their possessions at the mercy of the king. In April 1533 there followed the Act providing that all causes should henceforth be tried in the courts of the kingdom, and forbidding appeals to Rome under any circumstances whatever,—the body “now being usually called the English Church” being held “sufficient and meet of itself to declare and determine all such doubts and duties as to their rooms \i.e., offices] spiritual doth appertain.” These successive enactments had already paved the way for Henry’s final rejoinder to Clement’s demands,—the Act of Supremacy (November 1534), whereby the king was not only declared to be supreme head of the Church of England, but was at the same time invested with full power “ to repress and amend all such errors and heresies as, by any manner of spiritual jurisdiction, might and ought to be lawfully reformed.”
@@@1    It should, however, be noted that Cranmer’s oath as metropolitan contained the clause “ salvo ordine meo,” and this clause might probably, in the judgment of canonists, render his subsequent reservation more defensible. See Sarum Pontifical in Camb. Univ. Lib. (Mm. iii. 21) ; Maskell, Monumenta Ritualia, ii. 317; Strype, Memorials of Cranmer, App. No. VI.
@@@2    Records of the Reformation, ii. 532.
While such was the progress of events in England and in Germany there had been going on in Switzerland a corresponding movement, second only in importance to that, initiated by Luther. The political relations of the Swiss ' confederation at this period exercised a very appreciable influence over the whole course of the Reformation. With the commencement of the century the cantons had already reached the number of thirteen ; and the confederates, in combination with the Leaguers, represented Italian as well as German interests. In great crises they were not incapable of presenting a combined front to the common foe ; but more generally they were divided by political jealousies and differences, while the majority of the men in each canton were mere military adventurers, ready to serve under the banner of the empire, France, the pope, or the duke of Milan, according as the one or the other power seemed likely best to reward their services. An important change in the ecclesiastical relations of the cantons had recently brought them into closer connexion with Rome. The six bishoprics into which Switzerland was divided—Lausanne, Sion (Sitten), Como, Basel, Chur, and Constance—had formerly been severally subject to the metropolitan jurisdiction of Mainz, Besançon, and Milan. But this jurisdiction had been superseded by the creation of the nunciatures, whereby each bishopric was brought into direct connexion with the papal see. The nuncios often exercised a potent influence on the political relations of the confederates. They negotiated with large bodies of Switzers the conditions of military service under the pope ; they directed the traffic in indulgences ; and they watched with especial jealousy the first appearance of schism. The experience, however, of those of the confederates who accepted military service in Italy did not serve to increase their reverence for the Curia and its aims. They carried back with them to their homes a contempt for the whole administration of the Roman see and its dependencies which communicated itself to their countrymen, and at no centres were opinions adverse to Catholicism now spreading more rapidly than at Zurich, Bern, and Basel.
Born in the same year as his brother Reformer, Ulrich Zwingli was scarcely less distinguished by commanding powers, devotion to study, and a yet more notable devotion to truth ; but in the enlightened tolerance which marked his whole career we recognize the contrast between his early associations and those which nurtured the somewhat narrow though fervid patriotism of Luther. The latter, in the retirement of his monastic cell, had pondered over the profound speculations of Augustine, the imaginative subtleties of De Lyra, and the mysticism of Tauler. The other, at the universities of Vienna and Basel, had become familiarized with classic models, and his genius had gained a brighter inspiration from converse with the masterpieces of antiquity. It was in connexion with the church at Glarus that Zwingli first assumed the discharge of pastoral duties. It was characteristic of his true and discerning patriotic feeling that he strongly disapproved of the acceptance of mercenary service by his countrymen, and more especially of the service of France, and his outspoken sentiments on the subject eventually rendered it necessary for him to quit Glarus for Einsiedeln. Here he was for a short time in receipt of a pension from the pope and was generally regarded as a supporter of Catholic institutions. In conjunction with the abbot of Einsiedeln he aimed, however, at the development of a less superstitious spirit among both the clergy and the laity, who resorted in great numbers to the monastery (a noted centre for pilgrimages). It was here that he formed the acquaintance of one of the most eminent of the Reformers, Oswald Geisshàusler (better known as Myconius),
and through his friend’s influence received in 1518 an invitation to settle in Zurich as the parish priest of the cathedral in that city. Here he at once began to discard the traditional mode of exposition which limited the preacher to certain prescribed sections of the Bible, and commenced instead a connected series of lectures on the New Testament. In the course of four years he thus completed a course of sermons on the whole of that portion of the Bible. This innovation, peculiar to the Reformed Church, was never adopted by Luther, although followed by most of the theologians of Switzerland and the upper Rhineland. It was in the year 1519 that Zwingli first became acquainted with Luther’s early treatises; but his own views appear to have been formed quite independently of these. Shortly after his arrival in Zurich the Franciscan Bernardin Samson visited the city on a like mission to that of Tetzel and encountered in Zwingli another Luther. The grossness of the system of indulgences was so ably exposed by Zwingli that he carried nearly all who heard him with him, and Samson was obliged to return to Italy before his mission ·was fully accomplished. Even Faber, afterwards the opponent of Zwingli, could not but express to the latter his satisfaction at the result. Gradually the voice of the Reformer was heard uplifted against other mediaeval superstitions and especially against Mari-olatry; his fame as a preacher rapidly spread, and he became known as one of the chief leaders of opinion in Zurich. The state of morality in the city was, however, exceedingly low, and he not only had to encounter considerable opposition but was repeatedly exposed to charges of heresy. Nevertheless the conviction which he produced among the more influential citizens of the truth of the tenets which he advocated was such that in the year 1520 an order was issued by the city council to the effect that all ministers should in future ground their discourses on the New Testament, “ and prove their doctrine from the Bible alone, discarding all innovations and human inventions.” While meeting with opposition in one direction, he was compelled himself to oppose the zeal of fanaticism in another. As at Wittenberg, an iconoclastic spirit had begun to manifest itself, and the question of the lawfulness of images in churches was warmly debated. In the months of January and October 1523 two conferences of the clergy and laity assembled in Zurich, in the course of which Zwingli put forth sixty-seven propositions, involving conclusions adverse to the teaching and practice of the mediaeval church. Among those who took part in the discussions were Faber, Meyer of Bern, Hofmeister, and Conrad Schmidt of Kiissnacht, Knight Commander of the Order of St John, a man of eminent character and ability. Schmidt endeavoured, although in a temperate and rational manner, to defend the custom of placing images in the churches, but after a warm discussion Zwingli ultimately decided for their abolition. In the yet more important discussion that followed, with respect to the true nature and significance of the mass, whether it was to be regarded as of the nature of a sacrifice or simply as a commemorative ordinance, he expressed himself in favour of the latter interpretation. The issues raised by the sixty-seven propositions extended considerably in their scope beyond all that Luther had as yet advanced; and, as at Leipsic, it was soon discovered that the two contending parties were divided by an insuperable difference with respect to the authority which they were disposed to accept as final,—the one party grounding their arguments solely on the Scriptures, the other on the councils and the fathers. It may be noted, as an illustration of the extremely low status of the inferior clergy of the country at this period, that, in replying to Zwingli’s demand for an intelligent and systematic study of the Scriptures by all pastors, it was urged as an objection that
many pastors might be unable to afford to pui’chase a copy of the Bible for their own use! Another notable theory supported by Zwingli was that known at a later period as Erastianism, according to which the authorities of the church ■were to be held to be ultimately amenable to the jurisdiction of the civil power. At his instance the church at Zurich next proceeded to repudiate the control both of the bishop of Constance and of the papal nuncio, constituting itself (1524) a separate ecclesiastical body, the supreme authority over which was vested in the magistrates of the city. In the public services the Latin liturgy and the Gregorian chant were set aside for a German prayer-book and German singing. The rite of baptism was made more simple,—the ceremony of exorcism on which the Lutheran Church continued long after to insist being altogether discarded. In the year 1525 Zwingli published a more systematic exposition of his tenets in his best-known work, his Commentary on True and, False Religion, which he dedicated to Francis I. His conception of the sacraments and of original sin as here unfolded separates him still further from the doctrine of the mediaeval church, while in his remarkable catholicity of belief in regard to salvation he much resembles some of the early Greek fathers. Like Clement and Origen, he believed in the final happiness of the good and wise, including the good and wise of pagan antiquity; nor did he hesitate to express his conviction that Socrates was a better and wiser man than any Dominican or Franciscan of his own day. On the other hand, he upheld the doctrine of predestination in its most rigid form, that afterwards known as “ supralapsarian ” (see Predestination).
In no country was the Reformation so closely associated with political feeling as in Switzerland; and its upholders, ’ amid surrounding despotisms, were advocates of republican ■ institutions. Zwingli and his followers looked on with shame and sorrow as they saw their countrymen hastening to cross the Alps to become the mercenaries of the pope. With no less sense of humiliation did they regard the venal spirit of their public officials stooping to become the pensioners of the French court. The progress of these new opinions ־was, as is usually the case, much more rapid in the large towns than in the more rural and mountainous regions. At Bern they were ably upheld by Anslielm, the historiographer of the city, and by Sebastian Meyer, and Haller; in the free city of Basel he had for his followers GScolampadius and William Farel; and already in 1527 Conrad Pellicanus, afterwards his zealous follower, had conceived that admiration of his character and tenets which was attended by such important results. Wyttenbach, Zwingli’s former preceptor, sustained his teaching in Biel, Joachim von Watt in St Gall, Biirgli, Blasius, and Dorfmann among the Grisons. In the cantons of Schwyz, Uri, Unterwalden, Lucerne, and Zug, on the other hand, the new doctrines found strenuous opposition; and the simple mountaineers listened with unfeigned sorrow and indignation when they heard that it was proposed to abolish pilgrimages, such as those to the field of Morgarten and the chapel of Tell, and to dispense with those priestly virtues of celibacy and fasting which so greatly enhanced their filial reverence for their village pastor. Another and yet more serious obstacle, which ׳ threatened to place the wJiole movement in peril, was that presented by the differences of belief which now began to' rise among the Protestants themselves. Foremost among these points of difference was that respecting the Eucharist, —the theory which Zwingli maintained being assailed with peculiar acrimony and vehemence by Luther. Political feeling added not a little to the animosity of that attack. Difficult as it may seem to associate the efforts of one who did so much for intellectual freedom with tyranny and
coercion, it is certain tliat Luther’s influence after the year 1523 was not favourable to the political liberties of his countrymen. In that year both Sickingen and Hutten were removed by death, the victims of a policy to which Luther was always strenuously opposed,—the endeavour to enforce the redress of political and ecclesiastical grievances by recourse to arms. The iconoclastic ardour of Karlstadt and the fanaticism of Miinzer alarmed him beyond measure, and he regarded with the most genuine distrust the spread of their influence among the peasantry. The sequel justified his alarm. Ground between the exactions of the agents of the church on the one hand and the oppression of the nobles on the other, the peasants rose at last in fierce rebellion. No such insurrection, so widespread, so sanguinary, and so ruthless in its vengeance, had ever before disquieted Germany as that which marked the close of the year 1524. The part played by Luther in relation to that gloomy episode will always be a matter for dispute among critics of different schools. To some he appears as lending his great influence to crush the efforts of down-trodden classes driven to desperation by intolerable oppression, to others as the champion of law and order against lawless miscreants intent on revolutionizing both church and state. Luther himself considered that loyalty to the emperor and to the civil authority was a primary duty, and that questions of religious reform should never be suffered to affect the citizen’s fidelity to his political obligations. He probably held that his views were justified by the sequel; but they were not shared by Ulrich von Hutten nor by Zwingli, who both maintained that the popedom and the empire were too closely associated to make it possible to attack the one without also attacking the other.@@1 The sacramental controversy runs parallel with the history of the Peasants’ War, and it unfortunately happened that the theory of the Eucharist maintained by Zwingli was the same as that upheld by Karlstadt, whose iconoclastic successes at Wittenberg had made him an object of especial dislike to Luther. It was in vain, therefore, that CEcolampadius and Martin Bucer sought to mediate between the two parties. Luther, to whose view the republican doctrines and the sacramental theory advocated by Zwingli appeared closely associated, believed he saw in the latter only a second Karlstadt; and he was thus led to assail him and his followers with an amount of coarse ridicule altogether unbecoming both the subject and the occasion. Zwingli replied in much more temperate fashion, but he did not hesitate to assert that the doctrine which Luther maintained was identical with that taught by the Church of Home.@@2 To this Luther replied in his tractate entitled Bekenntniss vom Abendmahl Christi( 1528). This pamphlet warfare only served, however, to embitter the relations of the two parties ; and, although the reactionary sentiments evinced by several of the princes at the second diet of Spires (15th March 1529) gave significant warning of the necessity for union and concord among the whole body of the Reformers, it was distinctly foreseen that the conference convened at Marburg a month later was not likely to lead to any healing of the schism (Luther). The excellent intentions of the landgrave of Hesse in convening the conference were altogether frustrated. The moral effect was, however, distinctly favourable to Zwingli. His demeanour towards his opponent had throughout been conciliatory and fraternal, while that of Luther had been of a different character. Although fourteen articles, embracing the most important tenets of the Christian faith, had been agreed upon almost without discussion, he could not regard as a brother the man who differed from him on the obscure and doubtful doctrine embodied in the fifteenth
@@@1    See Ranke’s Deutsche Geschichte, iv. 107.
@@@2    Deutsche Schriften, iii. 16.
article. This intolerance, a sinister omen for the future of the Reformation movement, produced an unfavourable impression on the minds of not a few with respect to Luther’s moderation, and caused them subsequently to espouse. the side of Zwingli, among their number being the landgrave Philip and Francis Lambert. The former, indeed, did not altogether despair of yet bringing about an alliance between the two parties, and was especially desirous of prevailing upon the Evangelical party (as the Lutherans now began to be called) to admit the congregations at Ulm and Strasburg into their communion. With this design he caused the congress of Schmalkald to be convened on the 29th of November, an earlier date than that originally intended. His friendly purpose was, however, again frustrated; and it soon became evident that the elements of difference between Luther and Zwingli— the reluctance of the former to engage in any line of action which might involve an appeal to arms, and the patriotic spirit of the other, which led him to look upon the assertion of political freedom as itself a Christian duty which it would be moral cowardice to evade—were such as it was hopeless to compose.
Such were the circumstances under which the emperor, temporarily freed from graver political anxieties by the treaty of Cambray, convened the diet of Augsburg; and on the 25tli June 1530 the able and generally temperate exposition of the Protestant faith drawn up by Melanchthon, known as the Confession of Augsburg, was read before the assembly and the people. The Catholic reply, composed by Eck and other theologians, was then presented, and finally the Reformers were called upon to renounce their distinctive tenets and return to their ancient faith. They were at the same time required to arrive at a formal decision within a stated period; and on the 13th of August the Evangelical princes notified to the emperor their inability to comply with his command. On the 29th of the following March, at a third congress, convened at Schmalkald, they formed themselves into the memorable League, whereby each party to the compact pledged himself to the following agreement: “As soon as any one of them should be attacked for the gospel’s sake, or on account of any matter resulting from adherence to the gospel, all should at once proceed to the rescue of the party thus assailed, and aid him to the utmost of their ability.” It was likewise resolved steadfastly to oppose the assembling of any council which was not summoned independently of the pope or was not in its composition fairly representative of the whole church. In the meantime the efforts made further to define doctrine had been attended with the usual, it might be said the inevitable, results. The tenth article of the Augsburg Confession had been rigorously formulated so as not merely to exclude the Zwinglian theory of the Lord’s Supper but also to involve in censure any interpretation that deviated, however slightly, from that laid down by Luther himself. A certain section of the Evangelicals declined, accordingly, to sign the Confession, and the four cities of Strasburg, Constance, Mem-mingen, and Lindau shortly after drew up and submitted to the diet another confession, known as the Confessio Tetrapolitana,—the composition mainly of Bucer and Hedio. In this the influence of the Zwinglian party so far prevailed that the adoration of images, a point on which the Augsburg Confession had been silent, was specifically condemned. The four cities were, however, admitted to the League of Schmalkald in 1531. Other circumstances temporarily strengthened the hands of the Leaguers. The emperor had formed the design of raising his brother Ferdinand, king of Bohemia and Hungary, to the dignity of “ king of the Romans ”; but the project roused the jealousy of the house of Bavaria, and the
reigning duke entered into a treaty ־with the Protestant League. Treaties were about the same time made with France and Denmark, and it was evident that the new confederation would be able to oppose a resistance which even the resources of the empire might not be able to overcome. At this juncture another circumstance formed an appreciable element in the imperial calculations. All attempts at arriving at an understanding with the Turks had proved without result, and Solyman’s invasion of Hungary was imminent. At the advice of his brother, Charles accordingly condescended to treat with the members of the League, and in July 1532 the religious peace of Nuremberg afforded a temporary compromise, which it was provided should remain in force until a general council, of the character demanded by the Lutherans, was convened, or until the assembling of a new diet of the states of the empire. In the meantime the Lutherans were to be free from molestation and to be permitted to preach and publish the doctrines of the Confession of Augsburg. They were also to be left in possession of such church property as they still retained, and the jurisdiction of the courts of the empire in ecclesiastical questions was to be suspended. In return for these concessions the Leaguers pledged themselves to be loyal to the emperor, and to render aid both with money and men in the event of an invasion by the Turks. They likewise undertook not to afford protection either to the Anabaptists or to the followers of Zwingli.
t The great leader of the Reformation in Switzerland was *־׳ at this time no more. In the year 1531 the feud between ' the Catholic and Protestant cantons had reached a climax; in the former the more bigoted section, aided by Ferdinand of Austria, had commenced an active persecution, and some of the Protestant preachers had been put to death,. In order to repel these aggressions a league was formed between Zurich, Strasburg, and the landgrave of Hesse, and Zwingli strongly advised that a combined attack should forthwith be made on their opponents in Lucerne and Schwyz, and freedom of conscience obtained by an armed demonstration. Divided counsels, however, prevailed ; and eventually Zurich was left to bear the brunt of the contest almost entirely alone. At the battle of Cappel (11th October 1531) Zwingli fell, and his followers sustained a defeat which, although they carried on a war of fierce retaliation, they were unable to retrieve, and a decided reaction in favour of Catholicism now set in. The death of (Ecolampadius took place soon after the battle of Cappel, and was followed in 1535 by that of Francis Kolb, the Bernese Reformer. The heroic end of Zwingli was a matter of exultation not only to his Catholic antagonists but even to Luther, who was ungenerous enough to class his brother Reformer with lawless fanatics like Miinzer,@@1 and in a letter written in the following year even went so far as to warn Duke Albert of Prussia not to tolerate the followers of Zwingli within his territories.@@2  ¡ss In Germany, on the other hand, the Reformation con-'־ tinued to progress. In 1533 Philip of Hesse, wr ho was subsidized by France, inflicted a severe defeat on Ferdinand, and was able shortly after to reinstate Ulrich, duke of Wiirtemberg, in his dominions. The emperor at the peace of Kadan (29th June 1534) undertook to abstain from further interference in the ecclesiastical affairs of the duchy, and the understanding arrived at on that occasion is regarded by Ranke as marking the second important stage in the history of the Reformation in Germany. The Reformed faith was forthwith established throughout Wiirt-emberg, and soon after was introduced into Holstein, Pomerania, the Mark of Brandenburg, Upper Saxony,
Brunswick, and the Palatinate. The League of Schmal-kald was thus strengthened by numerous and powerful accessions; among the number was King Francis himself, who, although he was repressing the Reformation movement with severity in his own dominions, saw liis advantage in siding with the Protestant princes against his chief enemy, the emperor. Henry VIII. declared himself also a supporter of the League. The city of Basel had already in 1534 put forth, independently, a new confession of faith, and this was followed in 1536 by a second, which received the approval of Luther and became known as the “ first Helvetic confession.” In order, however, still further to unite the Protestant party, with a view to a general council, Luther, in conjunction with other theologians from Saxony, SwT abia, and Hesse, drew up and transmitted to the Lutheran representatives at Schmalkald in February 1537 another confession. In this the doctrines contained in the Confession of Augsburg were reiterated, but in a far more uncompromising form. Luther denounced the pope as Antichrist and the mass as an abomination. Melanchthon declared himself unable to concur in this language, and in an additional article expressed his readiness to yield submission to the bishop of Rome as the highest dignitary in the church so soon as the latter should sanction really scriptural teaching.
As elsewhere, the history of the Reformation in France is that of a twofold struggle,—an endeavour to bring about a reform of discipline, and a contest which pointed in the direction of doctrinal change. The abuses that prevailed in the Gallican Church at this period were scarcely less glaring than those in Germany. The appointments to the higher benefices were dictated solely by the most sordid motives,—political ambition, court favouritism, and family interest. Pluralism largely prevailed ; and both bishoprics and abbeys were granted in commendam to such an extent that residence was almost unknown. Preferments were often bestowed upon laymen, and even upon females and children. Pierre de l’Estoile, writing of the middle of the 16th century, states that the majority of the benefices in France were then held by persons who were by the canon law disqualified for their office. But in no country was the movement, that aimed at the correction of abuses such as these, more completely dissociated from the religious revolution contemplated by the Protestant leaders. In the first instance, the doctrines of Luther were favourably regarded by many of the nobility and of the episcopal order. The leader of the party which represented those doctrines was Lefèvre d’Étaples, whose translation of the New Testament into French appeared in the year 1522. In the year 1521, having been singled out by the Sorbonne for special attack as a teacher of the tenets which the university had just so emphatically condemned, he deemed it prudent, notwithstanding the encouragement he received from Francis, to retire to Meaux. Here, under the protection of Briçonnet, the eminent bishop of that diocese, he became the guiding genius of a movement which at one time seemed likely to transform Meaux into a second Wittenberg. This activity, however, was very early checked by the terrors of a commission. Lefèvre and his disciple Farel fled to Strasburg, the latter subsequently to Geneva, where his efforts founded the famous school of theology associated with the name of Calvin (see Calvin) ; Briçonnet, alarmed at the prospect of a schism which threatened to prove permanent, reverted to Catholicism, and even acquiesced in a policy of persecution in his own diocese. Both Francis I. and his sister ;Margaret, queen of Navarre, were at this time disposed to support the Reformation. When the Sorbonne condemned the Colloquies of Erasmus (May 1526) Francis gave orders that 24,000 copies should be printed and circulated throughout
@@@1    De Wette, Letters, iv. Nos. 1429, 1430.
@@@2    lb., No. 1445.
the country; he accepted with expressions of favour the dedication to himself by Zwingli of the latter’s treatise On True and False Religion. His sister corresponded with Melanchthon and was openly assailed by the Sorbonne as a favourer of heresy, while, as the mother of Jeanne d’Albret, her memory was always cherished with peculiar regard by the great Huguenot party. But the loss of prestige which Francis incurred by his defeat at Pavia and his subsequent captivity inspired the Ultramontane party with greater confidence, and, in spite of his efforts, Louis de Berquin, a leader of the Reformers and one of the most eminent scholars in France, perished at the stake in 1529. The policy of Francis was indeed mainly dictated by one dominant motive—that of personal hostility to the emperor—and the apparent caprice with which he treated the Reformers was the result to no small extent of this feeling. It now became his aim to conciliate Pope Clement as an ally against his great rival, and with this view he took advantage of certain excesses committed by a few fanatics, after the example of Miinzer, to light the fires of persecution. At the same time, therefore, that he was supporting the League of Schmalkald he was burning heretics in his own dominions. On the death of Clement (September 1534), when he found the hopes which he had founded on an alliance with the Medici extinguished, since Paul III. proved less amenable to his plans, he again changed his tactics : he invited Melanchthon to come and take up his residence in France, and he set at liberty those who had been imprisoned for holding the Reformed doctrines. At the peace of Crespy (1544), again, he once more changed his policy, and sought to arrive at an agreement with Charles for the suppression of heresy and the restoration of discipline in the church.
At the period at which we have now arrived the main influences which guided the later history of the Reformation may be discerned in full activity. Largely political almost from the commencement of the movement, they continued more and more to partake of that character or became mingled with elements not less secular. Foremost among these latter must be placed the appeal made to baser motives both in Germany and in England, by the manner in which the nobility of both countries were bribed to acquiesce in the suppression of the religious orders, by being allowed to become large sharers in the property and revenues of the monastic and conventual foundations. Among the lower classes, on the other hand, who were often painfully reminded of the loss they had sustained in the withdrawal of that charity which, amid all the degeneracy of the monasteries, had still been one of their recognized functions, a certain genuine sympathy with Catholicism and traditional regard for its institutions long continued to survive. But even among these classes men could not but be conscious that a higher standard of belief and practice had been introduced by the Reformation, while the superior ability shown by those who preached its doctrines, in adapting their discourse to the comprehension and spiritual needs of the pool’, invested them with a highly effective influence.
it In Germany the policy of the emperor, nearly always ambiguous, became complicated with new difficulties. Charles himself, from political motives, appears at this time to have been really desirous of bringing about a termination of the prevailing religious controversies, but his vice-chancellor, Held, on whom it devolved to carry out his intentions, pursued a singularly infelicitous line of action, which ultimately led to the formation of the League of Nuremberg (10th June 1538), whereby Ferdinand, the duke of Bavaria, Henry of Brunswick, Albert of Brandenburg, and George of Saxony entered into a combination for the purpose of opposing the League of Schmalkald.
Dissatisfied with such a result, Charles next endeavoure( to bring about an understanding by a series of conferences and Paul III. was induced to send his legate to attend i diet in Ratisbon (29th July 1541), where a project fo: reunion, know׳n as the Ratisbon Interim, w׳as brought unde: formal discussion. “ It resulted,” says Gieseler, “ as befori at Augsburg : they quickly came together on merely specu lative formulas; but as soon as they touched upon the ex ternal constitution and ordinances relating to the authority of the church the division remained.” It was the last perhaps the only occasion, on wdiich an influential sectior on both sides (the party that followed Paul III. and tin party that followed Melanchthon) wr as animated by a genu ine desire for reconciliation. Their design was defeatet by the ignoble political aims of Francis on the one hand and by the theological illiberality of Luther and the electoi of Saxony on the other. In the meantime Protestantisn continued to advance: Hermann von Wied, elector o: Cologne, became a supporter of its doctrines; and Pomer ania, Anhalt, Mecklenburg, and the imperial cities wen added to the territories in which it became the dominanl faith. It w׳as at this juncture, when the Reformation ir Germany may be considered to have advanced to its high est point, that Paul III. brought fonvard a proposal foi assembling a general council,—a proposition to which il was decided by the Protestant party at the diet of Worms (March 1545) not to accede, inasmuch as it would be £ council convened by the pope. In the following December, however, the council (see Trent, Council of) assembled, —th. publication, in the meantime, of Luther’s pamphlel Against the Popedom at Rome, founded by the Devil, having further contributed to foster theological rancour. The deliberations of this famous assembly resulted, as is w־el known, in the enactment of a series of canons condemnatory of Protestant doctrine; and in this manner the hopes which down to this time had been cherished oi bringing about a compromise with respect to those articles of faith on which agreement had before seemed not unattainable were finally extinguished.
Two months after the first assembling of the council oi Trent Luther died. His latter days had been embittered by the defection (as he regarded it) of Melanchthon to a hostile camp, in the espousal by the latter of the tenets maintained by (Ecolampadius and Bucer. The doctrine of the church having now been once more defined by the Tridentine decisions, the emperor, in the confident belief that theological divergence might be expected soon to cease, next turned his attention to the removal of those abuses in matters of discipline which he held to be the chief obstacle to the return of Protestants to the church. With this view he brought about the acceptance of the Augsburg Interim (15th May 1548) by the diet, a compromise which, while it roused the susceptibilities of the pope, altogether failed to meet the conscientious scruples of the Protestant party. In its place Melanchthon and Duke Maurice of Saxony put forth the Leipsic Interim, a singular admixture of Lutheran doctrine and Roman ritual, which subsequently gave rise to the controversy with the Adiaphorists. The imperial design, of thus bringing about the extinction of Protestantism either by coercion or by conciliatory measures, may be held to have been finally defeated at the diet of Augsburg (1555), when it was decided not only that every ruler of a separate state should henceforth be at liberty to adopt either the Augsburg Confession (see supra) or the Catholic faith as his personal creed, but that his subjects should also be called upon to conform to the profession of their temporal head. The effects of this arrangement cannot be held to have been beneficial. Wherever, as was not seldom the case, the ruler of one principality embraced a different doctrine
from that professed by a neighbouring potentate, the carrying out of such a law could scarcely fail to generate or intensify feelings of aversion and enmity between their respective subjects, while its complete failure as a means of bringing about unanimity is shown in the rise of those numerous controversies which afterwards enabled the adherents of Romanism to launch so effective a taunt against the principles of Protestantism. Among these controversies were those of the Majorists (1551-1562), whose founder, Georg Major of Wittenberg, maintained the doctrine of the necessity of good works to salvation; of the Synergists (1555-1567), who held that men could not be saved unless the operations of the divine grace were seconded by the spiritual efforts of the individual soul; of the followers of Osiander (1549-1567), who supported a modified theory of the doctrine of justification; of the Crypto-Calvinists (1552-1574), who, led by Peucerus, the son-in-law of Melanchthon, maintained against Flacius Illyricus a theory of predestination differing from the Lutheran doctrine. In this last instance the feelings of enmity engendered by the controversy rose to such a pitch that the elector of Saxony was induced to send the leading Philippists to prison, while Flacius and his party celebrated the victory which they held to be theirs by a solemn service of thanksgiving and a commemorative medal. In the year 1580 an endeavour was made to bring about a reconciliation of the various contending parties by drawing up the celebrated Formula of Concord, but the design was attended with but little success. In the midst of this theological ferment, however, the divines of the university of Helmstadt, in the earlier part of the 17th century, were honourably distinguished by their systematic endeavours to allay the strife; and the career of Georg Calixtus, while affording a remarkable illustration of a gloomy chapter in the history of Protestantism, may be cited as a proof that a faithful adherence to the principles of the Reformation was not incompatible with a regard for the right of private judgment and intellectual freedom, i- In the Scandinavian kingdoms the Reformation was materially assisted by political motives; the introduction of Lutheranism into Denmark by King Christian II. in 1520 was to a great extent the result of his desire to raise the lower classes with a view to the corresponding depression of the nobility and the more powerful ecclesiastics of the realm. He sanctioned the marriage of the clergy and caused the New Testament to be translated into Danish. These measures, however, owing in no slight degree to the motives by which they were held to be inspired, involved him in a struggle with his subjects which eventually led to his deposition and to his passing the rest of his life in exile. But the new doctrines continued to be effectively preached by John Tausen, who had been among Luther’s pupils at Wittenberg; and the principles of the Reformation spread rapidly in Schleswig and Holstein. On the accession of Christian’s successor, Christian III. (his cousin), the movement acquired fresh strength. The new monarch had been a witness of Luther’s heroic conduct at Worms and had conceived the warmest admiration for the character of the great Reformer, and through his efforts the tenets of the Reformation were adopted in 1536, at a diet held at Copenhagen, as the religion of the state. In the following year the movement extended to Norway and shortly after that to Iceland. In Sweden the Reformation was established concurrently with the political revolution which placed Gustavus Vasa on the throne. It was, however, only too apparent that the patriot king was largely influenced by the expectation of replenishing his exhausted exchequer from the revenues of the church, and, as in Germany and in England, the assent of the nobility was gained by their
admission to a considerable share in the confiscated property. Among the powerful cities which represented the great Hanseatic confederacy, again, the acceptance of Lutheran doctrine turned largely on the keen commercial rivalry that then existed between that confederacy and Holland, and on the contests between the privileged and the unprivileged classes in the towns. In the prosecution of the former struggle the burghers of Lübeck appealed for assistance to Denmark, and, failing to gain the aid they sought, proceeded to organize an alliance with the object of restoring Christian II. to his throne; at the same time, with the view of outbidding their opponents in popularity, they unwisely proclaimed revolutionary principles scarcely less subversive than those of Münzer. In the civil war that ensued Christian III. ultimately triumphed over his enemies, and Wullenwever, the leader of the fanatical party, suffered death upon the scaffold. The Reformation was now firmly established, but in, conjunction with the monarchy reinforced by the power of the nobility, while the ecclesiastical constitution was remodelled ; and in the year 1539, at the diet of Odense, the new faith was proclaimed as the religion of the land.
In Bohemia the Hussite movement (see Huss and] Hussites) must be held to have become almost absorbed in the broader current of Lutheranism, although the Calix-tines (or moderate Utraquists) and the Taborites (or extreme party) long continued to differ on questions of discipline. In the earlier part of the 17 th century, however, the trained activity and energy of the Jesuits led to the almost entire expulsion of both parties, and Protestantism as a professed creed nearly ceased to survive.
In Poland Protestantism prevailed before the first quarter of the 16th century closed. In Dantzic, Elbing, and Thorn it was established by overwhelming majorities. By the Pax Dissidentium, however, with a view to averting contests such as those that disturbed the peace of other lands, the principle of universal toleration was enunciated; and the duke of Anjou (afterwards Henry III. of France), on being elected to the vacant throne of Poland in 1573, notwithstanding his own attachment to Catholicism, found himself compelled to swear that he would strictly protect the adherents of the opposed faith from persecution and aggression. But here again the influence of the Jesuits ultimately proved victorious. The nobles were gained over by their arts, and Catholicism reasserted its ascendency.
In the Netherlands, where the free spirit of the great mercantile communities was in singular harmony with the movement, the progress was still more rapid. The details of the heroic struggle waged against Charles Y. and Philip II. must be regarded as belonging rather to secular than to theological history; but it is to be noted, alike to the honour of the people and of the house of Orange, that the enactment of the principle of religious toleration followed upon the fierce and intolerant persecution to which the country had so long been exposed. Although the majority of the inhabitants professed the tenets of Calvinism, the Arminian party succeeded in bringing about a union of church and state, which, however, left the other communions almost entirely unrestricted in their religious freedom. The followers of Gomarus, indeed, early in the 17th century, seemed at one time likely to place this freedom in danger, not only by their assertion of more rigid Calvinistic doctrine, but also by their demand that the church should be constituted independent of the state. But eventually (see Motley, Hist, of the United Netherlands, c. lii.) the party that favoured religious toleration triumphed; and the Dutch republic long continued to be an asylum for those whom the ascendency of the contrary principle in other lands drove into exile. The church organization was modelled on the political organization of the provinces, each province
being subdivided into classes, while the mode of government was nearly identical with that known as Presbyterian.
In England the reformation of doctrine made but little progress during the reign of Henry VIII., for, although by the Ten Articles (1536) the royal assent was given to the adoption of the doctrine of justification by faith and to the recognition of the Bible and the three ancient creeds as the standard of belief, a marked reaction in favour of Catholic doctrine took place in the enactment of the Six Articles in 1539. For a brief period heresy became a statutable offence and death was inflicted under the new provisions. The anomalous position of the English Church became a scandal to Europe; for, while some men were burnt for denying the doctrine of transubstantiation or for refusing to admit the royal supremacy, others, as Barnes and Gerard, suffered at the stake for their profession of Lutheran opinions, and even Cromwell must be regarded as in some measure a victim of his attachment to German Protestantism. During the reign of Edward VI. Somerset in conjunction with Cranmer pressed on the work of the Reformation apace. Chantries and hospitals were everywhere suppressed and their endowments confiscated. The bishops were compelled to acknowledge their direct subordination to the crown by being required to take out licences for the exercise of their jurisdiction. In 1549 the first Book of Common Prayer was published, and the Act of Uniformity prescribed its use, while that of all other forms of devotion was forbidden under heavy penalties. The canon law was revised by a body of commissioners specially appointed for the purpose, and the new code was completed for future use, although it never received the young king’s signature. By these and other similar reforms, carried out in a great measure under Cranmer’s direction, it was sought to make the Reformation in England a complete rejoinder to the proceedings of the council assembled at Trent.
In Scotland the Reformation assumed a different character from that of the movement in England. It was inspired directly and solely by Germany, and may be regarded as commencing from the martyrdom of Patrick Hamilton in the year 1528, there being no evidence of any prior spontaneous efforts in the direction of doctrinal reform on the part of the people. Hamilton’s designs were looked upon with the greatest disfavour by the clergy at large; and, as James Y. was especially anxious to secure the support of that body in his conflict with his insubordinate nobility, he was altogether opposed to the adoption of the Lutheran tenets. He even aspired to succeed to the title, which Henry had forfeited, of “ Defender of the Faith,” and was encouraged to hope that he might succeed to the English crown. After his death (1542), however, under the regency of the earl of Arran, the Reformed doctrines began to be regarded with greater favour at court, while the merciless policy of Cardinal Beaton and the cruel fate of Wishart gave rise to an outburst of popular indignation against the bishops to which Beaton himself fell a victim (1546). The country was now divided into two parties,—the bishops, the clergy at large, and the powerful influence of France (as represented by the Guises) being on the side of Catholicism, while many of the chief nobles and the laity at large were inclined to favour Protestantism. The English influence, which, wisely exerted, might have operated powerfully on the same side, was, however, sacrificed by the injudicious policy of Somerset, who by his endeavour to enforce the marriage of Mary Stuart with the youthful Edward roused the national spirit. The sense of humiliation and resentment which followed upon the battle of Pinkie (1547), where the English were greeted by the Scottish soldiery with the cry of “heretics,” produced a reaction in favour of Catholicism which was not arrested until the return of John Knox in 1555 from the Continent (see Knox).
In Ireland the circumstances which favoured the introduction of Protestantism in England were altogether wanting. The Roman ritual was in harmony with the genius of the people, whereas the aversion naturally inspired by a creed imposed at the dictation of the conqueror was in itself a formidable obstacle. The harsh and essentially un-Christian policy pursued by the constituted ecclesiastical authorities presented further difficulties. The Bible was not translated into the vernacular, and that idiom was equally ignored in the church services, ■where the choice lay between the Latin, hallowed in the minds of the people by immemorial usage, and the language of the oppressor. Notwithstanding, if the native population failed to attend the English Church services they were fined. Other abuses similar to those which had contributed so powerfully to render Germany Protestant,—non-residence on the part of the clergy, the bestowal of benefices on needy aliens, often altogether wanting in religious earnestness, and sometimes indifferent to the observance of ordinary morality,—still further intensified the feeling of alienation. Protestantism became odious in the eyes of the Irish people; and, when, after long years of oppression and neglect, it was sought to inaugurate a juster policy and to render the established church in some degree really national, the obstacles thus created could not be overcome.
Authorities.—Tlic sources already named under Popedom, Beza, Calvin, Erasmus, Huss, Jesuits, Knox, Luther may be consulted. The Lehrbuch der Kirchengeschichte of Gieseler (vol. iii. 2 pts.) gives a condensed and impartial summary of the main features of the movement throughout Europe, together with a valuable compendium of authorities. A translation has appeared in Clark’s Foreign Theological Library, and has been republished in a revised form by Prof. Henry B. Smith (New York, 1868), but in its latter form the valuable citations contained in the German work from the original authorities are not given in full. Other standard works are—Baur, Gcsch. d. christlichen Kirche (1863); Guericke, Handbuch der Kirchengesch., vol. ii. (Leipsic, 1866), which treats the subject from the Lutheran standpoint; Hagenbach, Hist, of Ref. in Germany and Switzerland (Clark’s For. Theol. Lib., 2 vols., 1879), written in sympathy with the Zwinglian movement; Döllinger, Die Reformation, 3 vols. (1851), treating solely of the Lutheran movement; Ranke, Deutsche Gcsch. im Zeitalter d. Ref., 5 vols.; Maurenbrecher, Gcsch. d. katli. Ref, vol. i. (1517-34), 1880. The Annales Ecclesiastici of Raynaldus, the continuator of Baronius, contains original documents. See also Häusser’s Gesch. d. Zeitalters der Ref. (1547-1648), 2d ed., by Oncken, 1879, in which the political relations of the movement are succinctly brought out (Eng. trans. by Mrs Sturge, 1873); Monumenta Reformationis Lutheraner, a selection from documents at the Vatican by Cardinal Balan (1883-84) ; and Keller’s Die Reformation und die älteren Reformparteien (Leipsic, 1885). For the confessions successively adopted by the different Evangelical and Reformed churches consult SchafFs History of the Creeds (1878), chaps, v., vi., and vii. The series known as Leben und ausgewählte Schriften der Väter und Begründer der Lutherischen Kirchen, ed. Nitzsch, 8 vols. (1861-75), gives full biographies of the most eminent Evangelical teachers. The corresponding work for the Reformed Church is the Leben und ausgeiv. Schriften d. Väter u. Begr. d. ref. Kirchen, ed. Hagenbach, 10 vols. (1857-62). ,Other biographies of special interest are—Geiger, Johann Reuchlin, sein Leben u. seine Werke (Leipsic, 1871), and that of Ulrich von Hutten, by Strauss (trans. by Mrs Sturge, 1874). Hutten’s Works (ed. E. Booking, 7 vols., Leipsic, 1871) and Das Chronikon des Konrad Pellican (ed. Riggenbach, Basel, 1877) may also be consulted. For the history of the subject in England, see Foxe’s Acts and Monuments, ed. Cattley, 8 vols. (1841); Jer. Collier’s Ecclesiastical History of Great Britain,'ed. Barham, 9 vols. (1840-41); Burnet’s History of the Reformation in England, ed. Pocock, 7 vols. (1865); and the criticisms contained in vol. iii. of S. R. Maitland’s Tracts (1842), and also his Essays on Subjects connected with the Reformation in England. The Records of the Reformation, by Pocock, 2 vols. (1870), contains important original documents ; to this work may be added Strype’s Annals, 6 vols. (1822), and Memorials, 7 vols. (1824); the works of the Reformers published by the Parker Society (Cambridge, 184154־), and the Zürich Letters, 3 vols. (same society); J. H. Blunt’s Reformation of the Church of England (1514-47), 2 vols., 1869-80 ; and Dixon’s History of the Church of England from the Abolition of the Roman Jurisdiction (1529-48), 2 vols., 1877-80.    (J. B. M.)
REFORMATORY AXD INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS. There exist two classes of schools for the reformation and industrial training of children in Great Britain and Ireland, both under state control when duly certified. Reformatory schools are for the better training of juvenile convicted offenders; industrial schools, in which industrial training is provided, are chiefly for vagrant and neglected children and children not convicted of theft. These schools are of modern but gradual growth, the result in part of humane endeavours to rescue children from evil courses already embarked on or likely to be their lot, in part of the conviction that, as a matter of social economy, the expenditure incurred in early restraint is less costly than the punishment of matured crime.
England and Scotland.—The Acts of Parliament relating to reformatory and industrial schools in Great Britain were consolidated and amended in 1866; and these Acts (29 and 30 Yict. cc. 117, 118), with local legislation and some extension and amendment, govern the two classes of schools at the present time. Both reformatory and industrial schools are certified by the home secretary upon the application of the managers, and upon a satisfactory inspection and report, and subject to a yearly visit by inspectors. In both classes industrial training is an essential feature, so as to engender industrious habits in the inmates and give them the means of earning an honest livelihood. Not only local circumstances but reasonable individual inclinations are taken into consideration. In rural districts the cultivation of the soil and in urban districts local trades are obvious sources of employment; the duties of a sailor are taught in training ships near the coast. Occupations that create a distaste for labour or that do not provide a permanent source of profitable labour for adults are avoided. The managers (often a committee of magistrates) make all necessary rules for the management and discipline of the schools, subject to the provisions of the legislature and the intervention of the secretary of state. They have the appointment of officers. Conformity to the rules and residence in the schools may be enforced by imprisonment, the application and limits of which vary somewhat in reformatory and industrial schools, e.g., such imprisonment for school offences is confined in industrial schools to children above ten, an age almost always exceeded in the inmates of reformatories. Attention is paid in both classes to religious convictions, and as far as possible a selection is made of a school conducted in accordance with the creed professed by the child or its responsible guardians. Children after eighteen months’ detention may be placed out on licence with trustworthy persons and with their own consent. The managers of a reformatory or of an industrial school may decline to receive the youthful offender in the one case and in the other the child proposed to be sent; but the reception of a child operates as an undertaking by the managers to educate, clothe, lodge, and feed him (or her) until he (or she) can be legally discharged or is removed. Reformatory and industrial schools are, hoAvever, essentially distinct in character and governed by distinct Acts of Parliament: a school cannot at the same time be both a certified industrial school and a certified reformatory school. The Middlesex Industrial School for juvenile offenders, established under local Acts, and in part a certified industrial school, is, however, somewhat exceptional in blending the treatment of both classes.
Any offender under sixteen, convicted of an offence punishable with penal servitude or imprisonment and sentenced to be imprisoned for ten days or a longer tenn, may be sent to a certified reformatory school for not less than two and not more than five years. A youthful offender under ten cannot be sent to a reformatory school unless he has been previously charged with some crime
or offence punishable with penal servitude or imprisonment, or is sentenced in England by a judge of assize or court of general or quarter sessions or in Scotland by a circuit court of justiciary or a sheriff. Youthful offenders receiving a conditional pardon may now be sent to a certified reformatory school. Certified industrial schools receive any child apparently under fourteen avIio is brought by any person before justices as answering to any of the following descriptions :—if found begging or receiving alms (w׳hether actually or under the pretext of selling or offering for sale anything) or being in any street or public place for these purposes; if found wandering and not having any home or settled place of abode, or proper guardianship, or visible means of subsistence; if found destitute, either being an orphan or having a surviving parent who is undergoing penal servitude or imprisonment; if it frequents the company of reputed thieves; if lodging, living, or residing with common or reputed prostitutes, pr in a house resided in or frequented by prostitutes for the purpose of prostitution; if it frequents the company of prostitutes (43 and 44 Yict. c. 15); where a parent or step-parent represents to the magistrates that he is unable to control a child and that he desires that the child be sent to an industrial school; where the guardians of the poor represent that a child maintained in a Avorkliouse or pauper school or poor-house is refractory or the child of a parent convicted of a crime or offence punishable with penal servitude or imprisonment, and that it is desirable that he be sent to an industrial school. To the above cases have to be added a child apparently under twelve avIio is charged with an offence punishable by imprisonment or a less punishment but has not been in England convicted of felony or in Scotland for theft; and the children of any woman convicted of a crime after a previous conviction, and under her care and control at the time of conviction for the last of such crimes, who have no visible means of subsistence or who are without proper guardianship (Prevention of Crimes Act, 1871).
A prison authority (a term as regards industrial schools calculated to mislead, as the authority is in general the court of quarter sessions or school boards, and in Scotland commissioners of supply, magistrates of burghs, or county boards) may, with the approval of the secretary of state, establish or contribute toAvards the establishment, building (including borroAving money), or management (and in England may not only contribute to but undertake these matters) of reformatory or industrial schools, or toAvards the support of the inmates, and such authority may contract with the managers for the reception and maintenance of offenders or children. The treasury contributes toAA־ards the custody and maintenance of offenders in reformatory and of children in industrial schools on the recommendation of the secretary of state, the sum being limited as regards children in industrial schools, on the application of their parents or guardians, to 2s. per head per week. The guardians of the poor or the board of management of district pauper schools or parochial boards of a parish or combination may, with the consent in England of the local government, and in Scotland of the board of management, contribute towards the maintenance of children detained in industrial schools. A prison authority in England may contribute toAvards the ultimate disposal of an inmate of a certified industrial school. The parent or other person legally liable to maintain a youthful offender or child in a school is required (if able) to contribute not more than 5s. per Aveek, recoverable summarily. The alleged Avant of diligent enforcement of this liability is a great source of complaint.
The introduction of a system of compulsoiy elementary education rendered it necessary to extend industrial schools. Under
various Acts passed since 1870 school boards have power, with the consent of the secretary of state, to contribute to or wholly to undertake the establishment, building, and maintenance of industrial schools, and a power exists to transfer industrial schools from other authorities to school boards, but such schools are subject to the jurisdiction of the secretary of state in the same manner as other certified industrial schools. The machinery for bringing children, the subjects of certified industrial schools, before the proper tribunal for making orders has been and is a vexed question. Legislative powers given to “any one” are apt to fall into abeyance or into the hands of the police. School boards have a discretionary power to appoint officers to bring children before justices to be sent to industrial schools (33 and 34 Yict. c. 75, s. 36). A school board or school attendance committee (as the local authority) is required, after due warning to the parents, to complain to a court of summary jurisdiction of the non-attendance of a child coming within the elementary education Acts, and must so complain at the instance of any person. The court may then make an attendance order for the child at some certified efficient school, and, in case of non-compliance, may order the child to be sent to a certified day or other industrial school. The expenses of industrial schools, established by or contributed to by school boards, form part of the general expenses of the school fund. As in the case of other industrial schools, parents are liable to contribution, and where a child is ordered upon complaint made by a school attendance committee to be sent to a certified industrial school the council, guardians, or sanitary authority appointing such committee have, on the recommendation of the committee, the same power of contri-buting towards the maintenance as if they were a school board (42 and 43 Viet. c. 48, s. 4).
In 1876 a fresh class of industrial schools was introduced called “certified day industrial schools,” in relation to which prison authorities and school boards have the same powers as in the case of industrial schools ; and towards the custody, industrial training, elementary education, and meals of children attending these schools parliament may contribute a sum limited to Is. per head per week, on conditions recommended by the secretary of state, with a limited power over the contribution of parents. In certain cases of non-compliance with an attendance order the child is sent to a day industrial school rather than to an industrial school of the class described above (39 and 40 Viet. c. 79, s. 16). In large cities day industrial schools are calculated to be of great service in dealing with the class of poor neglected children. The children are found to be managed without much difficulty, and to respond to any efforts made on their behalf; they compare favourably with children kept for years in close confinement, and are often their superiors in spirit and intelligence (27th Report of inspector). Another description of certified schools has sprung up in connexion with school boards,—“ truant schools. ” The few which at present are established in London and some large towns are on the whole doing a good work. The necessary adaptation of certified industrial schools to the school-board system must necessitate the placing of all reformatory and industrial schools on a clearer system of classification. Crime must be distinguished from pauperism. However crime may arise from neglect of parents, it is neither desirable nor fair to compel as the price of poverty children unconvicted of crime to associate with juvenile delinquents even after the punishment of crime has ceased. On the other hand, the actual incarceration of boys and girls in a jail should be avoided as far as possible.
The total number of schools under Government inspection at the close of 1883 was 200, viz., 61 reformatory and 139 industrial schools, of which last 7 were specially certified as truant and 12 as day industrial schools. The number of children under detention in 1883 in reformatory schools in Great Britain was 6657, at a total school expenditure of £126,122, of which £85,635 was paid by the treasury, £6140 by parents, £23,183 by rates, and £4943 by subscriptions and legacies. In industrial schools the number was 18,780 and the expenditure £359,821, of which £176,733 was paid by the treasury, £17,596 by parents, £40,052 by rates, £65,542 by school boards, and £42,129 by subscriptions. The total admissions (excluding transfers) to reformatory schools to the end of 1883 amounted to 42,669, viz., 34,640 boys and 8029 girls. The total discharges (excluding transfers) were 36,111, viz., 29,235 boys and 6876 girls. They were disposed of as follows :—
The total admissions to industrial schools (excluding transfers)
to the end of 1883 were 61,260, viz., 48,959 boys and 12,301 girls. The total discharges (excluding transfers) were 42,412, viz., 33,877 boys and 8535 girls. They were disposed of as follows :—
Ireland.—Reformatory schools were established in Ireland in 1858, and ten years afterwards were placed mainly on their present footing (Irish Reformatory Schools Act, 1868) ; whilst the establishment and regulation of industrial schools were provided for by the Industrial Schools Act (Ireland), 1868, extending to Ireland, with certain modifications, the English Act of 1866. The differences between the Acts applicable in Ireland and Great Britain relate chiefly to minor matters. The rule requiring a young offender or a child to be sent to a school under the same religious management is much more rigid in Ireland than in Great Britain, and the Irish Act does not limit the power of sending a child under ten to a reformatory school where the child has not been previously charged with an offence punishable with penal servitude or imprisonment. The power to contract with managers for the reception and maintenance of young offenders is in general vested in grand juries and in some town councils. The number of reformatory schools in Ireland at the close of 1883 was 9, viz., 5 for boys and 4 for girls, with 907 boys and 192 girls. Of industrial schools there were 62, viz., 17 for boys, 44 for girls, and 1 for young boys and girls, with a total of 2409 boys and 3759 girls. The disposal on discharge follows the lines given in the tables for Great Britain. Much the larger proportion of girls in industrial schools in Ireland, as might be anticipated, find their subsequent career in employment or service, or are placed out through Mends. Emigration also is absolutely far larger (and has been from the establishment of industrial schools) in the case of girls than of boys. The reported results of the training of girls discharged from reformatory schools are very satisfactory, and among the 1526 girls discharged during the three years 1880-82 there was only one conviction for crime during 1883. The total receipts for the maintenance of reformatory schools in 1883 were £28,116, of which £17,555 was contributed by the treasuiy vote and £7920 from local rates. The average cost per head for maintenance (including rent and disposal) was £23, 9s. for boys and £27, 2s. 2d. for girls. For industrial schools the receipts in 1883 ־were £126,820, of which the treasuiy contributed £77,259 and rates £27,960. Parental contributions to reformatory and industrial schools were £1018.
United States.—The institutions in the United States and of other civilized countries, having for their object or effort the reclamation of the young, are too closely connected with the education of poor and destitute children generally to allow of examination here, or of useful comparison with the reformatory and industrial schools of Great Britain under state control.
In 1882 a royal commission was issued to inquire into the management generally of all certified reformatories and industrial schools in the United Kingdom. The commission, in the following year, suggested a simplification of the law and the removal of some anomalies and defects, including the vexed question as to the treatment of boys and girls in relation to imprisonment, and the distinctions already adverted to. The commissioners expressed their opinion that these schools were having a salutary effect in reducing the amount both of juvenile and of adult crime. The memoranda of the earl of Dalhousie and Lord Norton attached to the Report are worthy of special attention. (j. E. D.)
REFORMED CHURCHES, the designation of those Protestant bodies who adopted the tenets of Zwingli (and later of Calvin), as distinguished from those of the Lutheran or Evangelical divines. Compare Presbyterianism, Reformation, and Germany, vol. x. p. 469.
REFORMED CHURCH IN AMERICA (Dutch), formerly the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church, a religious denomination which arose in Holland in the 16th century. See Presbyterianism, vol. xix. p. 698 sq. REFRACTION. See Light and Optics. REFRIGERATION. See Ice and Preserved Food.
REGALIA, insignia of royalty used at the coronation of the sovereign and other great state ceremonials. The regalia of England were in very early times deposited for security in some religious house dependent on the crown, most generally in the treasury of the Temple. The first mention of their being deposited in the Tower of London is in the reign of Henry III., who on his return from France in 1230 commanded the bishop of Carlisle to replace the jewels in the Tower as they had been before. From his time down to the present the regalia (with the exception of the ancient crown of Edward the Confessor, long retained in Westminster Abbey) have been generally in the Tower under the care of a keeper, but both Henry III. and several of his successors, when in money difficulties, had recourse to the expedient of pawning the crown jewels to raise a loan. Originally the keeper was appointed by letters patent at a stated salary of £50 per annum, which was so largely increased by perquisites that in the time of Henry VIII. it amounted to about ¿£1500. The office had attached to it important privileges, and was frequently held by persons of distinction. At the Restoration many of the perquisites were abolished, and since that period the duties have been merged in those of the lord chamberlain, who appoints a person to have charge of the regalia in the Tower. To make up for the decrease in the perquisites of the office, the regalia were first in the reign of Charles II. allowed to be exhibited in public, the profits accruing being given to the person appointed by the lord chamberlain to have charge of the regalia. They were originally kept in a small building in the south side of the White Tower, till the reign of Charles I., when they were transferred to a strong chamber in the Martin Tower, afterwards called the Jewel Tower. During the Civil War they were nearly all carried off by the Puritans and destroyed, and in 1671 an attempt made to steal the new regalia by Colonel Blood (q.v.) was nearly successful. During the fire of 1841 they were removed for safety to the house of the governor, and afterwards a new room within the Wakefield Tower was constructed for their reception. The regalia now contained in this room include St Edward’s crown, made for the coronation of Charles II. to replace the one broken up and sold during the Civil War; the new state crown made for the coronation of Queen Victoria; the prince of Wales’s crown ; the queen consort’s crown ; the queen’s diadem or circlet of gold made for the coronation of Marie d’Este, consort of James IT.; St Edward’s staff of beaten gold ; the royal sceptre or sceptre with the cross ; the rod of equity or sceptre with the dove; the queen’s sceptre with the cross; the queen’s ivory sceptre, made for Marie d’Fste ; an ancient sceptre supposed to have been made for Queen Mary, consort of William III.; the orb; the queen’s orb; the Koh-i-Noor diamond ; the sword of mercy or curtana ; the sword of justice; the armilke or coronation bracelets; the royal spurs ; the ampulla for the holy oil; the gold coronation spoon (supposed to be the only relic of the ancient regalia now remaining) ; the golden salt cellar; the baptismal font; and the silver wine fountain presented to Charles II. by the corporation of Plymouth.
Tlie regalia of Scotland, of which there is a very complete account in 1’aprrs relative to the regalia of Scotland published by the Bannatyne Club (1829), consist of the crown, the sceptre, and the sword of state. The ancient regalia were carried off or destroyed by Edward I. of England in 1296, and Robert Bruce was crowned at Scone with a temporary crownlet, which also shortly afterwards fell into the hands of the English. The present crown, from the character of a portion of its workmanship, is supposed to be that made by the orders of Robert Brace and first used at the coronation of David TI. in 1329. Two concentric circles were added to it in the reign of James V., surmounted at the point of intersection with a mound of gold enamelled and a large cross patee, upon which arc the characters J. R. V. The sceptre was made in the reign of
James V., and the sword of state was presented to King James IV. in 1507 by Pope Julius II. When Cromwell invaded Scotland the regalia were removed for greater security by the earl marischal from the crown room in Edinburgh Castle to his castle of Duunottar, one of the strongest fortresses in Scotland. During its siege by Cromwell they were carried from it by a stratagem devised by the wife of the governor and the wife of the minister of Kiuneff, and buried under the flagstones in Kinneff church, where they remained till the Restoration. From the Restoration till the Union they were deposited in the crown room of Edinburgh Castle. After the Union they lay locked in a chest until 1818, when they were first publicly exhibited. See also the articles Coronation, Crown, aud Sceptre.
REGENSBURG. See Ratisbon.
REGENT. The position of a regent as an administrator of the realm during the minority or incapacity of the king is one unknown to the common law. “ In judgment of law the king, as king, cannot be said to be a minor, for when the royal body politic of the king doth meet with the natural capacity in one person ,the whole body shall have the quality of the royal politic, which is the greater and more worthy and ־wherein is no minority. For ovine majus continet in se minus ” (Coke upon Littleton, 43a). For reasons of necessity a regency, however anomalous it may be in strict law, has frequently been constituted both in England and Scotland. There are fifteen instances in English history, the earliest of which is the appointment of the earl of Pembroke with the assent of the loyal barons on the accession of Henry III. Whether or not the sanction of parliament is necessary for the appointment is a question which has been much discussed. Lord Coke recommends that the office should depend on the will of parliament (Inst., vol. iv. p. 58), and it is certain that in modern times provision for a regency has always been made by Act of Parliament. In Scotland the appointment of regents was always either by the assent of a council or of parliament. Thus in 1315 the earl of Moray was appointed regent by Robert I. in a council. At a later period appointment by statute was the universal form. Thus by 1542 c. 1 the earl of Arran was declared regent during the minority of Mary. By 1567 c. 1 the appointment by Mary of the earl of Moray as regent was confirmed. As late as 1704 c. 3 provision was made for a regency after the death of Anne. The earliest regency in England resting upon an express statute was that created by 28 Hen. VIII. c. 17, under which the king appointed his executors to exercise the authority of the crown till the successor to the crown should attain the age of eighteen if a male or sixteen if a female. They delegated their rights to the protector Somerset, with the assent of the lords spiritual and temporal. No other example of a statutory provision for a regency occurs till 1751. In that year the Act of 24 Geo. II. c. 24 constituted the princess dowager of Wales regent of the kingdom in case the crown should descend to any of her children before such child attained the age of eighteen. A council called the council of regency was appointed to assist the princess. A prescribed oath was to l>e taken by the regent and members of the council. Their consent was necessary for the marriage of a successor to the crown during minority. It was declared to be unlawful for the regent to make war or peace, or ratify any treaty with any foreign power, or prorogue, adjourn, or dissolve any parliament without the consent of the majority of the council of regency, or give her assent to any bill for repealing or varying the Act of Settlement, the Act of Uniformity, or the Act of the Scottish parliament for securing the Protestant religion and Presbyterian church government in Scotland (1707 c. 6). The last is an invariable provision, and occurs in all subsequent Regency Acts. The reign of George III. affords examples of provision for a regency during both the infancy and incapacity of a king. The Act of 5 Geo. III. c. 27 vested
in the king power to appoint a regent under the sign manual, such regent to be one of certain named members of the royal family. The remaining provisions closely followed those of the Act of George II. In 1788 the insanity of the king led to the introduction of a Regency Bill. In the course of the debate in the House of Lords the duke of York disclaimed on behalf of the prince of Wales any right to assume the regency without the consent of parliament. The necessity for the authority of parliament in the particular circumstances was much discussed, as a reference to the parliamentary history of the time will show. Owing to the king’s recovery the bill ultimately dropped. On a return of the malady in 1810 the Act of 51 Geo. III. c. 1 was passed, appointing the prince of Wales regent during the king’s incapacity. The royal assent was given by commission authorized by resolution of both Houses. By this Act no council of regency was appointed. There was no restriction on the regent’s authority over treaties, peace and war, or parliament, as in the previous Acts, but his power of granting peerages, offices, and pensions was limited. At the accession of William IY. the duchess of Kent was, by 1 Will. IY. c. 2, appointed regent, if necessary, until the Princess Victoria should attain the age of eighteen. No council of regency was appointed. By 1 Yict. c. 72 lords justices were nominated as a kind of regency council without a regent in case the successor to the crown should be out of the realm at the queen’s death. They were restricted from granting peerages, and from dissolving parliament without directions from the successor. The last Regency Act was passed after the marriage of the queen. By 3 & 4 Yict. c. 52 Prince Albert was appointed regent in case any of the queen’s children should succeed to the crown under the age of eighteen. The only restraint on his authority was the usual prohibition to assent to any bill repealing the Act of Settlement, &c. By 10 Geo. IV. c. 7 the office of regent of the United Kingdom cannot be held by a Roman Catholic. A similar disability is imposed in most, if not all, Regency Acts.
REGGIO DI CALABRIA, a city of Italy, in the province of its own name, formerly Calabria Ulteriore Priina, is admirably situated on the Strait of Messina some miles farther south than the city of Messina on the other side. It is the terminus of the railway round the south-east coast from Bari; a scheme for a line along the west coast to Naples received legislative sanction in 1879. The luxuriant gardens and orchards of Reggio have been celebrated for centuries, and the climate is so warm that even the date-palm occasionally ripens its fruit. The old city was in great part destroyed by the earthquake of 1783, and it is now built on a regular plan, with broad streets running north and south and cross streets climbing the hill from the seaside. Besides the cathedral (rebuilt since the earthquake), the principal edifices are the chamber of commerce, the new comizio agrario, the castle on the height, the Renaissance Palazzo Musitano Guerrera, and the Gothic Villa Leo. Local manufactures are essences, scented waters, silks, and byssus gloves, caps, and shoes. Extensive improvements have since 1870 been made on the port of Reggio both by the municipality and the Government; in 1883 787 vessels (209,717 tons) entered and 713 (207,179) cleared. Oil, lemons, and similar fruits, essences, silk, and grain are the staple exports. The population of Reggio was, in 1881, 23,853 in the city, or including the various suburban villages—Sbarre (3622), Santa Catarina (1147), &c.—35,437, and in the commune 39,296.
A colony, mainly of Chalciilians, partly of Messenians from the Peloponnesus, settled at Rhegium (Regium) in the 8th century B.c. About 494 b.c. Anaxilas, a member of the Messenian party, made
himself master both of Regium and Zanele (Messina). In 427 it joined the Athenians against Syracuse, but in 415 it remained neutral. An attack which it made on Dionysius of Syracuse in 399 was the beginning of a great struggle which in 387 resulted in its complete destruction and the dispersion of its inhabitants as slaves. Restored by the younger Dionysius under the name of Phcebias, the colony soon recovered its prosperity and resumed its original designation. In 280, when Pyrrhus invaded Italy, the Regines admitted within their walls a Roman garrison of Campanian troops; these mercenaries revolted, massacred the male citizens, and held possession of the city till in 270 they were besieged and destroyed by the Roman consul Genucius. Though one of the cities promised by the triumvirs to the veterans, Regium escaped through the favour of Octavius (hence Regium Julium). Alaric (410 a.d.), Totila (549), and Robert Guiscard (1060) all occupied the city. It was at Reggio that Joseph Bonaparte received the title of king of the Two Sicilies. In 1860 the Bourbon garrison surrendered to the Garibaldians.
REGGIO NELL’ EMILIA, a city and episcopal see of Italy, in the province of Reggio nell’ Emilia (up till 1859 part of the duchy of Modena), is situated on the line of the old Via ./Emilia, 17 miles by rail south-east of Parma. It is a large, well-built, and flourishing place with a population in 1881 of 18,634 (commune 56,031) within the circuit of its walls. Among the points of principal interest are the Piazza Maggiore, with the statue of the river Crostolo; the cathedral, which was founded in 857 a.d. but dates mainly from the 15th century; the cocathedral basilica of San Prospero, with its six old Lombard lions in front; the public library, which contains the published and unpublished works of Spallanzani; the museum, in which are preserved the same naturalist’s collections; the large municipal theatre, famous for its operas throughout Italy; and the municipal “ palace,” with the statue of Csecilius Metellus. In the neighbourhood of the city there is an extensive model lunatic asylum as well as a large poorhouse. The house in which Ariosto was born in the Corso della Ghiara is now municipal property. Horse-races are held at Reggio every year.
Regium Lepidi or Regiuni Lepidium was probably founded by zEmilius Lepidus at the time of the construction of the zEmilian Way. It was during the Roman period a flourishing municipium, but never became a colony ; and, though the name is frequently mentioned in the course of the civil war, it is associated with no event more interesting than the assassination of M. Brutus, the father of Caesar’s friend and foe. The bishopric dates from 450 A.D. Under the Lombards the town was the scat of dukes and counts ; in the 12th and 13th centuries it formed a flourishing republic, busied in surrounding itself with walls (1209), controlling the Crostolo and constructing navigable canals to the Po, coining money of its own, and establishing prosperous schools. About 1290 it first passed into the hands of Obizzo d’Este, and the authority of the same family was after many vicissitudes more formally recognized in 1409. In the contest for liberty which began in 1796 and closed with annexation to Piedmont in 1859 Reggio took vigorous part. Besides Ariosto, the city has given birth to Secchi the astronomer and Prospero Clementi the sculptor; and the poet Boiardo was governor of Reggio for many years before his death in 1494.
REGIOMONTANUS (1436-1476). The real name of this astronomer was Johann Müller, but from his birthplace, Königsberg, a small town in Franconia, he called himself Joh. de Monteregio. The name Regiomontanus occur for the first time on the title !)age of his Scripta, published in 1544, but he has since become best known by it. He was born in June 1436 and became the pupil of Pur bach at the university of Vienna, and jointly with him endeavoured, with such imperfect instruments as they could construct, to test the accuracy of the Alphonsine tables of the motions of the planets. After Purbach’s death Regiomontanus finished and published his Epitome in Ptolemsei Almagestum, but, having in the meantime become acquainted with Cardinal Bessarion, who was anxious to spread the knowledge of the Greek literature among the Western nations, he proceeded with him to Italy in 1462, and for the following eight years devoted a great deal of time to the study of the Greek language and to collecting
Greek manuscripts. He returned from Italy in 1471 and settled at Nuremberg, at that time one of the chief centres of German industry and literary life. Here he became associated with Bernhard Walther (1430-1504), a wealthy patrician and an enthusiastic astronomer. An observatory was erected, and the finest instruments the skilful artisans of Nuremberg could make were regularly used by the two friends for observing the heavens. Clocks driven by weights were here used for the first time for scientific purposes, the influence of refraction in altering the apparent places of the stars better appreciated, Venus substituted for the moon as a connecting link between observations of the sun and of stars, and other improvements introduced in practical astronomy. Regiomontanus also published a number of calendars and ephemerides, which induced Pope Sixtus IV. to summon him to Rome to assist in reforming the confused calendar. He died very shortly after his arrival in Rome, July G, 1476.
In 1464 Regiomontanus finished a work on trigonometry, which science had made considerable progress among the Arabians but had to be reinvented in Europe. The work was, however, never printed till 1533 (Da Triangulis libri quinqué), probably because the author, after introducing the use of tangents, had wished to re-write his book, but was prevented from doing so by his early death. In his Tabulae Direclionum (Nuremberg, 1475) there is a table of tangents (tabula fecunda). His instruments and observations at Nuremberg are described in a posthumous work,—Scripta clarissimi mathematic¿ Joh. Regiomontani (Nuremberg, 1544). The ephemerides and calendars were published partly in German (Magister Johann von Kunsperk’s teutschcr Keilender), partly in Latin (Ephemerides Astronomicae, Nuremberg, 1473 or 1475, for the years 1475-1506 ; Kalendarium Novum, Nuremberg 1474, reissued many times and translated into German and Italian). The German geographer Martin Behem made these calendars known among the Spanish and Portuguese navigators, and they became of the greatest importance in guiding Columbus, Diaz, Vasco da Gama, and many others over the trackless ocean. The life of Regiomontanus was written by Gassendi (The Hague, 1654); among modern works see Regiomontanus, ein geistiger Vorläufer des Copernicus, by Zeigler (Dresden, 1874), Die Vorgeschichte der ■Gregorianischen Kalenderreform, by Kaltenbrunner (Vienna, 1876), and Rudolph Wolfs Geschichte der Astronomie (Munich, 1877).
REGISTRATION. In all systems of law the registration of certain legal facts has been regarded as necessary, chiefly for the purpose of ensuring publicity and simplifying evidence. Registers, when made in performance of a public duty, are as a general rule admissible in evidence merely on the production from the proper custody of the registers themselves or (in most cases) of examined or certified copies. The extent to which registration is carried varies very much in different countries. For obvious reasons judicial decisions are registered in all countries alike. In other matters no general rule can be laid down, except perhaps that on the whole registration is not as fully enforced in the United Kingdom and the United States as in Continental states. The most important uses of registration occur in the case of judicial proceedings, land, ships, bills of sale, births, marriages, and deaths, companies, friendly and other societies, newspapers, copyrights, patents, designs, trade marks, and professions and occupations. The registration of qualified voters in parliamentary elections in the United Kingdom is treated in a separate section below.
Judicial Proceedings.—In England registrars are attached to the privy council, the Supreme Court, and the county courts. In the Queen’s Bench Division (except in its bankruptcy jurisdiction) the duty of registrars is performed by the masters. Besides exercising limited judicial authority, registrars are responsible for the drawing ־up and recording of various stages of the proceedings from the petition, writ, or plaint to the final decision.@@1 With them are filed affidavits, depositions, pleadings, &c., when such filing is
necessary. The difference between filing and registration is that the documents filed are filed without alteration, while only an epitome is usually registered. The Judicature Act, 1873, created district registries in the chief towns, the district registrar having an authority similar to that of a registrar of the Supreme Court. In the Admiralty Division cases of account are usually referred to the registrar and merchants. The registration in the central office of the supreme court of judgments affecting lands, writs of execution, recognizances, and litespendentes in England, and the registration in Scotland of abbreviates of adjudications and of inhibitions, are governed by special legislation. All these are among the incumbrances for which search is made on investigating a title. Their satisfaction and discharge is also registered. The Conveyancing Act, 1882, provides for a certificate by the proper officer of the existence or non-existence of entries of judgments, deeds, and other matters or documents made in the central office. The certificate is conclusive in favour of a purchaser. Decisions of criminal courts are said to be recorded, not registered, except in the case of courts of summary jurisdiction, in which, by the Summary Jurisdiction Act, 1879, a register of convictions is kept. Probates of ־wills and letters of administration, which are really judicial decisions, are registered in the principal or district registries of the Probate Division. In Scotland registration'is used for giving a summary remedy on obligations without action by means of the fiction of a judicial decision having been given establishing the obligation. A clause of registration is introduced in deeds importing obligation. The various registers available for this kind, of registraton will be found in Watson, Law Diet., s.v. “ Registration.”
Land. —Registration in its relation to land is either of title or of assurances. A register of title bears on the face of it the name and description of a plot of land with more or less particularity, the name of the owner, and the charges and easements to which the land is subject. No one can go behind the entry except in case of fraud. A register of assurances or deeds contains only a copy of documents affecting title, or a memorial qr other epitome of such documents, without any authentication of the title as such. Thus a register of title would show that A was owner subject to a mortgage to B, and the purchaser would purchase such a title. A register of assurances would show in the same circumstances that a conveyance had been made to A, and that subsequently A had mortgaged to B, but the purchaser would have to make sure for himself that A and B had the right to convey and mortgage. It will be obvious that the object of registration of deeds is quite different from that of registration of title. The former aims at facilitating the search for incumbrances, the latter at abolishing search by making it unnecessary. The requisites of a registry of title are thus stated by Sir H. Maine (Early Law and Custom, 353):—
“The land registries which have the highest commendation from judicial writers are those of certain small Teutonic communities, e.g., the state of Htsse-Darmstadt and the Swiss canton of Zurich. I can here give hut a brief description of the mechanism. The land of the community is divided into a number of circumscriptions of no great area. For each of these a central office is established, with a staff of functionaries who are to some extent experts, and at eacli office a register is opened in which separate portions or groups of pages are appropriated to separate masses of land . . . When the register has once been opened, the legal history of every parcel of every area is thenceforward recorded in it, and every transfer or mortgage must be registered in it, under pain of invalidity. Whether a person wishing to sell or mortgage has the right to do so, it is the business of the staff of experts to ascertain. It is absolutely essential to the system that the register should be easily accessible, and the formalities of registration simple and cheap.”
It will appear on referring to Real Estate that before the Conquest publicity of transfer was secured by a system of record in the sliire-book or church-book. After the Conquest this publicity, continued for a time in the Domesday survey, from various causes gradually gave way to that secrecy of transfer which is now one of the peculiar features of English law. Publicity was to a certain extent secured by the court rolls in the case of copyhold lands, by the local statutes mentioned below, and by the Act enforcing the registration of rent charges and annuities charged on land (18 Viet. c. 15). There was a tendency in the same direction in those statutes which made the enrolment of deeds necessary for their validity. Such are the Statute of Enrolments, 27 Henry VIII. c. 16, the Mortmain Act, 9 Geo. II. c. 36, the Fines and Recoveries Act, 3 & 4 Will. IV. c. 74, under which an estate tail may be barred by an enrolled deed, ard Acts affecting Queen Anne’s Bounty, 1 Geo. I., st. 2, c. 10, and the Charity Commissioners, 18 & 19 Viet, c. 124. No general registry has as yet been established in England, though many attempts have been made in that direction. The question was debated as far back as the Long Parliament. General Ludlow mentions the characteristic incident “that upon the debate of ‘ registering deeds in each county for want of which, within a certain time fixed after the sale, such sales should be void, and, being so regarded, that lands should not be subject to any incumbrance,’ this word incumbrance was so managed that it took up three months’ time before it could be ascertained by the committee” (Memoirs, i. 436). In the reign of Charles II. a registry of deeds was established for the Bedford Level by 15 Car. II. c. 17. I n the reign of Anne registries of deeds and wills were established
@@@1 The antiquity of registration of this kind is proved by the age of the Registrum Brevium, or register of writs, called by Lord Coke “ a most ancient book of the Common Law” (Coke upon Littleton, 159a).
for the county of Middlesex (7 Anne c. 20), for the West Riding of Yorkshire (2 & 3 Anne c. 4), and for the East Riding and Kingston-upon-Hull (6 Anne c. 35). Similar provisions were not applied to the North Riding until 8 Geo. II. c. 6. The Yorkshire Acts were consolidated and amended by the Yorkshire Registries Act, 1884.    “ Under these Acts, all deeds are to be adjudged
fraudulent and void against any subsequent purchaser or mortgagee for valuable consideration, unless a memorial of such deeds be duly registered before the registering of the memorial of the deed under which such subsequent purchaser or mortgagee shall claim” (Williams, Real Property, pt. i. ch. x.). Priority thus depends upon the date of registration. The Acts do not extend to copyholds, to leaseholds for a term not exceeding twenty-one years, or to chambers in an Inn of Court. The full operation of the Registry Acts has been to a certain extent affected by the doctrines of equity that an equitable mortgage by deposit of deeds is valid without registration, and that notice of a prior unregistered deed is within limits equivalent to registration. “ It shall only be in cases where the notice is so clearly proved as to make it fraudulent in the purchaser to take and register a conveyance in prejudice to the known title of another that we will suffer the registered deed to be affected” (Sir William Grant in Wyatt v. Barwell, 19 Vesey’s Reports, 438). On this subject the Yorkshire Registries Act, 1884, provides by § 14 that “all priorities given by this Act shall have full effect in all cases except in cases of actual fraud, and all persons claiming thereunder any legal or equitable interests shall be entitled to corresponding priorities, and no such person shall lose any such priority merely in consequence of his having been affected with actual or constructive notice, except in cases of actual fraud. ” The Act provides for an official search of the same nature as that introduced by the Conveyancing Act, 1882, and for the entry of a caveat against registration ·by any person interested. Passing to general registration, a general registry of deeds was recommended by the real property commissioners in 1830. The royal commission of 1854 reported in 1857 in favour of general registration of title. In pursuance of this report the Land Registry Act, 1862 (“Lord Westbury’s Act”), was passed. It provided for the optional registration of such titles to freeholds and leaseholds in freeholds as a court of equity should hold to be marketable. It was of little importance in practice on account of its making a marketable title (i.e., such a title as the court would ■compel an unwilling purchaser to accept) and a definition of boundaries necessary, and of its not giving an indefeasible title in effect, though it does so in name, until there had been dealing with the land for valuable consideration subsequent to registration. The Act is still law as to titles registered under it and not reregistered under the Act of 1875. On the same day as the Land Registry Act was passed the Declaration of Title Act, 1862, under which power is given to any person entitled to apply for the registration of an indefeasible title under the Land Registry Act to apply to the Court of Chancery for a declaration of title, and the court, on proof of a marketable title, is to issue a certificate of title under the seal of the court. The Land Registry Act was condemned by the report of a royal commission in 1870. In 1875 some of the recommendations of the commission were adopted in the Land Transfer Act, 1875 (“Lord Cairns’s Act”), the latest general enactment on the subject. The Act of 1875 allows the optional registration of a title less than marketable, and the land certificate delivered to the proprietor is to state whether his title be absolute, qualified, or possessory. Two or more persons may be registered as joint proprietors. No notice of any trust is to appear on the register. To be registered land must be either freehold or leasehold for an unexpired term of at least twenty-one years. Land in Middlesex or Yorkshire registered under the Act ceases to be within the jurisdiction of the local registries. A caution against registration may be lodged by any person interested. The Act established an office of land registry under a registrar appointed by the lord chancellor. There was also a power of creating district registries, if necessary. The Act, like its predecessor, lias been very little used. A compulsory system of registration of title in England has been so universally recognized as expedient that its adoption can only be a question of time. The chief difficulties in the way of a reform are the objection of the landowners to publicity of transactions in land, the expense, greater than in other countries or in the colonies, arising from the complexity of the English law of real property, and, not least, the conservative instincts of the legal profession. One effect of registration will be to much diminish the importance of the legal doctrines of Possession and Limitation (q.v.). “It is a grave question whether the establishment of titles by long possession is consistent with a complete and efficient system of registration. In Scotland, where there is such a system, there is nothing answering to our Statute of Limitations as regards land” (Pollock, Land Laws, 169).@@1
@@@1 § 21 of the Act of 1S75 in fact provides that “ a title to any land adverse to or in derogation of the title of the registered proprietor shall not be acquired by any length of possession," ■with an exception in favour of an adverse claim where the registered title is possessory only.
Another effect will be the recurrence to the primitive legal conception of the transfer of land as a matter of public notoriety. In Ireland a registry of assurances was established by 6 Anne c. 2 (Ir.). 28 & 29 Viet. c. 88 constitutes a limited registry of title in the record of title to land which has been the subject of conveyance or declaration by the Landed Estates Court. In Scotland the present system of registration of assurances has existed since the reign of James YI. The Act 1617 c. 16 created a public register for registering within three-score days instruments of sasine as well as reversions and other writs affecting heritable property. The Act established a general register of sasines at Edinburgh and local registers. The latter were abolished by 31 & 32 Viet. c. 64. Modern Acts commencing in 1845 and consolidated in 1868 by 31 & 32 Viet. c. 101 dispense with sasine and the instrument of sasine. The recording of a conveyance with a warrant of registration indorsed now constitutes infeftment. Either the whole or part of a deed may be registered. Probative leases of thirty-one or more years may be registered under 20 & 21 Viet, c. 26. As to entails see Entail. Writs affecting land held in burgage before 1874 must be registered in the burgh register of sasines (37 & 38 Viet. c. 94, § 25). The lord clerk register’s duties under the Act of 1617 were transferred to the deputy clerk register by 42 & 43 Viet. c. 44 (see Watson, Law Diet., s.vv. “Deeds,” “ Registration”). In most of the British colonies land registration of some kind exists. The Indian Registration Act, 1866, steers a middle course between compulsory and optional registration. The registration of some assurances is compulsory, of others optional. In Australia a system of compulsory registration of title was introduced by Sir R. R. Torrens, and, after having been first adopted by the legislature of South Australia in 1858, has been generally applied by the other Australian colonies since that time. Under the South Australian Act a certificate of title is cancelled and regranted on transfer. Instruments are not effectual until registration and indorsement according to statutory forms. Mortgages have priority according to the date of registration, irrespective of notice. The registrar may demand the deposit of a map. In the United States registration of assurances is universal, but registration of title is not so generally adopted. At the date of writing, a bill for the compulsory registration of title is before the New York legislature. For the purpose of dealing with public lands of the United States a register of the land office is appointed in each land district. Returns from each land office are made to the general land office.
Ships.—The registration of ships in the British empire (other than fishing boats, the registration of which is governed by special legislation) now depends upon the Merchant Shipping Acts. The register is open only to British ships, and not more than sixty-four persons can be registered as owners of any ship. One registered owner may, however, represent the beneficial title of any number of persons. No notice of a trust can be entered on the register. Mortgages must be registered in the statutory form in order to be good against registered transferees and mortgagees. The registrar is generally in the United Kingdom the principal officer of customs for any port, abroad such person as may be named by order in council. The Merchant Shipping Act, 1854, established a “general register and record of seamen ” under a registrar-general of seamen. The Merchant Shipping Act, 1872, extended both the name and authority of this officer. Since that Act he has been called the registrar-general of shipping and seamen. Returns of shipping and seamen are transmitted to him by the local registrars. In the United States the registration of ships depends upon a series of Acts of Congress beginning in 1792. See Revised Statutes, § 4131. A register of seamen is kept by the shipping commissioner (Act of 7th June 1872, c. 322).
Bills of Sale.—By the Bills of Sale Acts, 1878 and 1882, every bill of sale is to be registered within seven clear days after the execution thereof, or, if it is executed in any place out of England, then within seven clear days after the time at which it would in the ordinary course of post arrive in England if posted immediately after execution. A bill must be re-registered every five years, if still existing. An affidavit of the time of its execution, of its due execution and attestation, and containing a description of the residence and occupation of the person making the bill and of every attesting witness, must be filed with the registrar within seven days. A transfer or assignment of a registered bill of sale need not be registered. The duties of registrar are performed by a master of the Supreme Court attached to the Queen’s Bench Division of the High Court of Justice. Provision is made for the transmission of bills of sale made by persons or affecting goods outside the London bankruptcy district to the registrars of the proper county courts. The register may be searched by any person on payment of a fee of one shilling. Similar provisions are contained in the Irish Acts of 1879 and 1883. Bills of sale are unknown in Scotland.
Births, Baptisms, Marriages, Deaths, Burials.—The registration of baptisms, marriages, and burials is said to have been first introduced by Thomas Cromwell when vicar-general in 1522, but it is
only in comparatively modern times that the registration lias been fully carried out. The registration of births, kc., in the United Kingdom depends upon a large body of statutory law. Baptisms, marriages, and burials are usually registered at the time of their occurrence, births and deaths within a certain time afterwards. The English Act 35 k 36 Viet. c. 36 forbids the charging of any fee for registration of baptism. The law of registration of births and deaths is consolidated for England by 37 & 38 Yict. c. 88, for Ireland by •43 k 44 Viet. c. 13. In Scotland it depends upon 17 & 18 Viet. c. 80, as amended by later Acts. The registration of marriages in England depends chiefly upon 4 Geo. IV. c. 76, and 6 & 7 Will. IV. c. 85 ; in Ireland upon 7 & 8 Viet. c. 81 (as to Protestants), 26 & 27 Viet. c. 90 (as to Roman Catholics); in Scotland upon 17 k 18 Viet. c. 80. The chief official charged with the administration of the Acts is the registrar-general of births, deaths, and marriages; in Scotland the office is held by the deputy clerk-register. In the United States the registration of births, marriages, and deaths is, with a few exceptions such as births and deaths at sea and marriages abroad, the subject of State and not United States legislation. Burials are regulated in England by the Burial Acts, especially the Registration of Burials Act, 1864, in Scotland by 18 k 19 Viet. c. 68. Chapels belonging to nonconformist bodies may be certified to the registrar-general (see Nonconformity). There are few enactments dealing with the subject of this paragraph which extend to the United Kingdom. Those which do so are of a special nature, such as Acts affecting friendly societies and officers and soldiers abroad. A Registration Act embracing the U nited Kingdom is much needed.
Companies.nder the Companies Act, 1862, and subsequent Companies Acts (most of which apply to the United Kingdom), commercial companies as distinguished from associations of other kinds must be registered. Any company requiring to be registered and not registered is an illegal association, and its members cannot take advantage of the limitation of liability and other benefits conferred by the Acts. The register is under the charge of the registrar-general of joint stock companies or such other registrar as the Board of Trade may appoint. The register must contain (1) the memorandum of association, including the name and objects of the proposed company and the place where its registered office is situate ; (2) the articles of association ; (3) a list of members and shareholders (or directors where there are no shareholders), and a statement of the amount held by each shareholder, and other particulars ; (4) any order of court confirming the reduction of the capital of a company ; (5) any contract duly made in writing by which a share is issued otherwise than for cash ; (6) proceedings in winding up. No trust is to appear on the register in the case of companies registered in England or Ireland. Every company must keep at its registered office a register of its members, and, if a company not divided into shares, a register of its directors or managers, and, in addition, if a limited company, a register of mortgages and charges affecting the property of the company.
Friendly Societies. — A friendly society consisting of seven members at least may be registered under the Friendly Societies Act, 1875. The name of the society and of its secretary, and of every trustee or other officer authorized to sue or to be sued in the name of the society, and also a copy of its rules, are entered on the register. There is a chief registrar of friendly societies with assistant registrars for Scotland and Ireland. Every registered society is to have a registered office. In the same registry are now registered building societies, industrial and provident societies, and trade unions.
Newspapers.—By the Newspapers Libel and Registration Act, 1881, the registrar of joint stock companies is to keep a register of the titles of newspapers and the names of their proprietors (see Newspapers, Press Laws).
Copyrights, Patents, Designs, Trade Marks.—See Copyright, Patents, Trade Mark.
Professions and Occupations.—The effect of recent legislation has been that solicitors, medical men, dentists, veterinary surgeons, chemists and druggists, seamen, lodging-house keepers, cow keepers, milk retailers, and others must be registered in accordance with various statutory provisions. Unless duly registered they cannot as a rule recover for their services. In certain other cases registration is not in name necessary, but it is practically enforced by the law regarding the entry in certain official books and documents as prima facie evidence of qualification. Thus the roll of the House of Lords is evidence that a person appearing upon it is a peer, the army list that a name contained in it is that of an officer.
Among other matters of less importance which are registered are crown debts, acknowledgments by married women, colonial stock under 40 & 41 Viet. c. 59, schemes under the Regulation of Railways Act, 1867, hospitals where lunatics are received, and (in Scotland) lunatics confined in asylums. In this place may be mentioned the peculiar privilege enjoyed by the Channel Islands : orders in council or Acts of Parliament in which they are not named do not become law in those islands until after registration in the royal courts.    (J. Wf.)
Parliamentary Registration.
England.—Prior to 1832 the right of parliamentary electors was determined at the moment of the tender of the vote at the election, or, in the event of a petition against the return, by a scrutiny, a committee of the House of Commons striking off those whose qualification was held to be insufficient, and, on the other hand, adding those who, having tendered their votes at the poll, with a good title to do so, were rejected at the time. A conspicuous feature of the Reform Act of that year was the introduction of a new mode of ascertaining the rights of electors by means of an entirely new system of published lists, subject to claims and objections, and after due inquiry and revision forming a register of voters. In forming a register the services of overseers, already existing in every parish, were called into requisition. As regards electors in counties, principally freeholders and long-lease-holders and £50 tenant farmers, under the Chandos clause, overseers have no official knowledge of the persons qualified to vote. Their duty towards providing a register of county electors consisted in giving public notice, receiving claims and objections, and making out lists of them and forwarding them to the clerk of the peace. In boroughs their primary duty was to make out lists, their rate books as overseers giving them the׳ knowledge of persons entitled under the Reform Act to vote as £10 rated occupiers, to which subsequent claims were added or objections made. In old boroughs where freemen were entitled, independently of the then new occupation franchise, the town clerk prepared the lists. Barristers were appointed to revise the lists, which eventually formed the register of voters for the ensuing year for counties and boroughs.
This procedure still forms the basis of registration, but subject to important alterations since made. Although the Act of 1832 was most carefully drawn, its provisions minutely indicating every step to be taken for the formation of a register, accompanied by precise forms, it was found insufficient in practice; and accordingly a Registration Act was passed in 1843 (6 & 7 Viet. c. 15), by which forms of precept were issued by clerks of the peace and town clerks to overseers, telling them in a compendious form what they were to do, and providing them with the necessary forms for all cases. The Representation of the People Act in 1867 introduced very important changes in the franchise,—in counties by introducing an occupation qualification distinct from any previous description of franchise either in county or borough, but having somewhat closer affinity to the £10 occupation in boroughs under the Reform Act of 1832 than to the £50 tenant occupation in counties under that Act. This county franchise was an occupation as owner or tenant of lands or tenements of ■the rateable value of £12, with the concomitants of rating to the poor rates and payment of rates; but the £12 occupation practically merged within it a large proportion of £50 tenant occupiers. The alterations effected by the Act of 1867 in the borough franchise were much more extensive. In the first })lace, the franchise was given to every inhabitant occupier as owner or tenant of any dwelling house within the borough; but rating and payment of poor rates were made essential conditions of this franchise : part of a house occupied as a separate dwelling, if separately rated, was a sufficient dwelling house to confer the franchise. Notwithstanding the apparent effect of the general enfranchisement of inhabitant occupiers, a very considerable body still depended on the former £10 franchise in consequence of the distinction between residence and inhabitancy. Secondly, the Act gave the franchise to occupiers of lodgings of a yearly value (irrespective of furniture) of £10. A Registration Act of the following year was in several important respects defective. With respect to two of the three new classes enfranchised in 1867 many doubts were indeed removed by it. The overseers were required to make out a list of £12 occupiers in counties ; on the other hand lodgers in boroughs were required under the Act of 1867 to claim to be registered. But with respect to the third class, the most numerous of all—the inhabitant occupiers in boroughs—the Act contained no direction. Notwithstanding attempts to meet these and various other defects, several years elapsed without any alteration being effected. In the meantime important electoral changes occurred. The alterations effected by the Act of 1867, besides those of qualification, the redistribution of seats, and the representation of minorities, followed by the Ballot Act of 1872, were succeeded by the innovation of mixing up regulations for the exercise of parliamentary with the municipal franchise, and led up to the fusion of the registration of the two franchises and the Parliamentary and Municipal Registration Act of 1878, introducing important changes both as regards the definition of the franchise in boroughs and the procedure in relation to registration. As regards the latter the changes recognized the combination of borough registration for the double purpose of parliamentary and municipal registration, and also the more ready preparation of accurate registers irrespective of the combination.
The legislation of 1884 and 1885 in relation to registration next requires notice. The Representation of the People Act, 1884,
enacted that a uniform household franchise and a uniform lodger franchise at elections shall be established in all counties and boroughs throughout the United Kingdom, and every man possessed of a household qualification or a lodger qualification shall, if the qualifying premises be situated in a county in England or Scotland, be entitled to be registered as a voter, and, when registered, to vote at an election for such county, and, if the qualifying premises be situated in a county or borough in Ireland, be entitled to be registered as a voter and, when registered, to vote at an election for such county or borough.
A main practical effect of the Act of 1884 was to extend to counties the franchise previously confined to boroughs in respect of inhabitant occupiers of dwelling houses, and in respect of the occupation of lodgings. At the same time the franchise in respect of occupation of lands and tenements (other than a household franchise) was assimilated in boroughs and counties and fixed at £10 a year. Independently of this extension to counties and assimilation of the household and lodger franchise, provision was made for extending the franchise to many cases of the inhabitancy of houses by persons who, in consequence of filling offices or serving others or of the tenure of the house, were deprived of the franchise, not being in law occupiers. This is commonly spoken of as the service franchise. On the other hand restrictions were placed on faggot votes in respect of rent charges. Moreover, a man is not entitled by virtue of the Act to be registered as a county voter in respect of the occupation of any dwelling house, land, or tenement situate in a borough. This Act was shortly followed by the Registration Act, 1885, assimilating the registration law applicable to the borough and county occupation franchises.
The procedure for the formation of the register, as well in counties as in boroughs, is still very complicated. In counties there are two classes of persons entitled to be registered—the one ownership voters, the other occupation voters. General but detailed instructions are sent by the clerk of the peace to overseers, accompanied by forms and copies of the existing register. On or before the 20th June the overseers publish the ownership portion of the then existing register for the parish, at the same time giving notice in a prescribed form that all persons entitled to be registered in counties in respect of the ownership of property within the parish and not upon the register, or whose qualification or address has changed, who are desirous of having their names inserted in the register, must give notice to the overseers in a prescribed published form by the 20th July. A list of such ownership claimants is published by the end of July. The occupation voters now entitled in counties to be on the register comprise a £10 occupation qualification and principally a household qualification, and also a lodger qualification. The occupation list other than that of lodgers is made out and published by the overseers. They are required to get the information, and as this information cannot be gathered in many cases from the rate books, they may require rated persons to supply them with the names of all inhabitant occupiers of their dwelling houses so that such persons (including chielly the service franchise already mentioned) may be entered in a separate column of the rate book. The lodger list is made out by the overseers from an existing list, if there be one (for in counties there can be no existing list before 1886), and by claims. In cities and boroughs the franchises (where there are no freemen) are chiefly occupation franchises, and the same general system of registration prevails as in counties in relation to the registration or occupation franchises.
With the exception of the provisions relating to the so-called service franchise already noticed, registration procedure has not been much changed by the legislation of 1884 and 1885, and in counties as well as in boroughs it mainly rests still on the Registration Act of 1843. Overseers receive their precepts in boroughs from the town clerk, as they do in counties from the clerks of the peace, and the town clerk deals with the lists of freemen where that description of franchise exists. As the household occupation and lodger franchises were introduced into boroughs in 1867, the preparation and publication of lists as to occupation franchises rests principally on the same procedure in counties and boroughs.
Ample facilities are given for fresh and amended claims and for objections made (by any one on the register) to the overseers by the 20th August and published by them in lists; and, where payment of poor rates is essential, not necessarily by the voter, but by some one (as in some occupation franchises it is), a list of persons disqualified is made out and open to inspection. While the actual exercise of the franchise is governed by the duration of the register (which in the absence of special legislation, as adopted for 1868 and for 1885, is in force for the ordinary year, viz., from 1st January), every period of qualification is computed by reference to the 15th July ; the qualification must be complete on that day, whether or not it comprises a possession or occupation for a previous definite fixed period. When payment of poor rates is part of a qualification, payment before the 15tli July of rates payable to the 15th January is sufficient. Disqualifications generally refer to their existence at the same date. As regards parochial relief, any relief within twelve months of the 15th July disqualifies. Even with regard to disqualification by office, which may be transitory and disconnected with the qualifying franchise, the existence of the disqualification on the 15th July is a bar to registration. Where a man is registered by virtue of one qualification he cannot be also registered to vote by reason of another in respect of the same property, and a qualification franchise under the Representation of the People Act, 1884, generally overrides another description of qualification; but fine distinctions sometimes exist between inhabitancy and residence in relation to different qualifications affecting the right to be on the register in respect of one description of occupation franchise rather than another. In a borough divided under the Redistribution of Scats Act, 1885, a person cannot be registered in more than one division. The duties of overseers in reference to registration extend from spring to autumn. By the 25tli of August the lists are delivered by them to the clerk of the peace in counties, and in boroughs to the town clerk. Barristers are appointed to revise the lists and hold courts for that purpose (and also for revising the municipal franchise) between the 15th September and 31st October, giving notice to the clerks of the peace in counties and town clerks of boroughs, who publish notice of the sittings appointed and attend and deliver the lists, the overseers also attending. They hold open courts (the localities including all polling places in counties) on appointed days, with evening sittings in populous places, with, general powers of adjournment. A right of appeal exists from a revising barrister’s decision on the points of law, by a claimant or objector, to judges of the High Court of Justice. Whether the right of appeal is exercised or not, the lists, as settled and signed by the barrister, are transmitted by him to the clerk of the peace or town clerk as the case may be. The lists are copied and printed in such manner and form that the list of voters for every parish appeals separately and with reference to polling places. By the end of December the printed lists signed by the clerk of the peace are delivered to the sheriff of the county, and signed borough lists are delivered by the town clerk to the returning officer. The register is thus completed, and the book constitutes the register of persons entitled to vote for the county or borough to which it relates at any election which takes place during the year commencing on the 1st January next after such register is made.
For some years after the passing of the Reform Act, 1832, an elector was allowed, previous to voting, to be interrogated as to the possession of the qualification for which his name was inserted on the register; but since 1843 no inquiry is permitted at the time of polling as to the right of any person to vote, except as to his identity with the name appearing on the register and as to his having already voted ; he may be required to give his answers on oath, but without an oath a false answer wilfully made is an indictable misdemeanour. With this exception it is unlawful to require any voter to take an oath in proof of his qualification or right to vote, or to reject any vote tendered by any person whose name is upon the register ; and no scrutiny is allowed by or before any returning officer with regard to any vote given or tendered at an election. A great effort, partially successful, was made in 1885 to transfer the cost of forming the register from local to imperial funds. A part of the cost is now borne by the state. The remuneration of revising barristers is paid by the treasury.
Scotland. —In Scotland as in England a system of registration was established in 1832 (2 & 3 Will. IV. c. 65), aud, passing over amendments on the extension and assimilation of county and burgh franchises by the Representation of the People Act, 1884, establishing a general household qualification in the United Kingdom, the principles of registration adopted in England by the Registration Act, 1885, were applied with some modifications to Scotland by the Registration Amendment (Sccitland) Act, 1885. An annual revision of the register (founded on the valuation roll) is made by appointed officers, with the publication of lists and of names of parties interested making claims and objections. Instead, however, of the duties of publication and primary correction being in the hands of the parish officers, as in England, those duties devolve as before on assessors (aided in burghs by the town clerks), who make up the register. The duties of final revision devolve on the sheriff, who authenticates the register, and it is delivered to the sheriff clerk with the names duly arranged. The principal expenses of registration are provided from local or county sources, with a contribution from imperial funds.
Ireland.—In Ireland also the registration of voters was a feature of the reform in parliament effected in 1832, and the same gene;al features as to the formation and amendment of the register prevail as in England. The extension and assimilation of the franchise by the Representation of the People Act, 1884, is carried out by the Parliamentary Registration (Ireland) Act, 1885, on the same lines as before, only adapted to peculiar exigencies. Clerks of poor-law unions have still many of the duties of parochial officers in England. Prominent among recent divergencies is the proviso that temporary eviction for non-payment of rent followed by reinstalment does not disqualify a claim to occupation franchise.
Revision is made at special sessions before assistant barristers, or, in counties, before the chairman. The register, when completed, is placed in the hands of the sheriff in counties and of the returning officer in boroughs. The expenses of registration are defrayed from local sources, with a contribution from imperial funds.
Universities.—The Reform Act of 1832 made no change in the university representation. Special provisions affect the electoral roll of universities returning members of parliament.
London Freemen.—There are also special provisions as to the registration of freemen in the City of London.    (J. E. D.)
REGNARD, Jean François (1656-1709), who in general estimation ranks next to Molière among French comic dramatists, was born at Paris in 1656, and daring at least the earlier part of his life had a singularly adventurous career considering his time, station, and country. His father was a rich shopkeeper, who educated his son carefully, and died when he was about twenty, leaving Regnard master of what was for the time a considerable fortune. Regnard, who was apparently beyond his day in affection for travelling, set off at once for Italy and there gambled perseveringly. A young tradesman’s son in such circumstances ought, according to precedent and poetical justice, to have been fleeced to his last penny; but Regnard, according to the story, increased his fortune by ten thousand crowns. In Italy (on his second visit according to some authorities) he met and fell in love with a young married lady of Provençal birth. With her and her husband (it is difficult not to believe that biographers have taken the facts of a short autobiographical romance which Regnard wrote, under the title of La Provençale, rather literally) he set out for France on board an English frigate. This was attacked by two Algerian rovers; the captain and the crew were cut to pieces, and the passengers taken to Algiers and sold. Regnard, who, being skilful in cookery, was a valuable slave, is said to have been taken by his master to Constantinople, but after about two years’ captivity he was ransomed with his lady love for twelve thousand livres. The husband was supposed to be dead, and Regnard was preparing to marry the widow when a proper time of mourning had elapsed, but the husband reappeared and the lover was disappointed. The disappointment set him once more on a roving life, and he journeyed by Holland, Denmark, and Sweden to Lapland, and thence by Poland, Turkey, Hungary, and Germany back to France, having commemorated what was then the somewhat extraordinary feat of visiting the head of the Gulf of Bothnia by a Latin inscription on the rocks, which was visible thirty years later. He returned to Paris at the end of 1683. He now appears to have entirely exhausted his roving inclinations, and for the second half of his life (for this date of December 1683 nearly bisects it) his existence, if not exactly sedentary, was divided between luxury and letters. He bought the place of treasurer of France in the Paris district; he had a house at Paris in the Rue Richelieu; and he acquired the small estate of Grillon near Dourdan (about equidistant between Rambouillet and Fontainebleau), where he hunted, feasted, and wrote comedies. This latter amusement he began in 1688 with a piece called Le Divorce, which was performed at the Théâtre Italien, and followed it up with many other small pieces, which are not, however, his titles to fame. He gained access to the Théâtre Français in 1694 with a slight piece called Attendez-moi sous VOrme, and two years later produced there the masterly comedy of Le Joueur, in reference to which his ally Dufresny attempted to make out a charge of plagiarism. Le Distrait (1697), Le Retour Imprévu (1700), Les Folies Amoureuses (1704), Les Menèchmes (1705), a clever following of Plautus, and, lastly, his masterpiece, Le Légataire Universel (1708), with one or two less meritorious pieces, were also produced at the Français.
Regnard’s death, after a quarter of a century of quiet
living, renews the doubtful and romantic circumstances of his earlier life. Some hint at poison ; there is a wild and wonderful story of his having deliberately made up a prescription of horse medicine for himself and taken it with fatal consequences ; while other more prosaic accounts give as the cause of death his having gone out hunting while under an ordinary course of treatment, and on his return, when much heated, having swallowed a large quantity of iced water. At any rate he died on the 4th September 1709.
Besides the plays noticed above and others, Regnard wrote a certain number of miscellaneous poems, the above-mentioned novel of La Provençale, and several short accounts iu prose of his travels. He quarrelled with Boileau and was reconciled with him, owing to which fact the expressions of that critic concerning Reguard’s literary merit were not wholly consistent. The saying, however, which is attributed to him when some one, thinking to curry favour, remarked that Regnard was only a mediocre poet, ‘ ‘ 11 n’est pas médiocrement gai,” is both true and very appropriate. Regnard’s verse is not particularly good (in his non-dramatic work it is sometimes positively bad), and his French style, especially in his purely prose works, is not considered faultless. He is often unoriginal in his plots, and, whether Dufresny was or was not justified in his complaint about Le Joueur, it seems likely that Regnard owed not a little to him and to others ; but he had a thorough grasp of comic situation and incident and a most amusing faculty of dialogue. He is often not far from the verge of farce, but he certainly might plead Molière’s example in this respect. There is no trace in him of Molière’s ethical value, and he is seldom a serious critic of society and life, while in point of refinement of incident and language his drama is a distinct relapse from his master’s. But there are few things in artificial comedy more amusing and more dexterously managed than the series of devices whereby the miserly uncle of Le Légataire Universel is brought to make his nephew rich and happy.
The first edition of Regnard’s complete works was published in 1731 (5 vois., Paris), one of the last in 1854 (2 vols.). There is a good selection of almost everything important in the Collection Didot.
REGNAULT, Henri (1843-1871), French painter, born at Paris on the 31st October 1843, was the son of Henri Victor Régnault (noticed below). On leaving school he successively entered the studios of Montfort, Lamothe, and Cabanel, was beaten for the Great Prize (1863) by Layraud and Montchablon, and in 1864 exhibited two portraits in no wise remarkable at the Salon. Nothing, in short, produced by Régnault up to 1866 led men to suspect the brilliancy of his endowments, but in that year he made a mark, carrying off the Great Prize with a work of unusual force and distinction—Thetis bringing the Arms forged by Vulcan to Achilles (School of the Fine Arts). The past and the works of the past in Italy did not touch him, but his illustrations to Wey’s Rome show how observant he was of actual life and manners ; even his Automedon (School of Fine Arts), executed in obedience to Academical regulations, was but a lively recollection of a carnival horse race. At Rome, moreover, Régnault came into contact with the modern Hispano-Italian school, a school highly materialistic in its aims and tendencies, and inclined to regard even the human subject only as one amongst many sources whence to obtain amusement for the eye. The vital, if narrow, energy of this school told on Régnault with ever-increasing force during the few remaining years of his life. In 1868 he had sent to the Salon a life-size portrait of a lady in which he had made one of the first attempts to render the actual character of fashionable modern life, and, on his return from a visit to the exhibition, he seized the opportunity of making a tour in Spain. There he saw Prim pass at the head of his troops, and received that lively image of a military demagogue which he afterwards put on canvas somewhat to the displeasure of his subject. But this work made an appeal to the imagination of the public, whilst all the later productions of Régnault were addressed exclusively to the eye. After a further flight to Africa, abridged by the necessities of his position as a pensioner of the school of Rome, he painted Judith, then (1870) Salome, and, as
.a work due from the Roman school, despatched from Tangiers the large canvas, Execution without Hearing under the Moorish Kings, in which the painter had played with the blood of the victim as were he a jeweller toying with rubies. The war arose, and found Régnault foremost in the devoted ranks of Buzenval, where he fell on January 19, 1871.
See Correspondance de II. Régnault ; Duparc, II. Régnault, sa vie et son œuvre ; Cazalis, H. Régnault, 1843-1871 ; Baillière, Les artistes de mon temps ; C. Blanc, H. Régnault ; P. Mantz, Gazette du Beaux Arts, 1872.
REGNAULT, Henri Victor (1811-1878), was born on July 21, 1811, at Aix-la-Chapelle. His early life was a struggle with poverty. When a boy he went to Paris, and after a time succeeded in obtaining a situation in a large drapery establishment, where he remained, occupying every spare hour in study, until he was in his twentieth year. Then he entered the École Polytechnique, and, after making the best use of his increased opportunities, passed in 1832 to the Ecole des Mines, where he developed an aptitude for experimental chemistry.
A few years later he was appointed to a professorship of chemistry at Lyons, and devoted himself to research amongst organic compounds. He paid little attention to theories and cared only for facts ; but, by his unequivocal proof of the substitution of chlorine for hydrogen in hydrocarbons, he greatly assisted his countrymen Laurent and Dumas in establishing the type-theory of organic compounds. Regnault’s most important chemical work was a series of researches, commenced in 1835, on the haloid and other derivatives of unsaturated hydrocarbons. This made him the discoverer of the vinyl group of compounds, carbon tetrachloride (CC14 ), and of perchlorether (C4 Cl10 O). He studied many of the natural alkaloids and organic acids, introduced a classification of the metals according to the facility with which they or their sulphides are oxidized by steam at high temperatures, and effected a comparison of the chemical composition of atmospheric air from all parts of the world.
In 1840 Régnault was recalled to Paris by his appointment to the chair of chemistry in the École Polytechnique ; at the same time he was elected a member of the Académie des Sciences, in the chemical section, in room of M. Robiquet ; and in the following year he became professor of physics in the Collège de Prance, there succeeding Dulong, his old master, and in many respects his model. From this time Régnault devoted almost all his attention to practical physics; but in 1847 he published a four-volume treatise on Chemistry which was highly esteemed and has been translated into many languages.
Régnault is perhaps best known by his careful redetermination of the specific heats of all the elements obtainable, and of many compounds—solids, liquids, and gases—by which he was enabled to correct the values obtained by Dulong and Petit, and to reduce the number of exceptions to their law that the specific heat of an element varies inversely as its atomic weight, and of a compound as its molecular weight. He investigated the expansibility of gases by heat, determined the coefficient for air as 003663־, and showed that, contrary to previous opinion, no two gases had precisely the same rate of expansion. By numerous delicate experiments he proved Boyle’s law that the volume of a gas is inversely as the pressure it supports to be only approximately true, and that those gases which are most readily liquefied diverge most widely from obedience to the law. Régnault studied the whole subject of thermometry critically; he introduced the use of an accurate air-thermometer, and compared its indications with those of a mercurial thermometer, determining the absolute dilatation of mercury by heat as a step in the process. He also paid attention to hygrometry and devised a hygrometer in which a cooled metal surface is used for the deposition of moisture.
In 1854 he was appointed to succeed Ebelman as director of the celebrated porcelain manufactory at Sèvres. He carried on the great research on the expansion of gases in the laboratory at Sèvres, but all the results of his latest work were destroyed during the Franco-German War, in which also his son Henri (noticed above) was killed. Régnault never recovered the double blow, and, although he lived until January 19, 1878, his scientific labours ended in 1872. He wrote more than eighty papers on scientific subjects, and he made fine researches, many of them of importance, in conjunction with other workers. His greatest work, bearing on the practical treatment of steam-engines, forms vol. xxi. of the Mémoires de l'Académie des Sciences.
Régnault was great as a laborious worker ; in all his researches he overcame every difficulty by his determined perseverance, his unusual natural ingenuity in devising apparatus, and his rare power of manipulation. Although few discoveries are associated with his name, the mass of physical constants which he determined with the utmost accuracy constitutes a powerful instrument of further advance, and the thorough training which he gave his students has provided many painstaking and exact workers in the field of physics.
REGNAL’LT, Jean Baptiste, French painter, was born at Paris on 9th October 1754, and died in the same city on November 12, 1829. He began life at sea in a merchant vessel, but at the age of fifteen his talent attracted attention and he was sent to Italy by M. de Monval under the care of Bardin. After his return to Paris, Régnault, in 1776, obtained the Great Prize, andin 1783 he was elected Academician. His diploma picture, the Education of Achilles by Chiron, is now in the Louvre, as also the Christ taken down from the Cross, originally executed for the royal chapel at Fontainebleau, and two minor works— the Origin of Painting and Pygmalion praying Venus to give Life to his Statue. Besides various small pictures and allegorical subjects, Régnault was also the author of many large historical paintings ; and his school, which reckoned amongst its chief attendants Guérin, Crepin, Lafitte, Blondel, Robert Lefevre, and Menjaud, was for a long while the rival in influence of that of David.
REGNIER, Mathurin (1573-1613), the greatest satirist of France, was born at Chartres on the 21st December 1573. His father, Jacques Regnier, was a bourgeois of good means and position ; his mother, Simonne Desportes, was the sister of the poetical Abbé Desportes, one of the most distinguished of the disciples of Ronsard. Desportes, who was richly beneficed and in great favour at court, seems to have been regarded at once as Mathurin Regnier’s natural protector and patron, and the boy himself, with a view to his following in his uncle’s steps, was tonsured at nine years old. It appears that Jacques Regnier, at any rate for a time, encouraged his son to imitate his uncle in poetry also, though he afterwards changed his views. The boy was somewhat early introduced to general society of the jovial kind, for his father built a tennis court at the end of his garden which became semipublic and was much frequented. The poet’s enemies said that his father had been a common gaming-house keeper, and that the court was built with the ruins of some church property ; but this seems to be mere scandal. Little is known of his youth, and it is chiefly conjecture which fixes the date of his visit to Italy in the suite of the Cardinal de Joyeuse in 1586. Others give 1583 and 1593, but the former date is certainly too early, and the latter probably too late. Indeed the greatest uncertainty exists as to the dates and incidents of Regnier’s short life, and his biographers hitherto have chiefly busied themselves in
upsetting each others’ facts without supplying fresh details of an authentic character. It is commonly said that the poet, finding Joyeuse an inactive or unwilling patron, transferred his services to Philippe de Bethune, Sully’s brother, who went as ambassador to Rome in 1601 ; but this seems doubtful, for one of the very few positive documents concerning Régnier speaks of him as still in Joyeuse’s service a year later. What is generally certain is that during the greater part of his youth he lived partly in Paris and partly in Italy, after a somewhat idle and very dissipated fashion. He early began the practice of satirical writing, and the enmity which existed between his uncle Desportes and the j poet Malherbe gave him occasion to attack the latter in some of his very best verses. It has been generally said that Regnier obtained full possession of a canonry at Chartres, to the reversion of which he had been appointed when a child, in 1604, and a singular legend is told of the immediate circumstances ; but the formal registry of admission signed by himself is extant, and is dated 1609, a further instance of the uncertainty which prevails respecting him. In 1606 Desportes died, leaving nothing to Regnier, though they seem to have been on excellent terms to the last. The poet was even disappointed of the succession to Desportes’s abbacies, but he obtained a pension (the amount as usual variously stated at 2000 and 6000 livres) chargeable upon one of them, by the influence of the Marquis de Cœuvres, afterwards Maréchal d’Estrées, the brother of Henry IV.’s Gabrielle. He also became a great favourite with his bishop, Philippe Hurault, at whose abbacy of Royaumont Regnier spent much time in the later years of his life. On the other hand the death of Henry IV. deprived him of his last hope of great preferments, and appears to have considerably soured his temper. He did not long survive the king. His life had always been one of dissipation, or, to speak frankly, debauchery, and in the autumn of 1613 he went to Rouen to put himself under the care of a quack doctor. An apparent cure was followed by a feast at which the patient drank his physician’s health too freely in strong Spanish wine, and died of pleurisy or fever at his hotel, the Écu d’Orléans, on the 13th October. His body was disembowelled and the entrails deposited in the parish church, that of St Marie Mineure, the other remains being carried to Royaumont and buried there.
Such is the meagre amount of positive knowledge respecting one of the greatest poets of France. Nor can it be said that llegnier’s literary history is quite accurately ascertained, though it is less dubious than his personal. The period immediately preceding and following his death was a period of numerous collections of licentious and satirical poems, some published, some still remaining in manuscript. Gathered from these there has been a floating mass of epigrams, &c., attributed to llegnier, few of which are certainly authentic, and most of which do no particular credit to his memory. On these editors of his works have exercised freely the light of acceptance or rejection, so that it is very rare to find two editions of Regnier which exactly agree in contents. His acknowledged or undoubted work, however, is that on which his fame rests, and it falls into three classes :—regular satires in alexandrine couplets, serious poems in various metres, and satirical or jocular epigrams and light pieces, which often, if not always, exhibit considerable licence of language. This latter class is, however, much the least important in every way. The real greatness of Regnier consists in the vigour and polish of his satires, contrasted and heightened as that vigour is with the exquisite feeling and melancholy music of some of his minor poems. In the latter Regnier is a disciple of Ronsard (whom he defended brilliantly against Malherbe), without the occasional pedantry, the affectation, or the undue fluency of the Pléiade, but in the satires he had hardly any master (Vauquelin de la Fresnaye and Agrippa d’Aubigné, who preceded him in point of composition, did not publish their satires until later) except the ancients. He has sometimes followed Horace closely, hut always in an entirely original spirit. His vocabulary is varied and picturesque, but is not marred by the maladroit classicism of some of the Ronsardists. His verse is extraordinarily forcible and nervous, but what distinguishes him especially from most satirists is the way in which he gets the better of what may be called the commonplaces of satire, and to a great extent at any
rate avoids the tendency of all French poetry to run into types. His keen and accurate knowledge of human nature and even his purely literary qualities extorted the admiration of Boileau— usually the severest of critics in regard to all poets of the ¡!receding age except Malherbe. Regnier, moreover, in respect of !Malherbe has himself displayed remarkable independence and acuteness of literary criticism, and the famous passage in which he satirizes the poet of Caen contains the best denunciation of the merely “ correct ” theory of poetry that has ever been written. Lastly, Regnier had a most unusual descriptive faculty, and the vividness of what may be called his narrative satires was not approached in France for at least two centuries after his death. All his merits are displayed in the masterpiece entitled Macctte ou VHypocrisie déconcertée, but 1 hardly any one of the sixteen satires which he has left falls below j even a very high standard. In general it may bo said that Regnier is the last poet who shows the poetic faculties of the French tongue before the classical reforms of the 17tli century had cramped and curtailed them, and that he shows these faculties in something like perfection.
The first edition of Regniei’s satires appeared in 1G08 published by Gabriel Bnon. There was another in 1609, and another in 1012. The author had also contributed to two collection.·.—Les Muses Gaillardes in 1009 and Le Temple d'Apollon in 1611. In the year of hi* death (1613) a completer collection appeared, and another in 1610. The chief editions of the 18th ci ntnry are that of Urossette (1729), which supplies the standard commentary on Regifur, and that of Lenglet Dufresnoy (1733). Recently the poet has been frequently and carefully reprinted. The editions of Prosper Poitevin in I860, of M. de Barthélemy in 1862, and of M. Courbet in 1875 may be specially mentioned. The last, printed after the originals in italic type, and well edited, is perhaps the best, as M. de Barthélémy’* is the tullest, of recent copies.
REGULUS, Marcus Atilius, was consul for the second time in the ninth year of the First Punic War (256 b.c.), and so was one of the commanders in the great naval expedition which shattered the Carthaginian fleet and successfully lauded an army on Carthaginian territory at Clupea. At first the invaders had such success that half the army and the other consul Manlius could be recalled to Rome, and yet leave good hope that Regulus with the insurgent Numidian subjects of the Phoenicians would finish the war in the second campaign. But Carthage, which had found an able general in the Spartan Xanthippus, used the I winter to such good account that in the spring of 255 Regulus was decidedly inferior in strength, and, hazarding a pitched battle on ground favourable to the enemy, had his army cut to pieces and was hitnself taken captive. Regulus perished in captivity, and was supposed at Rome to have been done to death : according to the common story he was sent to Rome on parole to negotiate a peace or exchange of prisoners, but on his arrival strongly urged the senate to refuse both proposals, and returning to Carthage was slain with horrid tortures. This is the story so eloquently told by Horace (Carvi. iii. 5), and which made Regulus to the later Romans the type of heroic endurance in misfortune ; but most critical historians regard it as i insufficiently attested, Polybius being silent.
REICHA, Anton Joseph (1770-1836), musical theorist and teacher of composition, was born at Prague, February 27, 1770, and educated chiefly by his uncle,
| Joseph Reicha (1746-1795), a clever violoncellist, who first received him into his house at Wallerstein in Bohemia, and afterwards carried him to Bonn. He ! studied hard, and began to compose at a very early age,— producing, during the course of a long and active life, a vast quantity of church music, five operas, a number of symphonies, oratorios, and many miscellaneous works. Though clever and ingenious, his compositions are more remarkable for their novelty than for the beauty of the ideas upon which they are based, and display but little of the divine fire which alone can render works of art immortal. His fame is, indeed, more securely based upon his didactic works than upon the results of his theories as exemplified in his own productions. His Traité de Mélodie (Paris, 1814), Cours de Composition Musicale (Paris, 1818), Traité de Haute Composition Musicale (Paris, 1824-1826), and AH du Compositeur Dramatique (Paris, 1833) are valuable and instructive essays, containing much that is new and interesting ; and, though many of the theories they
set forth are now condemned as erroneous, they can scarcely be read without profit to the student.
Reicha first visited Paris in 1799. In 1802 he removed to Vienna, where he spent some happy years in close intercourse with Beethoven, and the veteran Haydn. His permanent settlement at Paris took place in 1808. In 1817 he succeeded Mehul as professor of counterpoint at the Conservatoire. In 1831 he was made a knight of the Legion of Honour; and in 1835 he was admitted as a member of the Institute in the place of Boieldieu. He died at Paris, May 28, 1836.
REICHENAU, a picturesque island in the Untersee or western arm of the lake of Constance, is 3 miles in length by 1 in breadth, and is connected with the east bank by a causeway three quarters of a mile long. It belongs to the duchy of Baden, and comprises the three parishes of Ober-zell, Mittelzell, and Unterzell, with a joint population of 1463 in 1880. The soil is very fertile, and excellent wine is produced in sufficient quantity for exportation. The Benedictine abbey of Reichenau, founded in 724, was long celebrated for its wealth and for the services rendered by its monks to the cause of learning. In 1538 the abbey, which had previously been independent, was subordinated to the see of Constance, and in 1799 it was secularized. The abbey church, dating in part from the 9th century, contains the tomb of Charles the Fat, who retired to this island in 887, after losing the empire of Charlemagne. It now serves as the parish church of Mittelzell, and the churches of Oberzell and Unterzell are also interesting buildings of the Carlovingian era.
REICHENBACH, a manufacturing town of Saxony, in the province of Zwickau, lies in the hilly district known as the Voigtland, 50 miles to the south of Leipsic. The chief industrial products are woollen cloth, merino, cashmere, flannel, and shawls. Its importance is of recent origin, and the population, amounting to 16,509 in 1880, has trebled itself within the last fifty years. The earliest notice of the town occurs in a document of 1212, and it acquired municipal rights in 1367.
REICHENBACH, a cotton-manufacturing town of Prussian Silesia, with 7225 inhabitants (1880) and an old castle, lies 30 miles to the south-south-west of Breslau, and demands mention chiefly from its connexion with several important historical events. In 1762 Frederick the Great gained a victory here over the Austrians; by the Reichen-bach convention of 1790 England and the other powers guaranteed the subsistence of the Turkish empire; and in 1813 a treaty, afterwards ratified at Prague, was concluded here between Austria and the allies.
REICHENBACH, Georg von (1772-1826), astronomical instrument maker, was born at Durlach in Baden on August 24, 1772. He first served as an officer of artillery, and afterwards held several civil appointments in Bavaria. Already from 1796 he was occupied with the construction of a dividing engine; in 1804 he founded, with Liebherr and Utzschneider, an instrumentmaking business in Munich; and in 1809 he established, with Fraunhofer and Utzschneider, equally important optical works at Benedictbeuern, which were moved to Munich in 1823. He withdrew from both enterprises in 1814, and founded with Ertel a new optical business, from which also he retired in 1820. He died at Munich on May 21, 1826.
Reichenbach’s principal merit is his having introduced into observatories the meridian or transit circle, combining the transit instrument and the mural circle into one instrument. This had already been done by Roemer about 1704, but the idea had not been adopted by any one else, the only exception being the transit circle constructed by Troughton for Groombridge in 1806. The transit circle in the form given it by Reichenbach had one finely-divided circle attached to one end of the horizontal axis and read
by four verniers on an “Alhidade Circle,” the unaltered position of which was tested by a spirit level. The instrument came almost at once into universal use on the Continent (the first one was made for Bessel in 1819), but in England the mural circle and transit instrument were not superseded for many years.
REICHENBERG (Bohem. Liberec), a town of Bohemia, with an independent jurisdiction, lies on the Neisse, about 50 miles to the north-east of Prague and not far from the Saxon and Prussian frontiers. It is the centre of the important cloth manufacture of northern Bohemia, and is the third town of Bohemia in size and the second in industrial importance. Its cloth factories employ about 7000 workpeople and produce goods to the annual value of upwards of a million sterling, while weaving is also extensively prosecuted as a domestic industry. Other important manufactures are cotton, yarn, machinery, and liqueur. Trade is carried on in the raw materials and finished products of the various industries. The most prominent buildings are the town-house, of 1601; the chateau of Count Clam Gallas; the Dekanalkirche, of the 16th century; the Protestant church, a handsome modern Romanesque edifice; the hall of the cloth-workers ; the new law courts; the new theatre; and the weaving school. The population in 1880 was 28,090.
Reichenberg is first mentioned in a document of 1348, and from 1622 to 1634 was among the possessions of the great Wallenstein, since whose death it has belonged to the Gallas and Clam Gallas families. The woollen industry was introduced about the middle of the 16th century. In 1866 Reichenberg was the headquarters of Prince Charles Frederick of Prussia.
REICHENHALL, a small town and watering-place of Upper Bavaria, is finely situated in an amphitheatre of lofty mountains, on the river Saale or Saalach, 1570 feet above the level of the sea and 9 miles to the south-west of Salzburg. As indicated by its name, in which the syllable hall corresponds, according to a well-known linguistic law, to the Latin sal, Reichenhall possesses several copious saline springs, producing upwards of 11,500 tons of salt per annum. The water of some of the springs, the sources of which are 50 feet below the surface of the soil, is so strongly saturated with salt (up to 24 per cent.) that it is at once conducted to the boiling houses, while that of the others is first submitted to a process of evaporation. Reichenhall is the centre of the four chief Bavarian saltworks, which are connected with each other by brine conduits having an aggregate length of 60 miles. The surplus brine of Berchtesgaden is conducted to Reichenhall, and thence, in increased volume, to Traunstein and Rosenheim, which possess larger supplies of timber for use as fuel in the process of boiling. Since 1846 Reichenhall has become one of the most fashionable spas in Germany, and it is now visited annually by about five thousand patients, besides many thousand passing tourists. The resident population in 1880 was 3271, almost all Roman Catholics. The saline springs are used both for drinking and bathing, and are said to be efficacious in scrofula and incipient tuberculosis. In addition to numerous large hotels, the most prominent edifices are the Romanesque church, recently restored, and the handsome and extensive buildings of the salt-works.
The brine springs of Reichenhall are mentioned in a document of the 8th century, and were perhaps known to the Romans ; but almost all trace of the antiquity of the town was destroyed by a conflagration in 1834. The brine conduit to Traunstein dates from 1618. The environs abound in numerous charming Alpine excursions.
REICHSTADT, Duke of. See Napoleon II. (vol. xvii. p. 226). The title is derived from the little towu of Reichstadt in northern Bohemia.
REID, Mayne (1818-1883), captain in the United States army, was in his generation one of the most popular of writers of stories of adventure. His own early life was
as adventurous as any boy reader of his novels could desire. He was a native of Ulster, born in 1818, and was educated for the church, but, disliking the prospect of a regular profession, went to America at the age of twenty in search of excitement and fortune. Among other experiences he made trading excursions on the Red River, and studied the ways of the retiring red man and the white pioneer on the spot. He made acquaintance with the Missouri in the same practical manner, and roved about through all the States of the Union. When the war with Mexico broke out in 1845 he obtained a commission, was present at the siege and capture of Vera Cruz, and led a forlorn hope at Chapultepec. In one of his novels he says that he believed theoretically in the military value of untrained troops, and that he had found his theories confirmed in actual warfare. But, though he saw a good deal of service in America, he was disappointed in his plans for taking part in a conflict with the regular troops of a European country. An enthusiastic republican, he offered his services to the Hungarian insurgents in 1849, raised a body of volunteers, and sailed for Europe, but arrived too late. Thereafter he settled in England, and began his career of a novelist in 1849 with the Rifle Rangers. This was followed next year by the Scalp Hunters. He never surpassed his first productions, except perhaps in The White Chief (1855) and The Quadroon (1856); but he continued to produce tales of self-reliant enterprise and exciting adventure with great fertility. Simplicity of plot and easy variety of exciting incident are among the merits that contribute to his popularity with boys. His reflexions are not profound, but are frequently more sensible than might be presumed at first sight from his aggressive manner of expressing them. He died in London, October 22, 1883.
REID, Thomas (1710-1796), the chief founder of what is generally designated the Scottish school of philosophy, was born at Strachan in Kincardineshire, about 20 miles from Aberdeen, on the 26th April 1710. His father was minister of the place for fifty years, and traced his descent from a long line of Presbyterian ministers on Deeside. His mother belonged to the brilliant family of the Gregorys, which gave so many representatives to literature and science in Scotland last century. After two years at the parish school of Kincardine, Thomas Reid entered Marischal College, Aberdeen, in 1722. He was instructed in philosophy by Dr George Turnbull, in his day a voluminous and versatile writer, but now almost entirely forgotten. Turnbull’s teaching would appear, from the account given of it by M‘Cosh, to have anticipated and suggested certain characteristics of Reid’s subsequent theory. Reid graduated in 1726 at the early age of sixteen, but remained in Aberdeen as librarian to the university for ten years longer. This may be looked upon as his real student-time, and it seems to have been largely devoted to mathematical reading. In 1737 he was presented to the living of Newmachar near Aberdeen. The parishioners, being violently excited at the time about the law of patronage, received Reid with open hostility; and tradition asserts that, during the preaching of his first sermon, an uncle who lived near defended him on the pulpit stair with a drawn sword. But before he left the parish he was completely successful in winning the affections of his people. He was, however, nowise distinguished as a preacher, being accustomed “ from a distrust in his own powers,” as Stewart puts it, “ to preach the sermons of Dr Tillotson and of Dr Evans.” The greater part of his time was given to study; and, instigated by the publication of Hume’s treatise, he now turned his chief attention to philosophy, and in particular to the theory of external perception. His first publication, however, which dealt with a question of philosophical
method suggested by the reading of Hutcheson, was more nearly allied to his mathematical studies. The “Essay on Quantity, occasioned by reading a Treatise in which Simple and Compound Ratios are applied to Virtue and Merit,” denies that a mathematical treatment of moral subjects is possible. The essay appeared in the Transactions of the Royal Society for the year 1748. Before this, in 1740, Reid had married a cousin of his own, the daughter of a London physician. In 1752 the professors of King’s College, Aberdeen, elected him to the chair of philosophy, which he held for the next twelve years. The foundation of the Aberdeen Philosophical Society, which numbered among its members Campbell, Beattie, Gerard, and Dr John Gregory, was mainly owing to the exertions of Reid, who was secretary for the first year (1758). Many of the subjects of discussion were drawn from Hume’s speculations; and during the last years of his stay in Aberdeen Reid propounded his new point of view in several papers read before the society. Thus we find from the minutes that on the 13th and 26th of July 1758 Mr Reid “handled” the following questions:— “ Are the objects of the human mind properly divided into impressions and ideas 1 And must every idea be a copy of a preceding impression 1 ” The reply to Hume which these titles foreshadow was embodied by Reid in his Enquiry into the Human Mind on the Principles of Common Sense, published in 1764. The Enquiry does not go beyond an analysis of sense perception, and is therefore more limited in its scope than the later Essays·, but if the latter are sometimes more mature, there is more freshness about the earlier work. The same year saw Reid’s removal from Aberdeen to the professorship of moral philosophy in the university of Glasgow, where he succeeded Adam Smith. This position he continued to hold till 1781, when he resigned his chair in order to give his undivided energies to completing a systematic exposition of his philosophy. As a public teacher, Reid did not possess the eloquence and charm of manner which afterwards characterized both Stewart and Brown. Stewart’s account of his lecturing, which may be presumed to be favourable, mentions only the “silent and respectful attention ” which was accorded to “ the simplicity and perspicuity of his style ” and “ the gravity and authority of his character.” Reid’s philosophical influence was mainly exerted through his writings, and, at second hand, through the eloquent treatment which his doctrines received at the hands of Dugald Stewart, and the learning which Hamilton subsequently devoted to their elucidation. The Essays on the Intellectual Powers of Man appeared in 1785, and their ethical complement, the Essays on the Active Powers of the Human Mind, in 1788. These, with an account of Aristotle’s Logic appended to Lord Karnes’s Sketches of the History of Man (1774), conclude the list of Avorks published in Reid’s lifetime. Hamilton’s edition of Reid also contains an account of the university of Glasgow and a selection of Reid’s letters, chiefly addressed to his Aberdeen friends the Skenes, to Lord Karnes, and to Dr James Gregory. With the two last-named he discusses the materialism of Priestley and the theory of necessitarianism. He reverted in his old age to the mathematical pursuits of his earlier years, and his ardour for knowledge of every kind remained fresh to the last. But in 1792 the serenity which marked the concluding years of his life AAr as clouded by the death of his Avife. All the children of their marriage except one daughter had died many years before. In other respects Reid’s life pursued its equable and uneventful course till within a few weeks of his death, which took place on the 7th October 1796.
The kev to Reid’s whole philosophy is to be found in
his revulsion from the sceptical conclusions of Hume. In several passages of his writings he expressly dates his philosophical awakening from the appearance of the Treatise of Human Nature. “I acknowledge,” he says in the dedication of the Enquiry, “ that I never thought of calling in question the principles commonly received with regard to the human understanding until the Treatise of Human Nature was published in the year 1739. The ingenious author of that treatise upon the principles of Locke—who was no sceptic—hath built a system of scepticism which leaves no ground to believe any one thing rather than its contrary. His reasoning appeared to me to be just; there was, therefore, a necessity to call in question the principles upon which it was founded, or to admit the conclusion.” Reid thus takes Hume’s scepticism as, on its own showing, a reductio ad impossibile of accepted philosophical principles, and refuses, accordingly, to separate Hume from his intellectual progenitors. From its origin in Descartes and onwards through Locke and Berkeley, modern philosophy carried with it, Reid contends, the germ of scepticism. That scepticism, “ inlaid in it and reared along with it,” Hume did but bring to light. Embracing the whole philosophic movement under the name of “ the Cartesian system,” Reid detects its -n-pwrov i/reDSos in the unproved assumption shared by these thinkers “that all the objects of my knowledge are ideas in my own mind.” This doctrine or hypothesis he usually speaks of as “ the ideal system ” or “the theory of ideas”; and to it he opposes his own analysis of the act of perception. In view of the results of this analysis, Reid’s theory (and the theory of Scottish philosophy generally) has been dubbed natural realism or natural dualism in contrast to theories like subjective idealism and materialism or to the cosmothetic idealism or hypothetical dualism of the majority of philosophers. But this is unduly to narrow the scope of Scottish philosophy, which does not exhaust itself, as it is sometimes supposed to do, in uncritically reasserting the independent existence of matter and its immediate presence to mind. The real significance of Reid’s doctrine lies in its attack upon the principles which Hume explicitly lays down as the alpha and the omega of his system, viz., the principles that all our perceptions are distinct existences, and that the mind never perceives any real connexion among distinct existences (cf. Appendix to the third volume of the Treatise, 1740). It is here that the danger of “ the ideal system ” really lies — in its reduction of reality to “ particular perceptions,” momentary or “perishing” existences essentially unconnected with each other. If the ultimate elements of experience are unrelated units or sense-atoms, called impressions, then it only remains to be shown, as Hume attempts to show, how the illusion of supposed necessary connexion arises. But Reid meets this scepticism by combating the principle on which it is based. In logical language, he denies the actuality of the abstract particular: unrelated impressions and ideas nowhere exist. The unit of knowledge is not an isolated impression but a judgment; and in such a judgment is contained, even initially, the reference both to a permanent subject and to a permanent world of thought, and, implied in these, such judgments, for example, as those of existence, substance, cause and effect. Such principles are not derived from sensation, bujb are “ suggested ” on occasion of sensation, in such a way as to constitute the necessary conditions of our having perceptive experience at all. Thus we do not start with “ ideas, ” and afterwards refer them to objects; we are never restricted to our own minds, but are from the first immediately related to a permanent world. Reid has a variety of names for the principles which, by their presence, lift us out of subjec
tivity into perception. He calls them “ natural judgments,” “natural suggestions,” “judgments of nature,” “judgments immediately inspired by our constitution,” “principles of our nature,” “first principles,” “principles of common sense.” The last designation, which became the current one, was undoubtedly unfortunate, and has conveyed to many a false impression of Scottish philosophy. It has been understood as if Reid had merely appealed from the reasoned conclusions of philosophers to the unreasoned beliefs of common life. The tirades of men like Beattie and Oswald, and many unguarded utterances of Reid himself, lent countenance to this notion. But Reid’s actions are better than his words; his real mode of procedure is to redargue Hume’s conclusions by a refutation of the premises inherited by him from his predecessors. For the rest, as regards the question of nomenclature, Reid everywhere unites common sense and reason, making the former “only another name for one branch or degree of reason.” Reason, as judging of things self-evident, is called common-sense to distinguish it from ratiocination or reasoning. And in regard to Reid’s favourite proof of the principles in question by reference to “ the consent of ages and nations, of the learned and unlearned,” it is only fair to observe that this argument assumes a much more scientific form in the Essays, where it is almost identified with an appeal to “the structure and grammar of all languages.” “The structure of all languages,” he says, “is grounded upon common sense.” To take but one example, “ the distinction between sensible qualities and the substance to which they belong, and between thought and the mind that thinks, is not the invention of philosophers; it is found in the structure of all languages, and therefore must be common to all men who speak with understanding” (Hamilton’s Reid, pp. 229 and 454).
The principles which Reid insists upon as everywhere present in experience evidently correspond pretty closely to the Kantian categories and the unity of apperception. Similarly, Reid’s assertion of the essential distinction between space or extension and feeling or any succession of feelings may be compared with Kant’s doctrine in the ¿Esthetic. “Space,” he says, “whether tangible or visible, is not so properly an object [Kant’s “matter”] as a necessary concomitant of the objects both of sight and touch.” Like Kant, too, Reid finds in space the source of a necessity which sense, as sense, cannot give (Hamilton’s Reid, 323). In the substance of their answer to Hume, the two philosophers have therefore much in common. But Reid lacked the art to give due impressiveness to the important advance which his positions really contain. Although at times he states his principles with a wonderful degree of breadth and insight, he mars the total effect by frequent looseness of statement, and by the amount of irrelevant psychological matter with which they are overlaid. And, if Kant was overridden by - a love of formal completeness and symmetry, Reid’s extreme indifference to form and system is an even more dangerous defect in a philosopher. It has also to be admitted that the principles frequently appear in Reid more as matter of assertion than as demonstrated necessities for the constitution of experience. The transcendental deduction, or proof from the possibility of experience in general, which forms the vital centre of the Kantian scheme, is wanting in Reid; or, at all events, if the spirit of the proof is occasionally present, it is nowhere adequately stated and emphasized. But, when these defects are acknowledged, Reid’s insistence on judgment as the unit of knowledge and his sharp distinction between sensation and perception must still be recognized as philosophical results of the highest importance. They embody the only possible answer to
Hume’s sceptical dissolution of knowledge. Reid’s theory of sensation, indeed, deserves more attention than has been generally bestowed upon it. According to this theory, sensations are not the objects of our perception, not even, as Kant maintained, the “ matter ” of our perceptions on which the “ form ” is superinduced; they are merely the “signs” which introduce us to the knowledge of real objects. The latter “are presented to the mind” by means of, or on occasion of, certain corresponding sensations; but the sensation and the perception “appear upon accurate reflexion not only to be different things, but as unlike as pain is to the point of a sword” (Hamilton’s Reid, 122). Sensation, it might be expressed, is the condition of perception, but there is no sort of community between the two. They are distinct in kind, and therefore the possibility of deriving the one from the other— of melting down the real world into subjective sensations —is once for all shut out. Reid’s position here enables him to escape also from the phenomenalism of the Kantian theory. Inasmuch as the permanent objects presented to us in perception are not in any sense a manipulation of subjective sensations, there is not even an apparent warrant for branding them as “ merely ” phenomenal. They are real in the full sense of the word; we know the world as it really exists.
The relativism or phenomenalism which Hamilton afterwards adopted from Kant and sought to engraft upon Scottish philosophy is thus wholly absent from the original Scottish doctrine. One or two passages may certainly be quoted from Reid in which he asserts that we know only properties of things and are ignorant of their essence. But the exact meaning which he attaches to such expressions is not quite clear; and they occur, moreover, only incidentally and with the air of current phrases mechanically repeated. In Dugald Stewart, however, the merely qualitative nature of our knowledge is consciously emphasized, and made the foundation of philosophical arguments; so that Stewart in this respect paves the way for the more thoroughgoing philosophy of nescience elaborated by Hamilton. But since Hamilton’s time the most typical Scottish thinkers have repudiated his relativistic doctrine, and returned to the original tradition of the school.
Authorities.—For the life, the Memoir by Dugald Stewart, prefixed to Hamilton’s edition of Reid’s works, may be consulted, along with the account given by Dr M'Cosh in his Scottish Philosophy (1875). The complete edition of the works by Sir William Hamilton, published in two volumes with notes and supplementary dissertations by the editor (6th ed. 1863), has superseded all others.    (A. SE.)
REID, Sir William (1797-1858), administrator and man of science, was born in 1797 at the manse of Kin-glassie, Fifeshire, Scotland, and entered the army in 1809 as a lieutenant of royal engineers. He saw active service in the Peninsula under Wellington, and afterwards took part in the bombardment of Algiers in 1816. It was while governor of Bermuda that in 1838 he published the work by which he is now known, The Law of Storms, which obtained a wide popularity and did good service in furthering the progress of this department of meteorology. In 1851 he was chairman of the executive committee of the Great Exhibition; on the completion of the work he was made a K.C.B. and appointed governor of Malta. He died in October 1858, shortly after his return to England.
REIGATE, a market town and municipal borough of Surrey, is situated at the head of the long valley of Holms-dale Hollow, on three railway lines, 23 miles south of London. It consists principally of one long street, with surrounding houses and villas inhabited chiefly by persons having their occupations in London. Of the old castle, supposed to have been built before the Conquest, to com
mand the pass through the valley, there only remains the entrance to a cave beneath, 150 feet long and from 10 to 12 feet high, excavated in the sand, which the barons used as a guardroom. The grounds have been laid out as a public garden. Near the market house is the site of an ancient chapel dedicated to Thomas h Becket. In the chancel of the parish church of St Mary, a building ranging from Transition Norman to Perpendicular, which dates from the beginning of the reign of Henry VII., were buried Archbishop Ussher and Lord Howard, the commander of the English navy against the Spanish Armada. Above the vestry there is a library containing some choice manuscripts and rare books. The grammar school was founded in 1675. Among the other public buildings are the town-hall, the public hall, the market-hall, and the working men’s institute. The town has some agricultural trade, and in the neighbourhood are quarries for freestone, hearthstone, and white sand. The area of the municipal borough is 6015 acres, with a population in 1871 of 15,916, and in 1881 of 18,662.
In Domesday the town was called “ Cliurchfelle,” or “ the church in the field, ” and afterwards it was called Churchfield in Reigate, the earlier reading of the latter name being “Ridgegate.” The castle was taken by Louis the Dauphin in the reign of John. In the time of the Confessor the manor belonged to his queen Edith. A market was granted by Edward III. The town returned two members to parliament from the reign of Edward I. to the reign of William IV., and one from 1832 to 1867, when it was disfranchised for corrupt practices.
REIMARUS, Hermann Samuel (1694-1768), known to history chiefly as the author of the Wolfenbiittel Fragments, was born at Hamburg, December 22, 1694. His father, the son of a clergyman and married into a patrician family of that city, was one of the masters in the Johanneum college, a good scholar and excellent teacher. Until his twelfth year the son received his education almost entirely from his father. He passed from his father’s tuition into the class of the famous scholar Johann Albrecht Fabricius, whose son-in-law he subsequently became. In his twentieth year he entered the university of Jena, where he studied theology, ancient languages, and philosophy. After making a tour in Holland and England (1720), he became privat-docent in the university of Wittenberg; and in 1723 he accepted the post of rector of the high, school at Wismar in Mecklenburg, which he exchanged four years afterwards for that of professor of Hebrew and Oriental languages in the high school of his native city. This post he held till his death, though offers of more lucrative and distinguished positions were at various times made to him. His professional duties were but light, and he employed his ample leisure in the study of philology, mathematics, philosophy, history, political economy, natural science, and natural history, for which he made expensive collections. Philosophy and theology, however, became with his advancing years the chief subjects of pursuit. From 1744 to 1768 lie had in hand the theological work from which Lessing published the notorious Fragments in 1774-78. Reimarus was held by his contemporaries in the highest esteem as a scholar, a thinker, an author, and a man. His house was the centre of the highest culture of Hamburg, and a monument of his influence in that city still remains in the linns der patriotischen Gesellschaft, where the learned and artistic societies partly founded by him still meet. His wife bore him seven children, three only of whom lived to grow up, namely his only surviving son׳—the distinguished physician Johann Albrecht Heinrich—and two daughters, one of them being Elise, Lessing’s friend and correspondent. Ten days before his death he invited a select number of friends to dine with him, and, with his wonted cheerfulness and amiability, declared to them solemnly that this was h!3
farewell meal with them. Three days after he was taken seriously ill, and died March 1, 1768.
Reimarus’s reputation as a classical and historical scholar rests on the valuable edition of Dio Cassius (1750-52) which he prepared from the. materials collected by his father-in-law, J. A. Fabricius. In the department of philosophy he published a work on logic ( Vernunftlehre als Anweisung zum richtigen Gebrauche der Vernunft, 1756, fifth edition 1790), and two very popular books bearing on the great religious questions of the day. The first of these works was a collection of essays on the principal truths of natural religion (Abhandlungen von den vornehmsten Wahrheiten der natürlichen Religion, 1754, 6th ed. 1791) ־ the second (Betrachtungen über die Kunsttriebe der Thiere, 1762, 4th ed. 1798) dealt with one particular branch of the same subject. In these works he appears as a powerful opponent of French materialism and Spinoza’s pantheism, a zealous teleologist and able wielder of the ai’gument from design. His philosophical position is essentially that of Christian Wolff. But it is the work (carefully kept back during his lifetime, strangely enough) from which Lessing published certain chapters after the author’s death with which his name is most widely associated. Lessing’s relation to this work has been stated in the article Lessing. Its title in the MS. is Apologie oder Schutzschrift für die vernünftigen Verehrer Gottes. The original MS. is in the Hamburg town library ; a copy was made for the university library of Göttingen, 1814, and other copies are known to exist. In addition to the seven fragments published by Lessing, a second portion of the work was issued in 1787 by C. A. E. Schmidt (a pseudonym), under the title TJebrige noch ungedruckte Werke des Wolfenbüttelschen Fragmentisten, and a further portion by D. W. Klose in JViedner’s Zeitschrift für historische Theologie, 1850-52. Two of the five books of the first part and the whole of the second part, as well as appendices on the canon, remain still, and will probably always remain, unprinted. But D. F. Strauss has given an exhaustive analysis of the whole work in his book on Reimarus.
The standpoint of Reimarus in his Apologie is that of pure naturalistic deism. Miracles and mysteries are denied, and natural religion is put forward as the absolute contradiction of revealed. The essential truths of the former are the existence of a wise and good Creator and the doctrine of the immortality of the soul. These truths are discoverable by reason, and are such as can constitute the basis of a univei'sal and rational religion. A revealed religion could never obtain universality, as it could never be made intelligible and credible to all men. Even supposing its possibility, the Bible does not present such a revelation. It abounds in error as to matters of fact, contradicts human experience, reason, and morals, and is one tissue of folly, deceit, enthusiasm, selfishness, and crime. Moreover, it is not a doctrinal compendium, or catechism, which a revelation would have to be. What the Old Testament says of the worship of God is little, and that little worthless, while its writers are unacquainted with the second fundamental truth of religion, the immortality of the soul. The design of the writers of the New Testament, as well as that of Jesus, was not to teach true rational religion, but to serve their own selfish ambitions, in promoting which Reimarus makes them exhibit an inconceivable combination of conscious fraud and enthusiasm. With all his acuteness as a rationalistic critic, and the destructive force of his attack upon the old orthodox conception of the nature of the Bible and revelation, Reimarus must be regarded simply as the classical representative of rationalism in its absolute inability to form any remotely just conception of God, religion, revelation, the Bible, and Christianity. His Apologie is the historical monument to the incapacity of rationalism with regard to philosophy, religion, and true historical and literary criticism. By the higher and profounder ideas and historical insight of Lessing, Herder, Semler, Kant, and Schleiermacher, his entire position was rendered antiquated, and the permanently valid portions of his criticism of the Bible are of value only as destructive of a theory, now outlived, of it and religion. But as a learned, acute, and logical assailant of that theory he must be honoured with a place amongst the pioneers of truer views of both.
See the “Fragments” as published by Lessing, reprinted in vol. xv. of Les- I sing's Werke, Hempel’s edition ; D. F. Strauss, Hermann Samuel Reimarus und seine Schutzschrift für die vernünftigen Verehrer Gottes, 1861, 2d. ed. 1877; Rev. I
Charles Voyscy, Fragments from Reimarus, London, 1870 (a translation of the life of Reimarus by Strauss, with the second part of the seventh fragment, on the “Object of Jesus and his Disciples”); the Lives of Lessing by Danzel and G. E. Guhrauer, Siine, and Zimmern ; Kuno Fischer, Geschichte der neuem Philosophie, vol. ii. pp. 759-772, 2d ed. 1867; Zeller, Geschichte der deutschen Philosophie, 2d ed. 1875, pp. 243-6.
REIMS. See Rheims.
REINAUD, Joseph Toussaint (1795-1867), a distinguished French Orientalist, was born in 1795 at Lambesc, Bouches du Rhône, and began to study for the church, but, being drawn towards Eastern learning, he came to Paris in 1815 and became a pupil of Silvestre de Sacy. In 1818 and the following year he was at Rome as an attache to the French minister, and studied under the Maronites of the Propaganda, but gave special attention to Mohammedan coins. In 1824 he entered the department of Oriental MSS. in the Royal Library at Paris, and in 1838, on the death of De Sacy, he succeeded to his chair in the school of living Oriental languages. In 1847 he became president of the Société Asiatique, and in 1858 conservator of Oriental MSS. in the Imperial Library. In all these functions Reinaud maintained the great reputation of the French Oriental school, ·and he also did good service with his pen. His first important work was his classical description of the collections of the Duc de Blacas (1828). To history he contributed an essay on the Arab invasions of France, Savoy, Piedmont, and Switzerland (1836), and various collections for the period of the crusades ; he edited (1840) andin part translated (1848) the geography of Abulfeda; to him too is due a useful edition of the very curious records of early Arabic intercourse with China of which Renaudot had given but an imperfect translation (Relation des Voyages, &c., 1845) and various other essays illustrating the ancient and mediaeval geography of the East. His chief quality was indefatigable industry.
REINDEER. See Deer.
REINEKE VOS. See German Literature, vol. x. pp. 522, 527, and Romance.
REINHOLD, Karl Leonhard (1758-1823), who played a considerable part in the early spread and development of the Kantian philosophy, was born at Vienna in 1758. At the age of fourteen he entered the Jesuit College of St Anna with the intention of becoming a priest of the order. The order was dissolved by the pope in the following year ; but young Reinhold, being full of Catholic and monastic zeal, joined a similar college of the order of St Barnabas in 1774. There he remained nine years, before the end of which his scientific and philosophic studies had completely estranged him from the life and aims of the cloister. In 1783 he fled to North Germany, and settled in Weimar, where he became Wieland’s collaborateur on the German Mercury, and eventually his son-in-law. In the German Mercury he published, in the years 1786-87, his Briefe über die Kantische Philosophie, which, by their clear and eloquent exposition were most important in making Kant known to a wider circle of readers. Reinhold himself had read the Critique five times without a single ray of light ; in the end it was the ethical side of the system by which he found himself attracted and convinced. As a result of the Letters, Reinhold at once received a call to the neighbouring university of Jena, where he taught from 1787 to 1794, and largely contributed to make Jena, after Königsberg, the second home of the Kantian philosophy. In 1789 he published his chief work, the Versuch einer neuen Theorie des menschlichen Vorstellungsvermögens, in which he attempted to simplify the Kantian theory and make it more of a unity. In 1794 he accepted a call to Kiel, but his departure from Jena marks the zenith of his reputation. He taught at Kiel till his death in 1823, but his independent activity was at an end. His essentially receptive and impressible nature yielded first to the
powerful impulse of Fichte, and then gravitated, on grounds of religious feeling, towards Jacobi, whom he in turn deserted for the so-called “ rational idealism ” of Bardili.
Reinlioldls historical importance belongs entirely to his earlier activity. The development of the Kantian standpoint contained in the Xew Theory of the Human Faculty of Ideas (1789), and in the Fundament ties philosophischcn Wissens (1791), was called by its author “Elcrnentarphilosophie.” Endeavouring to buildup the system out of simpler elements, Reinhold starts from the mere fact of consciousness of the existence of mental states (“Yorstel-lungeu ” or ideas). Every idea carries with it the reference to a subject, whose idea it is, and to an object, of which it is the idea. This double reference explains why every idea consists, as Kant maintained, of “form” and “matter.” In its “form ”lies the reference to the subject, iu its “matter” the reference to an object. Hence, too, we see why the thing-in-itself, though necessarily existent, is at the same time necessarily unknowable, seeing that all knowledge implies a subject-derived element. The rest of Reinhold’s emendations to Kant are little more than suggested improvements in terminology.
REISIvE, Johaxx Jacob (1716-1774), scholar and physician, was born 25th December 1716, in the little town of Zorbig in Electoral Saxony. From the Waisen-haus at Halle he passed in 1733 to the university of Leipsic, and there spent five years. He lived alone without teacher or friend, heard no lectures, but studied continually without order or aim. He tried to find his own way in Greek literature, to which German schools then gave little attention; but, as he had not mastered the grammar, he soon found this a sore task and took up Arabic. He was very poor, having almost nothing beyond his allowance, which for the five years was only two hundred thalers. But everything of which he could cheat his appetite was spent on Arabic books, and when he had read all that was then printed he thirsted for manuscripts, and in March 1738 started on foot for Hamburg, joyous though totally unprovided, on his way to Leyden and the treasures of the Warnerianum. At Hamburg he got some money and letters of recommendation from the Hebraist Wolf, and took ship to Amsterdam. Here D’Orville, to whom he had an introduction, proposed to retain him as his amanuensis at a salary of six hundred guilders. Reiske refused, though he thought the offer very generous; he did not want money, he wanted manuscripts. But when he reached Leyden (6th June 1738) he found that the lectures were over for the term and that the MSS. were not open to him. His money too was gone, and he passed a miserable summer. By and by things mended : D’Orville and A. Schultens helped him to private teaching and reading for the press, by which he was able to live, and his great power of work enabled him still to find time enough for his own studies. He heard the lectures of A. Schultens, and practised himself in Arabic with his son J. J. Schultens. Through Schultens too he got at Arabic MSS., and was even allowed sub rosa to take them home with him. Ultimately he seems to have got free access to the collection, which he recatalogued—the work of almost a whole summer, for which the curators rewarded him with nine guilders.
In spite of his hardships Reiske’s first years in Leyden were not unhappy, till he got into serious trouble by introducing divers emendations of his own into the second edition of Burmann’s Petronius, which he had to see through the press. His patrons withdrew from him, and his chance of perhaps becoming professor was gone. D’Orville indeed soon came round, for he could not do without Reiske, who did work of which his patron, after dressing it up in his own style, took the credit. But A. Schultens was never the same as before to him; Reiske indeed was too independent, and hurt him by his open criticisms of his master’s way of making Arabic mainly a handmaid of Hebrew. Reiske, however, himself admits that
Schultens, though he had reason to complain of his scholar’s want of respect towards him, always behaved honourably to him. In 1742 by Schultens’s ■advice Reiske took up medicine as a study by which he might hope to live if he could not do so by philology, and at medicine he worked hard for four years, still continuing the tasks that brought him bread as well as his Greek and Arabic studies. In 1746 he graduated as M.D., the fees being remitted at Schultens’s intercession. It was Schultens too who conquered the difficulties opposed to his graduation at the last moment by the faculty of theology on the ground that some of his theses had a materialistic ring. On June 10, 1746, he left Holland and settled in Leipsic, where he hoped to get medical practice.
But his shy proud nature was not fitted to gain patients, and the Leipsic doctors would not recommend one who was not a Leipsic graduate. In 1747 an Arabic dedication to the electoral prince of Saxony got him the title of professor, but did not better his circumstances. Neither the faculty of arts nor that of medicine was willing to admit him among them, and he never delivered a course of lectures. He had still to go on doing literary task-work, but his labour was much worse paid in Leipsic than in Leyden. Still he could have lived and sent his old mother, as his custom was, a yearly present of a piece of leather to be sold in retail if he had been a better manager. But, careless for the morrow, he was always printing at his own cost great books which found no buyers. And so for many years he lived in such misery that he often clid not know where to find bread to still his hunger. His academical colleagues were hostile; and Ernesti, under a show of friendship, secretly hindered his promotion. His slashing and unsparing reviews made bad blood with the pillars of the university.
At length in 1758 the magistrates, of Leipsic rescued him from his misery by giving him the rectorate of St Nicolai, and, though he still made no way with the leading men of the university and suffered from the hostility of men like Ruhnken and J. D. Michaelis, he was compensated for this by the esteem of Frederick the Great, of Lessing, Karsten Niebuhr, and many foreign scholars. The last decade of his life was made cheerful by his marriage with Ernestine Müller, who shared all his interests and learned Greek to help him with collations. In proof of his gratitude her portrait stands beside his in the first volume of the Oratores Grseci. Reiske died August 14, 1774, and his MS. remains passed, through Lessing’s mediation, to the Danish minister Suhm, and are now in the Copenhagen library.
Reiske certainly surpassed all his predecessors in the range and quality of his knowledge of Arabic literature. It was the history, the realia of the literature, that always interested him ; he did not care for Arabic poetry as such, and the then much praised Hariri seemed to him a grammatical pedant. He read the poets for their bearing on history, and cared less for their verses than for such scholia as supplied historical notices. Thus for example the scholia on Jarir furnished him with a remarkable notice of the prevalence of Buddhist doctrine and asceticism in 'Irak under the Omayyads. In the Adnotationcs Historicx to his Abulfeda (Abulf'. Annalcs Moslcmici, 5 vols., Copenhagen, 1789-91) he collected a veritable treasure of sound and original research ; he knew the Byzantine writers as thoroughly as the Arabic authors, and was alike at home in modern works of travel in all languages and in ancient and medieval authorities. He was interested too in numismatics, and his letters on Arabic coinage (in Eichhorn’s Repertorium, vols. ix.-xi.) form, according to De Sacy, the basis of that branch of study. To comprehensive knowledge and very wide reading he added a sound historical judgment. He was not, like Schultens, deceived by the pretended antiquity of the Yemenite Kasidas.@@1 Errors no doubt he made, as in the attempt to ascertain the date of the breach of the dam of Marib.
Though Abulfeda as a late epitomator did not afford a starting·
@@@1 “Animadvers. criticee in Hamzaj hist, regni Joctanidarum,” in Eichhorn’s Mon. Ant. Hist. Ar., 1775.
point for methodical study of the sources, Reiske’s edition with his version and notes certainly laid the foundation for research in Arabic history. The foundation of Arabic philology, however, was laid not by him but by De Sacy. Reiske’s linguistic knowledge was great, but he used it only to understand his authors ; he had no feeling for form, for language as language, or for metre. He was diligent in lexicographic col lections, but cared nothing for etymology or for any speculations that transcended the historical data before him. This narrowness of interest was the counterpart of bis hatred for pedantry and strong love of reality. His greed for historical facts made his studies a sort of vast foray in Arabic literature, but with this he is not to be reproached.
In Leipsic Reiske worked mainly at Greek, though he continued to draw on his Arabic stores accumulated in Leyden. Yet his merit as an Arabist was sooner recognized than the value of his Greek work, partly perhaps because his talents were really at their best in dealing with a literature which suffers little injustice through lack of interest in its form, but mainly because his contemporaries in Greek learning were narrow and had not the judgment to appreciate him. Reiske the Greek scholar has been rightly valued only in recent years, and it is now recognized that he was the first German since Sylburg who had a living knowledge of the Greek tongue. His reputation does not rest on his numerous editions, often hasty or even made to booksellers’ orders. The text was never his main concern, and he often let received readings stand against his own judgment. The valuable matter lies in his remarks, especially his conjectures. He himself designates the Anvmadversationes in Scriptores Greecos as flos ingenii sui, and in truth these thin booklets outweigh his big editions. Closely following the author’s thought he removes obstacles whenever he meets them, but he is so steeped in the language and thinks so truly like a Greek that the difficulties he feels often seem to us to lie in mere points of style. His criticism is empirical and unmethodic, based on immense and careful reading, and applied only when he feels a difficulty ; and he is most successful when he has a large mass of tolerably homogeneous literature to lean on, whilst on isolated points he is often at a loss. Phonetics, dialects, orthography were indifferent to him; metre he did not understand. His corrections are often hasty and false, but a surprisingly large proportion of them have since received confirmation from MSS. And, though his merits as a Grecian lie mainly in his conjectures, his realism is felt in this sphere also ; his German translations especially show more freedom and practical insight, more feeling for actual life, than is common with the scholars of that age.@@1
Reiske ■was essentially a pioneer, who neither left any complete performance behind him nor marked out for others a sharply defined method of research. This was partly due to his unhappy circumstances, but mainly to his passionate interest in all history and all letters, which never allowed him to linger in any one field. The son of the Zorbig tanner, driven by a natural instinct to Arabic lore, devoured by eager desire to view the unknown treasures of distant ages and lands, is an attractive figure amidst the pedants of learned Germany as it then was. Reiske was not amiable, but he was a real character—a character, too, sustained by genuine piety when the deep waters threatened to close over his head.
For a list of Reiske’s writings see Meusel, xi. 192 sq. His chief Arabic works (all posthumous) have been mentioned above. In Greek letters his chief works are Comtantini Porphyrogeniti libri II. de ceremoniis aulas Byzant., vols. i. ii., Leipsic, 1751-G6, vol. iii., Bonn, 1829; Animadv. ad Groscos auctores.5 vols., Leipsic, 1751-66 (the rest lies imprinted at Copenhagen); Oratorum Grxc. quie supersunt, 8 vols., Leipsic, 1770-73; App. crit. ad Demosthcnem, 3 vols., ib., 1774-75; Maximus Tyr., ib., 1774 ; Plutarchus, 11 vols., ib.. 1774-79; Dionys Italic., 6 vols., ib., 1774-77; Libanius, 4 vols., Alrenburg, 1784-97. Various reviews in the Acta Eruditorum and Zuverl. Ifachrichten are characteristic and worth reading. Compare D. Johann Jacob Reiskens von ihm selbst aufgesetzte Lebensbeschreibung, Leipsic, 1783.    (J. WE.)
RELAND, Adrian, a meritorious Dutch Orientalist, was born at Ryp, July 17, 1676, studied at Utrecht and Leyden and successively professed Oriental languages with great success at Harderwijk (1699) and Utrecht (1701). In the latter chair, from which he also lectured on sacred antiquities, he remained till he died of small-pox February 5, 1718.
Reland’s most important work is Palestina ex vcteribus monu-mcntis illustrata, Utrecht, 1714, an admirable collection which is still the most valuable book on the historical geography of the Holy Land. His Antiquilates sacras veterum Ilebraeorurn, learned, clear, and compact, is also a most useful book; and his other writings and collections—for he reprinted many curious and useful tracts of other scholars on Biblical and Rabbinical topics—all show judgment as well as knowledge. His works are enumerated by Burmau, Traj. Erud., p. 296 sq.
RELICS. Relics, in what may be called their merely human and historic aspect, appeal to many of the most
obvious and most deeply seated principles of human nature —to that power of connexion with the past which has been justly called one of the divinest elements of our being, to the law of association, and to that love of something like ocular testimony which so notoriously affects the mind more forcibly than “the hearing of the ear.” The Russian general Suwaroff, “albeit unused to the melting mood,” is reported to Lave been deeply touched by the relics of departed greatness laid bare by the discovery of a palace in the Crimea which had been built by Mithradates. Many of those who were present at the opening of the tomb of Robert the Bruce at Dunfermline were quite unmanned at the sight of the skull that had toiled for Scot- . land’s weal, and the arm that had struck down Sir Henry de Bohun on the eve of the battle of Bannockburn; and at the funeral of the duke of Wellington, in 1852, the pathetic part of the processional ceremonial was found to lie in the riderless charger, bearing relics of the deceased warrior. In 1802 Napoleon Bonaparte, while making his preparations at Boulogne for the invasion of England, professed to have found a coin of Julius Caesar and a weapon which had belonged to one of the soldiers of William the Conqueror. Napoleon had a profound belief in the power of the imagination. It is needless to dwell upon his object in ostentatiously announcing these discoveries.
It is obvious, however, that, apart from designs such as that of Napoleon, pretended relics, sometimes associated with real sometimes with legendary events, would be sure to spring from human credulity, from love of the marvellous, and from hopes of gain. Perhaps all settled Governments exhibit relics, such as regalia and the like, of which many are perfectly authentic, while some would not bear close examination. The same may be said of family treasures. We read of ancient Romans exhibiting curiosities, such as fragments of the ship “Argo.” Again, relics are apt to gather round a great name. The town of Lutterworth possessed an ancient chair and a piece of a cope. Each became, despite of want of evidence, and indeed against evidence, associated with the name of Wickliffe.
It would be strange indeed if religion (which, alike in its good features and in its abuses, penetrates more deeply than anything else into the human heart) were found to be dissociated from relics. Probably all the more widely spread creeds claim some such material links with the past. Let it suffice to mention here the Ka'ba at Mecca, and the tooth of Buddha exhibited in Ceylon.
We turn to the pre-Christian and Christian dispensations. The Old Testament contains allusions to relics too numerous to mention. We may refer to the language of the epistle to the Hebrews, which speaks of the holy of holies as containing the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant, wherein were the golden pot that had manna and Aaron’s rod that budded and the tables of the covenant (Heb. ix. 4, 9; Exod. xxv. 10, 16; Num. xvii. 10). These were believed to have been lost at the destruction of the temple by Nebuchadnezzar. We also read of the sword of Goliath being preserved· as something sacred (1 Sam. xxi. 9).
Certainly, however, in one respect, perhaps in two (though of seemingly opposite tendencies), Judaism stands in this matter distinguished from contemporary religions. Nowhere else should we read of a valued and most interesting relic being destroyed by a devout ruler because it was found to have been abused and to have led to idolatry, as was done to the brazen serpent by Hezekiah (2 Kings xviii. 4). But it may also be questioned whether the records of any other people contain an account of a miracle WTOUght by the relics of a deceased prophet. We may indeed read of a miracle wT rought in heathendom for the defence of
@@@1 For this estimate of Reiske as a Greek scholar the writer is indebted to Prof. U. v. Wilamowitz-Moellendorff.
innocence unjustly accused, and we also find tlie possession of the bones of a departed hero made the condition of a successful war.@@1 But the second book of Kings relates the revival of a dead man by the bones of Elisha,—a narrative rendered the more remarkable by the fact that, as a rule, the contact with a corpse, a bone, or a grave made a man unclean for seven days (Num. xix. 11-22).
The New Testament does not relate any case precisely similar to that of Elisha. The remains of the protomartyr Stephen are simply committed to the tomb, with much lamentation by devout men (Acts viii. 2); and of the funeral of the first martyred apostle, James, we have no record. It is not, however, to be denied that the book of Acts tells of miracles of healing resembling that of her who was cured by the touch of our Lord’s garment (Matt. ix. 20-22). Even the shadow of Peter, it is implied, may have healed the sick ; and handkerchiefs or aprons which had been worn by Paul relieved not only the diseased but the possessed (Acts v. 15; xix. 12).
To a great extent the homage paid to the tombs and the remains of patriot, sage, or bard was transferred, at an early period in the history of the Christian church, to those of its own heroes, more especially to those of martyrs. Such a result was natural, and almost inevitable. The intercession of the departed on behalf of the living was everywhere recognized, and that of martyrs naturally believed to be especially powerful. But it was further inferred from the instance of Elisha and from the passages of the book of Acts already cited that it might please the Almighty to repeat similar manifestations of miraculous power. Whether the fathers who maintain this view wr ould have written so freely if they could have foreseen the abuses which were to arise may perhaps be doubted.@@2  But three or four features in the history of early Christendom conspired to spread the cultus of relics. These were the heathen persecutions, the rise of Gnosticism, the strong and exaggerated feeling about possession and witchcraft, —to which may probably be added the sense of a sort of education connected with visible and tangible links of connexion with the past.
The way in which these elements of the case would operate is tolerably obvious. If, as at Lyons and Vienne, pagan persecutors burnt the ashes of the martyrs, and threw them into the Ehone, exulting in the idea that they were disproving one of the most important articles of the Christian creed, the resurrection of the body, with still more fervid zeal would the faithful seize every opportunity of honouring those remains which their opponents sought to vilify. Then, again, the other great foe of early Christendom, the heresy of Gnosticism (often denounced as a more subtle and dangerous evil than the open hostility of heathendom), amidst all its varied forms was consistent in representing matter as something essentially evil. The counter teaching, implied in the central doctrine of the
@@@1    We allude to the miracle claimed by two poets, Ovid (Fast., iv. 310) and Propertius (Eleg., iv. 14, 51), as also by Livy, Cicero, and Pliny, to have been wrought by Cybele on behalf of the Vestal Claudia, and to the oracular injunction from Delphi to the Spartans to find and carry with them the bones of Orestes as a condition of success against the men of Tegea (Herodotus, i. 67-68).
@@@2    A set of passages is given by Petavius (De Dogmatibus Theologicis, “ De Incarnatione,” xiv. 11). It certainly includes most of the leading post-Nicene patristic names,—such as Eusebius and many fathers commonly honoured with the prefix of saint, as Gregory of Nazianzus, Gregory of Nyssa, Chrysostom, both the Cyrils, Ambrose, Jerome, and others. Of these St Jerome is the most extreme and vehement; but this is accounted for, not only by the author’s temperament, but by the fact of his writing against an opponent whom he specially disliked on personal as well as theological grounds (Contra Vigilanlium liber unus). Later writers on the same side with Vigilantius are Claudius of Turin and Agobard of Lyons, but our limits forbid us to discuss their views. Some sectaries (e.g., the Novatianists) appear to have been as anxious as their opponents to collect relics.
Christian faith, the mystery of the incarnation, and in the sacraments, might seem to gain some aid from the veneration shown to what was regarded as another form of hallowed matter, the bodies of the saints or the material instruments of Christ’s passion. And, thirdly, the dread of possession found some alleviation in the check to satanic malice which relics were believed to effect.
It is also conceivable that the interest created by such memorials might have its share in that education of the earlier Middle Ages which was so powerfully assisted by pilgrimages and by biographies. Guizot, in a well-known chapter of his Civilisation en France has dwelt largely on the value of even the legends of this period. He maintains that, in a world full of violence, disorder, and oppression, the legends of the saints found food for some of the most powerful instincts and invincible needs of the human mind—that exaggeration of details, or even failure in material truth, did not prevent them from being a moral relief and a protest on behalf of many of the rights of man. ]Material memorials, or even supposed memorials, would certainly help to impress such stories upon the mind, as is the case with the facts and the legends of secular history. Leibnitz, among the large concessions in his Systema Theo-logicum to the Roman Catholic view of these questions, in some degree anticipates the language of Guizot concerning pious legends.
In any case, alike for good and for evil,—and it will be necessary to speak presently of the sadder aspects of the question,— relics from the 4th to the 16th century occupied a large space in the mind of Christendom. The word relics (reliquiae, Xeiipavo) became almost restricted, in theological language, to the bodies (or parts of the bodies) of saints, or, as has been intimated, to memorials of Christ’s passion, or instruments which had been used in the torture and execution of martyrs. Inquiries connected with their genuineness are, as is well known to students of ecclesiastical history, conspicuous in the life of the mother of Constantine, St Helena, who claimed to have discovered the true cross on which our Lord suffered, and in the career of St Ambrose at Milan. Once at least a really glorious series of campaigns, those of the emperor Heraclius against the barbarian Avars and the Persians (622-628), is connected with a successful endeavour to regain the cross (see Persia, vol. xviii. pp. 614-615). It is remarkable that the Persians are reported to have kept the cross in its case with the seals unbroken.
Thus far relics have been regarded as evidencing two marks of a very powerful element of life, namely, the capacity of evoking enthusiasm and of influencing even bystanders or opponents. But it is time to turn to the more painful features of their history in connexion with Christian thought and practice. It must not be supposed that the recognition of such phases is by any means a purely Protestant sentiment, although ־it is no doubt a prominent feature in the Reformation of the 16th century. Thus, for example, one of the most credulous biographies of a saint of the 4tli century, that of St Martin by Sulpicius Severus, mentions (chap, viii.) an instance where the supernatural insight of Martin was exerted in the way of repression of such homage. The country people were exhibiting veneration at the tomb of a supposed saint, but it w־as revealed to the bishop of Tours that it was that of a robber executed for his crimes. St Augustine, in his severe and satiric tractate against certain unworthy monks who made their profession a mere cloak for idleness, clearly insinuates the sale of questionable relics as one of their faults. “ Alii membra martyrum, si tamen martyrum, venditant.” The traffic in relics became part of the recognized commerce of Christendom and was countenanced by sovereigns of undoubted excellence. Thus Athelstan was
a great donor of relics to the monastery at Exeter. A list occupying more than three columns is given in the Leofric missal. It includes fragments of the candle which the angel of the Lord lit in the tomb of Christ, of the burning bush whence Jehovah spoke to Moses, and of . one of the stones which slew the protomartyr Stephen. Edward the Confessor and Louis IX. of France may be named among the saintly patrons of a commerce which they at least considered meritorious.
The mention of this last name involves a reference to an event which, above all others of the Middle Ages, spread, fostered, and ultimately injured the veneration of relics. The crusades created a profound excitement in this matter. Pilgrims had already thought it a default to return from Palestine without some such evidence that they had actually visited the Holy Land. Relics, at first probably bought and sold in good faith, became multiplied ; and rival possessions of most sacred memorials (as, for instance, the crown of thorns, exhibited both by the abbey of St Denys and by St Louis) were by no means uncommon. Even the crime of theft seems to have been condoned when a relic was in question, and mutilation of a saint’s body to have been hardly thought irreverent. To swear by these relics became the most binding of oaths, as will be remembered by those who have read the life of King Robert II. of France, and the ruse practised on Harold by William, duke of Normandy. Marauding campaigns between monastery and monastery were by no means uncommon; but these sink into insignificance compared with the spoliation exercised by the crusaders from the West who captured and sacked Constantinople in 1203-4. The shameful behaviour of the conquering army is admitted by the Latins themselves; but the condemnation freely uttered against licence, brutality, and profane irreverence seems generally (though not quite universally) hushed when the spoliation concerns treasure in the way of relics. The fact of their abundance shows an agreement on this point, amidst their differences, between the Latin and Greek Churches ; but Constantinople roust have been greatly impoverished by the immense supply of relics “ that were scattered by this revolution over the churches of Europe.”@@1
The next two centuries saw no diminution of such zeal, and there grew up, it can hardly be doubted, an increase of lower motives and of fraud. By the time of the Reformation the condition of matters was such as in many respects to offer a mark for all assailants of the existing state of things, and a practical admission on the part of those in authority that it was to a large extent simply indefensible. Erasmus, on this as on so many other kindred subjects, is found leading the van of satirists. One of his Colloquia, entitled Peregrinatio Religionis Ergo, contains within some thirty pages a mass of sarcasm against the abuses of. the age. The discharge of vows through an agent, the localism of particular favours, the earthly (and sometimes evil) character of the petitions offered to saints and specially to the Virgin Mother, the strange character of the relics, one of the most common and abundant being the “ caeleste lac beatge Virginis,” the enormous amount of wealth lying idle at the shrine of St Thomas k Becket—these and similar topics are treated in this author’s caustic and elegant Latinity. The Colloquia were published in 1522, and from this date a mass of similar literature in the vernacular tongue of various countries, of a coarser kind and more adapted to the popular taste, seems to have been circulated freely throughout Europe.
The reaction against the homage paid to relics was immense. A practice which has not only been extensively abused, but which appears from its very nature to involve a fatal facility of abuse, can never stand quite ■where it did after such an exposure as that to wliich reference has been made. Yet it seems doubtful whether the Reformers in all cases intended to do more than check the prominent abuses connected with relics. Those who claimed Holy Scripture as the sole authority could not deny that it might please the Almighty to convey blessings through the instrumentality of such material things, as in the cases already referred to in the second book of Kings and the Acts of the Apostles. Even Luther seems rather to denounce mistakes concerning particular relics than the respect paid to recognized ones. In like manner the English Church, while using severe and contemptuous language in the Homilies with reference to such practices as those satirized by Erasmus, has preserved in its calendar, among minor festivals, the days respectively chosen by the earlier mediaeval church for the discovery of the cross by St Helena (May 3rd) and its recovery by Heraclius (September 14th). Mosheim and other learned foreign Protestants also speak gently on such themes. Thus the devout Lutheran Neander, while mentioning in his Church History some cases of deliberate fraud, and holding that the superstition concerning saints and relics bordered nearly on paganism, is yet unable to approve of the extreme reaction which in some quarters arose out of it.
As regards the Church of Rome, although in theory the events of the 16th century may have left its teaching untouched, yet it can hardly be questioned but that this is one of the many departments of religious life in which that great commotion, as De Maistre calls it, has in his ■words, even among Roman Catholics, opere une revolution tres sensible. The council of Trent, which must be regarded as, from its own point of view, a reforming council, treated the subject of relics in its twenty-fifth session, held in December 1563. It expressed its earnest desire for the removal of abuses, for the abolition of unworthy gain in the veneration of relics, and of revelry on occasion of their visitation. It forbade the acceptance by any church of new relics, without the approbation of the bishop, given after consultation with theologians and other devout men, and referred grave and difficult questions concerning the extirpation of abuses to the judgment of local councils, of metropolitans, and ultimately to the Roman see itself.
By these steps a great change has been effected. We hear nothing more of the sale of relics (which had indeed been forbidden by the fourth Lateran council in 1215), of theft or of war in connexion with them. Some of those most strange memorials to which a passing allusion has been made above have seemingly disappeared from history. And, although leading writers of the Roman obedience in France and Italy do not often make concessions, the Freiburg Encyclopaedia admits the non-authenticity of numbers of relics brought home from the crusades and from the conquest of Constantinople; and Addis and Arnold (Roman Catholic Dictionary, 1884) say that “abuses no doubt have occurred in all ages with regard to relics.” No shock less great than that caused by the Reformation would probably have effected so much as has been done.
Still, however, the Church of Rome stands alone, wT e believe, in considering the possession of relics an indispensable condition of the performance of the highest acts of public Christian worship. Every altar used for the celebration of mass must, according to Roman Catholic rule, contain some authorized relics. These are inserted into a cavity prepared for their reception, called “the tomb,”
@@@1 Gibbon, Decline and Fall, chap. lx. sub fin. ; comp. Milman, Latin Christianity, bk. ix. chap. vii. Milman quotes from Gunther’s words concerning the abbot Martin, one of the spoilers: “Indignum ducens sacrilegium, nisi in re sacra, committere. ”
by the bishop of the diocese, and sealed up with the episcopal seal. A collect in the Ordo ilfissæ assumes their presence, and makes reference to the saints whose relics are thus preserved.
Authorities.—Many of the leading authorities have already been named. To these may be added on the Roman Catholic side Perrone, Praclectiones Thcologicae, vol. ii. “DeCultu Sanctorum,” cap. iv. (ed. Paris, 1863), and Martigny, Dictionnaire des Antiquités Chrétiennes (s. v. “Reliques”). Un the other side the followers of Calvin (on this as on so many other topics) are usually more fiercely anti-Roman than those of Luther. Among Anglican divines those who have published treatises on the Thirty-nine Articles are necessarily brought across the subject. The work of the bishop of Winchester (Dr Harold Browne) will here be found ; the fullest and most able as well as the most candid and temperate. Compare also Bp. Pearson, Minor ]Forks, vol. il (J. G. C.) RELIEF. See Sculpture.
RELIGIONS. Religions, by which are meant the modes of divine worship proper to different tribes, nations, or communities, and based on the belief held in common by the members of them severally, were not before the present century the subject of original scientific research and comparative study. With the exception of a few good books containing useful information on some ancient religions and on the religious customs of uncivilized nations, nothing written on this subject in former centuries can be said to possess any scientific value. It is not that the old books are antiquated, as all works of learning must become with the lapse of time : they were worth nothing even when published. There were huge collections, containing descriptions of all the religions in the world, so far as they were known, laboriously compiled, but without any critical acumen, and without the least suspicion that unbiblical religions are not mere curiosities. There was a philosophy of religion, but it was all but purely speculative, and it could not be otherwise, as then it had but scanty means to work with, and was obliged to draw the facts it required from very troubled and insufficient sources. Attempts were made to explain the mythologies of the Greeks and the Romans, and even of some Oriental nations, but for the same reason they could not but fail. Then there was the theological bias, which caused all religions except one to be regarded as utterly false; the philosophical bias, which caused all religions, except the arbitrary abstraction then called natural religion, to be decried as mere superstitions, invented by shrewd priests and tyrants for selfish ends ; and, finally, the total lack of a sound method in historical investigation, which was one of the prominent characteristics of the 18th century. It was only after the brilliant discoveries which marked the end of that century and the first half of this, and after the not less brilliant researches to which they gave rise ; after the sacred writings of the Chinese, the Indians, the Persians, and some other ancient nations could be studied in the original ; after the finding of the key to the Egyptian hieroglyphics and the Assyrian and Babylonian cuneiform writing had lifted the veil Avhich for many centuries had covered the history of these most ancient civilizations—it was then only that a history of religion could be thought of and that something like a science of religion could be aimed at, if not yet founded.
The comparative historical study of religions is one of the means indispensable to the solution of the difficult problem What is religion ?—the other being a psychological study of man. It is one of the pillars on which not a merely speculative and fantastic, and therefore worthless, but a sound scientific philosophy of religion should rest. Still, like every department of study, it has its aim in itself. This aim is not to satisfy a vain curiosity, but to understand and explain one of the mightiest motors in the history of mankind, which formed as well as tore asunder nations, united as well as divided empires, which
sanctioned the most atrocious and barbarous deeds, the most cruel and libidinous customs, and inspired the most admirable acts of heroism, self-renunciation, and devotion, which occasioned the most sanguinary wars, rebellions, and persecutions, as well as brought about the freedom, happiness, and peace of nations—at one time a partisan of tyranny, at another breaking its chains, now calling into existence and fostering a new and brilliant civilization, then the deadly foe to progress, science, and art.
Religions, like living organisms, have a history, and therefore this is to be studied first, so far as it can be known,—how they rise and spread, grow and fade away; how far they are the creations of individual genius, and how far of the genius of nations and communities; by what laws, if it is possible to discover them, their development is ruled; what are their relations to philosophy,science,and art, to the state, to society, and above all to ethics; what is their mutual historical relation, that is, if one of them sprang from another, or if a whole group are to be derived from a common parent, or if they only borrowed from one another and were subject to one another’s influence; lastly, what place is to be assigned to each of those groups or single religions in the universal history of religion. The first result of this historical inquiry must be an attempt at a genealogical classification of religions, in which they are grouped after their proved or probable descent and affinity.
However, like every genuine scientific study, historical investigations, if they are to bear fruit, must be comparative. Not only has every religion as a whole, and every religious group, to be compared with others, that we may know in what particular qualities it agrees with or differs from them, and that we may determine its special characteristics, but, before this can be done, comparative study on a much larger scale must precede. Every religion has two prominent constituent elements, the one theoretical, the other practical—religious ideas and religious acts. The ideas may be vague conceptions, concrete myths, precise dogmas, either handed over by tradition or recorded in sacred books, combined or not into systems of mythology and dogmatics, summarized or not in a creed or symbol, but there is no living religion without something like a doctrine. On the other hand, a doctrine, however elaborate, does not constitute a religion. Scarcely less than by its leading ideas a religion is characterized by its rites and institutions, including in the higher phases of development moral precepts, in the highest phases ethical principles. It happens but very seldom, if ever, that those two elements balance each other. In different religions they are commonly found in very different proportions, some faiths being pre-eminently doctrinal or dogmatic, others pre-eminently ritualistic or ethical; but where one of them is wanting entirely religion no longer exists. Not that dogma and ritual are religion; they are only its necessary manifestations, the embodiment of what must be considered as its very life and essence, of that which as an inner conviction must be distinguished from a doctrine or creed—a belief. But we cannot get a knowledge of the belief which lies at the base of a particular doctrine and which prompts peculiar rites and acts, without studying the mythical and dogmatical conceptions and the ritual or ethical institutions in which it takes its shape, and without comparing these with others. This then is the task of what is called comparative theology in its widest sense, of which comparative mythology is only a branch, and in which more space and attention should be given to the hitherto much neglected comparative study of religious worship and of ethics in their relation to religion. It is then only that we can proceed to characterize and mutually compare religions themselves, regarded as a whole, and that we may come
to what must be the final result of this historical as well as comparative study, a morphological classification of religions. Here the study of religions reaches its goal, and the task of the philosophy of religion, the other main branch of the so-called science of religion or general theology, begins.
It need scarcely be said that the basis of the comparative historical study of religions must be a patient and critical examination of the sources from which the knowledge of the various religions of the world is to be drawn, viz., written documents and traditions, monuments and works of art, sacred writings and heretical books, and, when we wish to inquire into the religions of the uncivilized tribes that have no history at all, an impartial weighing of the evidence brought by travellers and settlers from different parts of the globe,—in short, an unbiassed ascertaining of facts.
Genealogical Classification. —There is no difficulty in determining the descent and relationship of religions which have taken rise in historical times, such as Confucianism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, Mohammedanism, and some others of minor importance. But the great majority of ancient religions had their origin in prehistoric times, of which neither documents nor trustworthy traditions are extant. In that case their mutual relation has to be established by reasoning from the myths, ideas, rites, and characteristics common to them. Professor Max Müller (.Lectures on tlie Science of Religion, pp. 154 sq.) suggests that, whatever classification has been found most useful in the science of language ought to prove equally useful in the science of religion. Now it may be true in general, at least for the most ancient times, that where the languages of a group of nations are proved to belong to one family their religions too most probably “hold together by the same relationship.” But this hypothesis requires proof, and that proof is not to be obtained otherwise than by the comparative study of the religions themselves. Only when the religions of two independent nations agree in doctrine and mode of worship, above all in the notion of the relation between God and man, between the divine and the human, to such a degree and in such a manner that this agreement cannot be accounted for by the universal aspirations and wants of human nature, then only may we feel sure that the one of these religions is the parent of the other, or that both have come from a common stock. If not only two but several religions agree in like manner, or nearly so, we get a family, of religions. At present we can go no farther. The mutual relations of the different families cannot be determined yet; the problem is too difficult and too complicated to be solved in the present state of science. That religions belonging to different families have borrowed myths and customs from one another and have been subjected to one another’s influence may easily be proved. But whether the families themselves are branches of one and the same old tree is an open question to which a satisfactory answer cannot be given now.
It would be equally premature to venture on drawing up a complete genealogical table of religions. For some families of religions such a classification may be sketched with tolerable certainty; the genealogy of by far the greater number of them can be given in mere outlines only, leaving the fixing of details for further inquiry. We start from what may be held the most certain.
. Aryan or Indo-Germanic Family.—Comparative mythology and the history of religion leave no doubt that all the religions of the Aryan or Indo-Germanic nations, viz., Eastern Aryans (or Indians, Persians, and Phrygians) and Western Aryans (or Greeks, Romans, Germans, Norsemen, Letto-Slavs, and Celts), are the common offspring of one
| primitive Old-Aryan@@1 religion. That the same name of the highest heaven-god, Dyaus, Zeus, Ju(piter), Zio (Ty), is met with among Indians, Greeks, Italiotes, Germans, and Norsemen, however great the difference of the attributes and dignity ascribed by each of them to the god thus named may be, is a fact now generally known. Where this name has been lost, as is the case with the Persians, the Slavs, and the Celts, there are other divine names which they have in common with their kindred nations. Still more important is the fact that most Aryans show a tendency to call their supreme god “father,” as is proved by the very common forms Dyaus pitar, Zeus TvaTTjp, Jupiter, Diespiter, Marspiter, AlfbcTr. The supreme god in the Avesta, Ahuramazda, is often called father. Moreover many divine names used by different Aryan nations, though varying in form, are derived from the same root,—which proves the original unity of their conception. Take as examples the root di (div), “to shine,” and its derivatives Dyaus, Deva, and their family, Diti, Aditi, Dione, Pandion, Dionysos, Diovis, Dianus (Janus), Diana, Juno ; or the root man, “ to think ” (perhaps equally signifying originally “to shine”), and its derivatives Manu, Minos, Minerva, (Juno) Moneta; or the roots sur (svar), sar, mar, vas. Especially startling is the use of the same general word for “ god ” among several Aryan nations, viz., Skr. deva, Iran, daeva, Lat. deus, Litth. dewas (deiwys), Old Norse tivar (plur.), to which belong perhaps also Greek 6e6<s, Irish dia, Cyinr. deiv. Daeva and deiwys are used in a bad sense, but this cannot be original. So too the word asura (ahura), which, though it too was used by the Indians in relatively modern times in a bad sense, was the name which the East-Aryans gave to their highest gods, and the Norse asa, pi. eesir (orig. ans), are both to be derived from the root as, a?ih. If we add to this the remarkable conformity of the myths and customs in all Aryan religions,—if, above all, by comparing them with those of other races, especially of the Semites, we find that the leading idea embodied in these Aryan myths and rites is everywhere the same, however different the peculiar character of each religion may be, namely, the close relation between God and man, the real unity between the divine and the human economy,@@2 so that we may call them the “ theanthropic ” religions,—if we remember this, there can be no doubt that all of them have sprung from one primitive Old-Aryan religion.
However, the degree in which the Aryan religions are mutually related is not always the same. None of them came directly from the Old-Aryan religion. They consist of five pairs, each of which must have been first a unity:— the Indo-Persian, the Graeco-Roman, the Letto-Slavic, the Norse-Teutonic, and the Gaelo-Cymric. The fact that the members of those pairs are more closely allied with one another than with the other members of the family obliges us to assume five prehistoric Aryan religions:—the Old East-Aryan, the Old Pelasgic,@@3 the Old Win dig, the Old German, and the Old Celtic religions, forming so many links between those historical religions and the common parent of all,—the primeval Ar yan worship.
Space forbids us to give the complete proof of this conclusion. We only mention that the Indian and Iranian religions have many gods in common, unknown to the Western Aryans, and therefore probably such as arose after the eastern and western branch of the family had separated, e.g., Mitra—Mitlira, Ary am an—Airyaman, Bhaga—Bagha— Baga (comp, also Aramati—Armaiti, Sarasvati—Hara-
@@@1    Tliis special type indicates prehistoric religions.
@@@2    This is why they call the Godhead “father,” or even “brother, friend, companion.” Compare the names Mitra—Mithra, “friend,” Aryaman—Airyaman, “companion,” &c.
@@@3    The name is not exact. It is only chosen as the most convenient.
Genealogical Table of the Aryan Religions.@@1
@@@1 Prehistoric religions are marked with an asterisk (*)
qaiti, Ac.), and that the Soma—Haoma sacrifice, equally unknown in Europe, at least in that form, was the principal sacrifice as well in India as in Iran. The close relation of the Teutonic and Norse religions, and of the mythology and rites of the Greeks and Romans, even if we carefully except all that the latter took from the former in historical times, is sufficiently proved. It is not so evident, but still highly probable, that the religions of the north-western and the south-eastern Celts, though differing from one another in historical times, are daughters of one ancient Celtic religion. When we presuppose such a common parent, an ancient Windic religion, for the Letto-Slavic religions, we do so by way of an hypothesis, based on the analogy with the other branches of the family. What we know about these and about the Celtic forms of worship is so defective that we cannot speak more positively. As for the Phrygian religion, it seems to belong to the Iranian stock, and to form the transition from the Persian to the Greek or Pelasgic worship.
There may have been some other intermediate stages, besides those which we have been compelled by the facts to assume, between the historical Aryan religions and the prehistoric Old-Aryan. Thus, e.g., the Vedic religion as well as the Zarathustric cannot be considered as having sprung directly from the East-Aryan. The Rig-Veda appears to be far less primitive than has been generally thought until now. It contains ancient elements, but it is itself the product of relatively modern speculations, and belongs to a period in which a complicated and mystical sacrificial theory was upheld by priests of various functions and ranks. On the other hand it cannot be denied that the Zarathustric dogmas are pure old Aryan myths in a new shape—this is what M. Jas. Darmesteter has proved —but it was doubtless a reformer, or, if Zarathustra was no historical person, a body of reformers, who called the Zarathustric religion into existence. Therefore, between the Vedic and Zarathustric religions and their common ancestor the East-Aryan,, there must have existed an Old Indian and an Old-Iranian religion.
This may suffice to justify the genealogical table of the Aryan religions given on last page.
:. Semitic Religions.—Though there is so much wanting in our knowledge of the Semitic religions, especially as regards those of the pre-Christian Aramaeans, of the pre-Islamic Arabs, and of the old Hebrews, all we know about them tends to prove that they too must have descended
from a common source. When wo find that the same divinities were worshipped by several Nortli-Semitic nations it might be contended that they were borrowed from one of them, as trade and conquest had brought them from ancient times into close contact with one another. But no such relation existed till the very last centuries of the Assyrian empire between the Northern Semites and the various tribes of the Arabian desert. Therefore gods and religious ideas and customs prevailing alike among the northern and the southern or Arabic branch of the race may be safely regarded as the primeval property of the whole family. Such are the general name for the godhead, Ilu, El, Ilah (in Allah), and the gods Serakh or Sherag (^epa^ov, Assyr., Arab., Cypr.), Keivan (Kaivanu, Babyl., Assyr., Arab., cf. Amos v. 26), Al-Lat, the moon-goddess (Babyl., Assyr., Arab.), as one of three different forms, of which another, the Al-'Uzza of the Arabs, is met with as 'Uza or 'Aza in Phoenician inscriptions, while the corresponding male god Aziz is found among the Arammans, and the third, Manat, corresponds to Meni, the “minor Fortune,” the planet Venus of the Hebrews, perhaps also with the Babylonian Manu. The myth of the dying and reviving Thammuz, Dumuzi, common to all Northern Semites, seems not to have been current among the ancient Arabs, though some scholars (Krehl, Lenor-mant) think there are traces of it left in their traditions and rites. Tree worship and stone worship have been pretty general in prehistoric times, and not a few remains of both have survived in all ancient faiths and modern superstitions; but the latter was particularly developed among both Northern and Southern Semites, which is proved by the use of Betyles (?N־n2׳׳)j by the black stone in the Ka'ba, the stone at Bethel, that in the temple of the great goddess of Cyprus at Paphos, at Edessa, and elsewhere, by the seven black stones representing the planet-gods at Erech (Uruk) in Chaldma, Ac. Holy mountains too are very frequent among the Semites, alike in Arabia (Ka<p, Dhu-l-shera, Horeb, Sinai—the two last-named still worshipped by the Saracens in the 6th century of our era) and in Canaan (Hermon, Tabor, comp, the Tabyrios and Zeus Atabyrios in Cyprus, Karmel, Peniel, Sion, Moriah, i.e., Gerizim), in Syria (Lebanon, Anti-Libanus, Amanus; comp, the istirdt, the heights of modern Syria), and in Mesopotamia, where the zigurrats or terrace towers represent the holy mountains as the abodes of the gods. Finally, all Semitic religions without a single
exception understand the relation between God and man as one between the supreme lord and king (El the mighty, Baal, Bel, Adon, Malik, Sar) and his subject or slave ('Abd, 'Obed, Bod), his client or protected one (Jar, Gel־). They are eminently theocratic, and show a marked tendency to monotheism, which, both in Israel and in Arabia, is the last word of their religious development.
It is not so easy to determine the grade of relationship between the different Semitic religions as it is to show that they all descend from a common parent. Moreover the question is complicated by another problem—Whether the Babylonians and Assyrians borrowed the greater part of their religious conceptions and institutions from a foreign, non-Semitic people, the primitive inhabitants of their country, and if this be the case what they then have of their own and what is due to the influence of that ancient civilization. Whatever may be the final solution of this question, we shall not go far wrong if we distinguish the Semitic religions into two principal groups—the one comprising the southern or Arabic, with perhaps the most ancient Hebrew, the other all the Northern Semitic religions from the Tigris to the Mediterranean,—leaving it undecided whether the undeniable relationship between the north-eastern and the north-western Semitic religions be that of parent and children or that of sisters—in other words, whether it be due to the influence of the superior culture of the former or to the fact that they all have radiated from a common centre. This only is beyond doubt, that the Assyrian religion is a daughter of the Babylonian, and that the Canaanitic and Phoenician modes of worship are closely allied.
What we give on last page is no more than a rough genealogical table of the Semitic religions.
A detailed and accurate genealogical classification of the religions which do not belong to either of those two principal families is out of the question. Their mutual relation can be fixed only in a general way.
African Religions.—The first problem to be solved is the classification of the Egyptian religion. It is neither Semitic and theocratic nor Aryan and theanthropic. But it has many elements that belong to the former, and also a few elements that belong to the latter category, which might lead to the supposition that it represents a stage in the development of the great Mediterranean, commonly called the Caucasian, race, anterior to the separation of the Aryan family from the Semitic. But this is no more than a supposition, as the existence of such a Mediterranean race, embracing the so-called Hamites, Semites, and Japhetites or Aryans, is itself a pure hypothesis. All we know is that the Egyptians themselves mention a people called Punt (the Phut of the Bible), with whom they had commercial relations and whose religion was akin to their own, so much so that they called the country of Punt, on the western Arabian and on the opposite African coast, the Holy Land (la neter). The same may be said of the Cushites, the southern neighbours of Egypt, the ancient pre-Semitic Ethiopians; and a pre-Semitic population also may have lived in Canaan, allied to the Egyptians and ethnologically or genealogically combined with them, with Cush, and with Phut in the tenth chapter of Genesis. But, as we know next to nothing about their religions, a Hamitic family of religions, including these four, is still purely hypothetical.
That the primitive religion of southern Mesopotamia, commonly called Accadian or Sumerian, was related to the Egyptian, is also a mere conjecture, which does not seem to be favoured by the newly discovered facts. Finally, the scanty remains of the pre-Islarnic religion of the Imoshagh or Berbers, the ancestors of the Libyans (in Egyptian Eibu), the Gaetulians, the Mauretanians, and the Numidians resemble in some degree Egyptian customs
and notions; but, whether they point to genealogical relationship or are due to early Egyptian influence, it is hard to say.
This, however, cannot be denied, that there are to be found in the Egyptian religion a great many magical rites and animistic customs, closely resembling those which prevail throughout the whole African continent. If then, as is generally supposed,@@1 the dominant race sprang from Asiatic settlers and conquerors, who long before the dawn of history invaded the country, subjugated the dark-coloured inhabitants, and mixed with them, and if it is to these foreigners that the more elevated elements in the Egyptian religion are due, the basis of this religion is of a purely Nigritian character.
All we can say about the other original religions of the dark continent is that they resemble one another in many respects. We may distinguish four principal groups :—(1) the Cushite, inhabiting the i)orth-eastern coast region south of Egypt; (2) the Nigritian proper, including all the Negro tribes of inner Africa and the west coast; (3) the Bantu or Kaffrarian (Kafir); and (4) the Klioi-Khoin or Hottentot, including the Bushmen, in South Africa. Before we can come to decision with regard to the first-named group, we must receive better and more certain information than we now possess. The prominent characteristic of the second group of religions, those of the Negroes proper, is their unlimited fetichism, combined as usual with tree worship, animal worship, especially that of serpents, with a strong belief in sorcery and with the most abject superstitions, which even Islam and Christianity are not able to overcome. They have next to no mythology, at all events a very poor one, which may be one of the causes of what is called euphemistically their tendency to monotheism. A theistic tendency, as Dr Tylor calls it, cannot be denied to them. Almost all tribes believe in some supreme god, without always worshipping him, generally a heaven- and rain-god, sometimes, as among the Cameroons and in Dahomey, a sun-god. But the most widely spread worship among Negroes and Negroids, from wr est to north-east and south to Loango, is that of the moon, combined with a great veneration for the cow.
Among the Abantu or Kaffrarians (Ama-Kliosa, Ama-Zulu, Be-Chuana, Ova-Herero), which form the third group, fetichism is not so exuberant. Their religion is rather a religion of spirits. The spirits they worship, not sharply distinguished from the souls of the departed ancestors (Imi-shologu, Barimi), are conjured up by a caste of sorcerers and magicians, Isintonga (Isinyanga, Nyaka), and are all subordinate to a ruling spirit, regarded as the ancestor of the race, the highest lawgiver who taught them their religious rites, but who seems to have been originally a moon-god as the lord of heaven. The four tribes give him different names—the Ghost (Mu-kuro), the very High (Mo-limo), the Great-great (Unku-lunkulu) or grandfather; but that the Bantu religions are four branches of one and the same faith cannot be doubted. They agree in many respects with those of the Negroes, but differ from them in others, especially in the cardinal characteristic of the latter, their fetichism. Possibly the difference is for the greater part due to the influence of the Hottentots, to whom the country now inhabited by the Abantu formerly belonged, and who seem to have been at the time of the invasion more civilized than the latter.
The Ivhoi-Khoin or Hottentots, who are not black but brown, and who now live in and near the Cape Colony,
@@@1 Even Rob. Hartmann, Die Nigritier, Beilin, 1876, pp. 192 sq., who denies the existence of a Hamitic race, and considers the Egyptians as Nubian Cushites, separated from the others in early times, ascribes their higher civilization to their intercourse with Semitic settlers.
also have a supreme deity, called Tsui- or Tsuni-Koab (the wounded knee) by the colonial Hottentots, Heitsi-eibib (wooden face) by the Namaqua. He, too, like the highest god of the Bantu, is the ancestor of the race and the chief of souls and spirits. But the primitive myth current about him shows that he was originally a moon-god, contending with the spirit of darkness. The altars intended for sacrifices to this god are now called his graves, and the Bantu, who do not use them, call them chiefs’ graves. The great dilference between the religions of the Khoi-Khoin and the other Nigritians is the total absence of animal worship and of fetichism by which it is characterized. Even sorcery and magic are still very primitive among them. Therefore they must be considered as a distinct family among the African tribes, only allied to the so-called Bushmen (Ba-tua, Ba-roa, or Soaqua, Sonqua), who seem to be a degraded race, sunk to the lowest degree of savagery, but who likewise worship a highest god and by whom likewise fetichism is not practised.
The Chinese Religions, and their Relation to the Mongolic and Ural-Altaic.—This is perhaps the most knotty point in the genealogical classification of religions. There are ethnologists (as Oscar Pescliel) who bring not only the Chinese, with their nearest relatives the Japanese and Coreans,—all Ural-Altaic or Turanian nations,—but also the whole Malay race, including the Polynesians and Micronesians, and even the aboriginal Americans, from the Eskimo to the Patagonians and Fuegians, under one and the same vast Mongoloid family. There is indeed some similarity in the religious customs of the Americans and of the so-called Turanians; and even in the Polynesian religions some points of contact with those of the former might be discovered. Still, such conformities are but few and not very important, and do not justify our going so far.@@1 Other ethnologists, like Friedrich Müller, do not admit the Americans, including the Hyperboreans of North America and the north-west of Asia, nor the Malayans and the Polynesians as members of the Mongolian race. This, according to them, only comprises the Chinese and their relatives in Tibet and the Transgangetic peninsula, the Japanese and Coreans, and the Ural-Altaic or Turanian nations. Now Prof. Max Midler@@2 tries to . show that the religions of all those groups of nations—let us say, of this Mongolian race—are also bound together by a close relationship, because not only their character is fundamentally the same, but even the same name of the highest god, Tien, Tengre, Tangara, Ac., is met with among most of them. Putting aside the argument taken from the common name of the supreme deity, which is all but general among the members of this ethnical family and seems to have come from the Chinese to some of the Mongolians,@@3 we cannot deny the fact that not only in the Ural-Altaic and Japanese but also in the highly-developed Chinese religions the relation between the divine powers and man is purely patriarchal. Just as the chief of the horde—nay, even the son of heaven, the Chinese emperor— is regarded as the father of all his subjects, whom they are bound to obey and to venerate, so are the gods to their worshippers. The only difference is that the Chinese heaven-god Tien is an emperor like his earthly representative, ruling over the other spirits of heaven and earth as does the latter over the dukes of the empire and their subjects, while the Ural-Altaic heaven-god is indeed the most powerful being, invoked in the greatest difficulties, when he only is able to save, but no supreme ruler,— not
anything more than a , primus inter pares, every other god being absolute lord and master in his own domain. Now this difference is not one of character but of progress, and answers fully to the difference of the political institutions of which it is the reflex.
The high veneration for the spirits of the deceased fathers, which are devoutly worshipped among all the members of this religious family, is a necessary consequence of its patriarchal type. But this feature is not less predominant among nations belonging to wholly different races. Another striking characteristic of the Mongolic religions is their extensive magic and sorcery (Shamanism). One might say that even the gods and the heroes of epic poetry are sorcerers, and that what their worshippers value above all are the magical powers they possess. Shamans are most highly honoured. One of the Chinese religions, and in fact that which contains the most ancient elements, we mean Taoism, involves the most implicit belief in sorcery, and even Buddhism, as it was adopted by the Mongols and the Chinese, has degenerated to all but pure Shamanism.
We are thus fully justified in assuming a Mongolian or patriarchal family of religions, of which the following are the principal subdivisions :—
1.    Chinese Religions, being (a) the Ancient National religion, now superseded partly by (6) Confucianism and (c) Taoism, partly, though only several centuries later, by Chinese Buddhism. What the ancient national religion was can only be gathered from its survivals in the still existing faiths. Confucianism claims to be a restoration of the old and pure institutions of the fathers, though it may just as well be said to be a thorough reform, and Taoism is, according to some European scholars, the original Chinese religion in its latest development—we should say, in its most miserable degradation. At all events, in some form or another, it is much older than Lao-tsze (6tli century b.c., see Lao-tsze), though it has availed itself of his mystical treatise Tao-te-King as a sacred book. There may be some truth in both these conflicting assertions. Without venturing to speculate on the origin of the Chinese nationality, which according to some is a mixture of autochthons with more civilized foreign invaders (the Hundred Families), nor on the possibility that this ethnic dualism may be the source of the two streams of religious development in China, we have some ground to hold Confucius’s reform as the renewal of a much older reform (Chowkung’s or even earlier), limited to the learned and the greater part of the upper classes,—Taoism on the contrary being a revival of the ancient popular Chinese religion, to which the Tao-te-King had to give the appearance of a philosophical basis. Chinese Buddhism does not differ much from the latter, and is now equally despised.
2.    Japanese Religions, where we have again the same triad, nearly parallel to the Chinese : (a) the old national religion Kami-no־madsu (the way, i.e., the wprship, of the gods), called frequently Sin-to (Chinese Shin-tao, the way or worship of the spirits), with the mikado as its spiritual head, just as Chinese Taoism had its popes; (b) Confucianism, imported from China in the 7th century; and (c) Buddhism, imported from Corea and nearly exterminated in the 6th century, but reviving, and at last, in the beginning of the 7tli century, triumphant.
3.    The Finnic branch of the Ural-Altaic religions, all recognizing the same heaven-god Num, Yum, Yummal, Yubmel, Yumala, as supreme. The primitive unity of this subdivision has been demonstrated by Castren, the highest authority upon it. By far the best known of this family are its North-European members, the religions of the Lapps, the Esthonians, and the Finns, but the two last named are not pure specimens of Ural-Altaic worship, as
@@@1 They are enumerated by Waitz, Anthropologie der Naturvölker, iii., 56 sq.    @@@2 Lectures on the Science of Religion, 190 sq.
@@@3 The resemblance of the Mongolian Tengre, Tangara, to the Sumerian or Accadian Dingira appears to be equally fortuitous as that of the Polynesian Tangaroa (Taaroa) to the Melanesian Ndengei.
they borrowed much from the Germanic, especially from the Scandinavian, mythology.
It is highly probable that the other branches of the same ethnic family, the Mongolian and the Turkish, and the other members of the same branch, e.g., the Magyars, originally did not differ much from the Finnic in religious ideas and customs. Unfortunately we are here able to judge only by analogy, partly because we are but imperfectly informed, partly because most of these nations have long been converted to Buddhism, Mohammedanism, and Christianity. Nor do we know in how far the Tibetans, Burmese, Siamese, and other peoples nearly related to the Chinese had originally a similar worship, as all of them are now faithful Buddhists.
The question whether the religion of the primitive inhabitants of Mesopotamia (Sumer-Akkad) has any genealogical relation to that of the Chinese and the Ural-Altaic family, as some scholars now try to prove, is not yet ripe for solution.
The Aboriginal Religions of America.—The religions of the Eskimo (Esquimantsic, Ashkimeg, as their Redskin neighbours call them) or Innuyt (i.e., “men,״ as they call themselves) should be clearly distinguished from those of the other American nations. Though some of their customs and notions resemble those of the latter, there are others, and it would seem the most important, which are of the same character as those prevailing among the Ural-Altaians and Mongols. Now, as they belong ethnically to the Hyperborean or Arctic nations, who inhabit not only the extreme north of America from east to west, but also the islands between the two continents and besides a part of the east of Siberia, and as these Hyperboreans are physically akin to the Mongolian race, we might suppose that the American elements in the Eskimo religion have been borrowed, and that it must be considered to have been originally a member of the Ural-Altaic family. Their division of the world of spirits into those of the sea, the fire, the mountains, and the winds, with Torngarsuk (chief of spirits), the heaven-god, as the highest, and their belief in the magical power of their sorcerers, the Angekoks, do not differ from those which characterize the Ural-Altaic religions. At any rate the religion of the Eskimo is the connecting link between the latter and those of the American aborigines.
That all the other religions of North and South America are most closely allied is generally admitted, and is indeed beyond doubt. Several myths, like those of the sun-liero, of the moon-goddess, of the four brothers (the winds),@@1 are found in their characteristic American form among the most distant tribes of both continents. Some religious customs, scarcely less characteristic, such as the sweating bath, intended to cause a state of ecstasy, the ball-play, a kind of ordeal, the sorcery by means of the rattle, are all but generally practised. Fetichism and idolatry are much less developed among the Americans than among other uncivilized and semi-civilized races, but a marked tendency to gloomy rites and bloody self-torture is common to all.
The American family of religions may be divided into the following principal groups. (1) Those of the Redskins of North America, from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, all of whom have in common the worship of the great spirit (Kitche Manitoo, Michabo, Wahcon[da], Anduagni, Oki) who is the ghost of heaven, the highest wind-god, to whom all other spirits, even those of the sun and the moon, are
subordinate; also the hero myth which has sprung from that belief, and the so-called totemism, i.e., the adoption of a special tutelar genius, usually in animal form, for every individual family. (2) Those of the Aztec race, comprising the Aztecs, Toltecs, and Nahuas, who are spread from Vancouver’s Island to Nicaragua. To this branch belongs that strange mixture of more elevated religious ideas and barbarous rites which was the state worship of the Mexican empire, but which for its purer elements was indebted to the conquered race, the Mayas (see Mexico). (3) Those of the original inhabitants of the Antilles, to whom the Mayas in Yucatan and the Natchez between the Red River and the Mississippi seem to be nearly related. They are one of the most gifted nations of the American race, with an interesting mythology and highly-developed religious ideas, but perhaps weakened by civilization and therefore unable to withstand the more warlike barbarous tribes, by wlipm they were finally subjugated. (4) That of the Muyscas (Chibchas) in South America. Originally they seem to have had the same worship as the Nicaraguans. At least the Nicaraguan god Fomagazdad, the creator of mankind and the consort of the moon-goddess, acts a part in the principal myth of the Muyscas, under the name of Fomagata. But after the latter had reached a higher stage of civilization they adored the god Bochika as its principal founder, and Fomagata became a dethroned tyrant, while the moon-goddess, now an evil deity, tried to spoil the beneficent works of Bochika. There is some likeness between their hierarchical political institutions and those of Peru, but they were never subjected to the power of the Incas, and it is not proved that they borrowed their culture from them. (5) Those of the Quichua, Aymara, and their relatives, which culminated in the sun worship of the Incas in Peru, spread by them throughout all the countries they conquered, and even reformed by some of them to a tolerably pure and elevated theism (not monotheism, as Dr Brinton contends). This most interesting religion ranks highest among all the faiths of the two American con-tinents, those of Central America not excepted. This remarkable progress is not to be derived from the influence of foreign settlers, come from Asia or Europe, but is here, as well as in Central America, the product of natural growth favoured by happy circumstances. (6) Those of the warlike Caribs and Arowaks, extending along the whole of the north coast of South America, who subjugated the peaceful inhabitants of the Antilles to their rule.
The Brazilian aborigines (Tupi-guaranos, Indios mansos), who form a distinct group, and the south-eastern and southern tribes (Abipones, Pampas Indians, Puelches, Patagonians or Tehuelches, Fuegians) have religious notions and customs quite in accordance with the low degree of their civilization. Only the Araucanians, though ethnically the nearest relations of the Fuegians and perhaps of the Pampas Indians, have a somewhat advanced sun worship, but seem to have been influenced by the ascendency of Peruvian culture.
Lastly we come to the Malayo-Polynesian family of religions. The primitive ethnic unity of this widely scattered race, which, including the Micronesians and Melanesians, inhabits the islands in the Great Pacific from Easter Island to the Pelew Archipelago, the East Indian Archipelago, and the Malay Peninsula, and to which belong the Hovas of Madagascar, has been established on sufficient evidence. As to their primitive religious unity we cannot be equally positive. The original religions of the ]Malay archipelago have given ])lace first to Brahmanism and Buddhism, afterwards to !Mohammedanism, lastly, though only sporadically, to Christianity. But, so far as we can iudce from what has still survived of the aboriginal
@@@1 The myth of the four brothers is met with, e.g., among the Algonkins, the Mayas in Yucatan, the Tzendal branch of the Maya race, the Tarascos in Michoacan near Mexico, the Aztecs, by whom it is combined with that of Quetzalcoatl, all through North America, and even in Peru. See Brinton, Hero Myths, pp. 44, 162, 216, 208, 73, 179.
worship and from what is known of the religious customs of the Malagasy, especially the Hovas, the ancient Malay religions did not differ more from the Polynesian and the Melanesian than do the languages. There is one institution especially which, though in principle and to a certain degree common to all ancient religions, has nowhere acquired that importance and that peculiar development which it has grown to in the Polynesian aud the Melanesian religions, the institution of the taboo, a kind of interdict laid on objects and persons, by which they are made sacred and inviolable. Now this taboo, which more than anything else characterizes these religions, was equally important in Madagascar before Radama’s reforms, and exists also among the Malays, who call it Pamali, nay, even among the Australians, who call it Kuinyunda, There are some other customs common to all these nations, as the particular worship of the ghosts of the deceased, some ordeals, &c., but this is of minor importance. The general observance of such a peculiar custom as the taboo by all the peoples belonging to this ethnic family, a custom which rules their whole religion, gives us the right to speak of a Malayo-Polynesian family of religions.
One distinct branch of this family is the Polynesian, which has everywhere the same myths with only local varieties, and the same supreme god Taaroa or Tangaroa. The Micronesian branch is only a subdivision of it. The Melanesian branch differs more widely, but agrees in the main, and the supreme god Ndengei, whether original or borrowed, is evidently the same as Tangaroa. That the Malay branch had its marked subdivisions is very probable ; but the settlement of this difficult question must be left to further research. According to ethnologists the Australians and the now extinct Tasmanians do not belong to the Malayo-Polynesian race. But, as their religion shows the same prominent characteristic as the Polynesian, and, moreover, agrees with it in other respects, they must be in some way related.
These are the rough outlines of a genealogical classification of religions. It embraces nearly all of them. Only a few have been purposely left out, such as those of the Dravidas, the Munda tribes, and the Sinhalese in India, partly for want of trustworthy information, partly because it is not yet certain what belongs to them originally and what is due to Hindu influence. At any rate we cannot consider their religions as allied to the Ural-Altaic. We have also omitted the religions of the Basque or Euscal-dunac, of which nothing particular is known, and for obvious reasons the Etrurian. Even if the intricate problem with regard to their language could be solved, the Etrurians borrowed so much from the Greek mythology that it would be next to impossible to state what kind of religion they originally had as their own.
Morphological Classification of Religions.—In his Lectures on the Science of Religion, pp. 123-143, Prof. Max Müller, who has done so much to raise the comparative study of religions to the rank of a science, criticizes the most usual modes of classification applied to religions, viz., (1) that into true and false, (2) that into revealed and natural, (3) that into national and individual, (4) that into polytheistic, dualistic, and monotheistic, and dismisses each and all of them as useless and impracticable. In this we cannot but acquiesce in his opinion and hold his judgment as decisive. The only exception we should like to take refers to the classification under (3), which, as we shall presently show, contains more truth than he is disposed to admit. And when he winds up his argument with the assertion that “the only scientific and truly genetic classification of religions is the same as the classification of languages ” we must dissent from him. Even the genealogical classification of religions does not always
run parallel with that of languages. Prof. Max Müller says that, “ particularly in the early history of the human intellect, there exists the most intimate relationship between language, religion, and nationality.” This may be generally true; we do not deny it. But the farther history advances the more does religion become independent of both language and nationality. And that the stage of development a religion has attained to—the one thing to be considered for a morphological classification— has nothing to do with the language of its adherents is obvious. Now for a really scientific study of religions such a morphological classification is absolutely necessary, and therefore we are bound by our subject to give our opinion with regard to the truly scientific principle on which it ought to be based.
First let us see what has already been done to this effect by one of the best authorities. Prof. W. D. Whitney, in an interesting article “ On the so-called Science of Religion,” declares for the well-known classification of religions into national and individual. To quote his own words, “ There is no more marked distinction among religions than the one we are called upon to make between a race religion—which, like a language, is the collective product of the wisdom of a community, the unconscious growth of generations—and a religion proceeding from an individual founder, who, as leading representative of the better insight and feeling of his time (for otherwise he would meet with no success), makes head against formality and superstition, and recalls his fellow-men to sincere and intelligent faith in a new body of doctrines, of specially moral aspect, to which he himself gives shape and coherence. Of this origin are Zoroastrianism, Mohammedanism, Buddhism; and, from the point of view of the general historian of religions, whatever difference of character and authority he may recognize in its founder, Christianity belongs in the same class with them, as being an individual and universal religion, growing out of one that was limited to a race.” We hardly think that this reasoning can be unconditionally assented to. At any rate we must put it in another way. Before the American scholar’s essay was published, it had already been judiciously observed by Prof. Max Müller that, though neither a Brahman, nor a Greek, nor a Roman could name the name of the founder of his religion, we discover even there the influence of individual minds or schools or climates. So he thinks that this classification is useful for certain purposes, but fails as soon as we attempt to apply it in a more scientific spirit. This is partially true. What is the wisdom of a community but the wisdom of its more enlightened members, that is, of individuals! Religions of which the origin and history lies in the dark may be called the unconscious growth of generations, but in a figurative sense only. If they have a mythology and a ritual of their own, it may be the result of something like natural selection ; but every myth meant to explain natural phenomena, every rite meant to still the wrath or to win the favour of the higher powers and accepted as an integral part of their faith and worship, perhaps first by some more advanced members of a tribe or nation or community only, afterwards by all of them, was originally the creation of one single human mind. On the other hand, if founders of higher religions are themselves “the leading representatives of the better insight and feeling of their time,” then here too there is only growth ; they are at the head of their contemporaries, because the better insight and feeling of the latter culminate in them, and because they are able to lend them a shape which makes the more advanced ideas and sentiments agreeable to the minds and hearts of the many; but they meet with success only when that which they
preach lies hidden and lives unspoken in the minds and f hearts of their generation. It is clear then, that on both sides of the line of demarcation between the two categories of religions there are individuals at work, and that on both sides there is growth. The only remaining difference is, that on this side there is consciousness, on that side there is not. But this too cannot serve us. Much in the growth of the so-called race religions was unconscious and therefore anonymous and forgotten; much, however, was not so. We know of many changes for better or worse in national religions, either reforms or reactions, made with full consciousness, because intentionally; and we know the names of the kings or tyrants or other individuals who made them. Who knows if the same Avas not the case when these religions Avere born—if A\r hat noAv seems to be the collective product of the wisdom of the community \A־as not simply the product of a tyrant’s, a mighty chieftain’s bon plaisir, or of a renoAvned magician’s influence 1 Finally, if by “ founder of a religion ” is meant he Avhom the professors of that religion revere as a heaven-born messenger of the truth or as the greatest of prophets, or adore as the son of God, the incarnation of the highest, —then Avhat Prof. Whitney says they all did, namely, “ give shape and coherence to a body of doctrines of specially moral aspect,” does not apply to the most of them. The neAV body of doctrines in its coherence Avas never shaped by them, but by the leaders of the community to which their preaching gave rise. We call them founders of a neAv religion, not because they ahvays intended to found one, but because, perhaps involuntarily, they laid the foundations of it in the new and pregnant principles they revealed to the world by their Avord and life.
Still, Avhatever Ave may have to criticize in Prof. Whitney’s proposition, there is indeed no more marked distinction among religions than the one he makes betAveen AA־hat he calls race religions and religions proceeding from an individual founder, and no other than this should be the basis of a morphological classification. For betAveen those tAvo great categories or orders to one or other of Avhich all known religions belong and eAr ery religion must belong there is a difference not only of degree but of an essential kind, a difference of principle, the one great all-important difference. The principle of the one category is nature, that of the other ethics.
In the nature religions the supreme gods are the mighty poAvers of nature, be they demons, spirits, or man-like beings, and ever so highly exalted. There are great mutual : differences betAveen these religions, though they belong to the same order,—e.g., a great difference betAveen the Finnic Ukko and the Norse OcTin, bet\AT een the thunder-god of the Brazilian aborigines and the Yedic Indra or the Olympian Zeus, but it is only a difference of degree; fundamentally they are the same. Nobody denies that one nature religion stands on a much higher level than another. Not only are they either unconsciously and by the drift of public opinion or consciously and intentionally altered, enriched, combined Avith foreign modes of AAr orship, but in some of them a constant and remarkable progress is also to be noticed. Gods are more and more anthropomorphized, rites humanized. For they are not by any means inaccessible to the influence of moral progress. From an early period moral ideas are combined Avith religious doctrines, and the old mythology is modified by them. Ethical attributes are ascribed to the gods, especially to the highest. Nay, ethical as well as intellectual abstractions are personified and worshipped as divine beings. But as a rule this happens only in the most advanced stages of nature worship; and, moreover, these ethical personifications are simply incorporated in the old system, and not only not distinguished from the nature
gods, but even subordinated to them. If some individuals— philosophers, sages, prophets—have risen to the consciousness that the moral ought to have predominance over the natural, yet nature religion, though strongly mixed with ethical elements, does not recognize this, and those who are called to represent and defend it abhor such independent thinkers and persecute them as dangerous enemies to the faith of the fathers. Nature religions cannot do otherAvise, at least if they do not choose to die at once. They can for a long time bear the introduction—let us say, infiltration—of moral, as Avell as msthetic, scientific, and philosophical notions into their mythology; they suffer from it, indeed, and this is instinctively felt by the headstrong defenders of the pure old tradition; but they are unable to shut them out, and if they did so they Avould be left behind and lose their hold on the minds and the hearts of the leading classes among more civilized nations. So they are obliged to let them in, Avere it only for self-preservation. But the reform must not exceed certain limits. If the ethical elements acquire the upper hand, so that they become the predominating principle, then the old forms break in twain by the too heavy burden of neAv ideas, and the old rites become obsolete as being useless. If the majority has at last outgroAvn the traditional worship and mythology—if it comes to the conclusion, Avhich was already the conviction of philosophers, that the old numina are only nomina, Zeus, Hera, Hestia only names for the sky, the aether, the fire,@@1 to Avhich moral attributes can be ascribed only in a tropical sense—then nature religion inevitably dies of inanition. No political power, no mighty priesthood, no poetry, no mysticism like that of the Neo-Platonists, no romanticism like that of Julian, not even an attempt to imitate the organization and the rites of an ethical religion, can save it any longer from utter decay.
When this culminating point has been reached, the way is prepared for the preaching of an ethical religious doctrine. Ethical religions do not exclude the old naturistic elements altogether, but subordinate them to the ethical principle and lend them something of an ethical tinge, that they may be more in accordance Avith the noAv prevailing system. The old nature-gods, at least the most important among them, survive, and, though first neglected and throAvn into the background by the neAv ideal or abstract divine beings, come again to the front, but only as serving spirits, ministers, angels (ayyeAoi, yazatas, &c), or : even saints, as all nature now stands under the control of | one supernatural ruler in Avhom the supremacy of moral laAv is personified. Noav the prominent characteristics of ethical religions are just the reverse of that which characterizes the naturistic. Nature religions are polydie-monistic or polytheistic; under favourable circumstances they may rise at best to monolatry. Ethical religions, on the other hand, though not all of them strictly monotheistic or pantheistic, all tend to monotheism and are at least monarchic. In nature religions, though they are not exempt from the control of individuals, and even have in part received from them their particular shape or been reformed by them, the ethical or national aspect prevails over the individual, spontaneous groAvth over conscious speculation, imagination over reflexion. Ethical religions on the contrary are communities brought together, not by the common belief in national traditions, but by the common belief in a doctrine of salvation, and organized Avith the aim of maintaining, fostering, propagating, and
@@@1 This conclusion as such is utterly false. The gods are no mere nomina. They are not the natural phenomena themselves, but spirits, lords, ruling them. The fact is that their worshippers at last become conscious of the naturistic basis of their religion and then reject it.
practising that doctrine. So they are founded by indi- | viduals—founded, not instituted or organized, for that as a rule is done by the generation which follows that of the founder—and not always by one single person, but in some cases by a body of priests or teachers. This fundamental doctrine and the system based on it are considered by the adherents to be a divine revelation, and he who first revealed it, or is thought to have revealed it, is considered as an inspired prophet or a son of God. Nay, even if the primitive teaching had an atheistic tendency, as in the case of Buddhism, it is this real or mythical teacher whom they not only revere, but worship as their supreme deity.
We now come to the subdivisions of each of the two principal categories. And here we cannot silently pass by the classification of the least advanced religions proposed by Prof. Pfleiderer (Religionsphilosophie auf geschichtlicher Grundlage, 2d ed. 1884, vol. ii.), which supersedes the complete classification of religions given by him in an earlier work (Die Religion, ihr Wesen und ihre Geschichte). The latter was based on his conception of religion as the fusion of dependence and liberty, but has now been abandoned by the author.
According to Pfleiderer the original religion must have been a kind of indistinct, chaotic naturism, being an adoration of the natural phenomena as living powers; and, as primitive man cannot have had consciousness of his superiority over the animals, nor of his personality and his spiritual nature, he could not conceive these divine powers as personal, or spiritual, or anthropomorphic, but only as living beings.
Then from this primitive naturism sprang :—(1) anthropomorphic polytheism, which is decidedly an advance on mythopoeic naturism, as it brings the personal gods into relation with the moral life of man, but at the same time has its drawback since it attributes all human passions, faults, and sins to the gods; (2) spiritism (animism), combined with a primitive idolatry, fetichism, each of them not an advance but rather a depravation of religion, caused by the decadence of civilization, which inevitably followed the dispersion and isolation of tribes previously united; (3) henotheism, not the henotheism of Max Müller, or of Hartmann, or of Asmus, but a practical henotheism, i.e., the adoration of one God above others as the specific tribal god or as the lord over a particular people, a national or relative monotheism, like that of the ancient Israelites, the worship of an absolute sovereign who exacts passive obedience. This practical monotheism is totally different from the theoretical monotheism, to which the Aryans, with their monistic speculative idea of the godhead, are much nearer.
Passing by the primitive naturism, which is only a matter of speculation, we are bound to admit the real existence of the other three classes specified by Pfleiderer. Only the order in which they are arranged must be changed. For, if spiritism or animism sprang from a primitive not yet animistic naturism, at the same time with, though under different circumstances from, anthropomorphic polytheism and henotheism, how then shall we explain so many traces and remains of a previous animistic belief in each of the latter religious developments 1 They too must have gone through an animistic stage. And, on the other hand, some traces even of anthropomorphic mythology are not totally wanting in the animistic religions of uncivilized tribes and barbarous nations,—though, of course, in this mythology manlike beings still stand on the same level as, if not much lower than, those having the shape of animals.
The different stages of religious development have been characterized by C. P. Tiele (Outlines of the History of
Religion, § 3) as follows :—(a) a period in which animism generally prevailed, still represented by the so-called nature religions (in the narrower sense), or rather by the polydae-monistic magical tribal religions; (b) polytheistic national religions resting on a traditional doctrine ; (c) nomistic (or, as Prof. Carlo Puini proposes to call them, nomothetic) religions, or religious communities founded on a law or sacred writing and subduing polytheism more or less completely by pantheism or monotheism; (d) universal or world-religions, which start from principles and maxims. Though in general maintaining this division, at least for practical use, if we wish to draw up a morphological classification of religions, we shall have to modify and to complete it, and to arrange the different stages under the two principal categories of nature religions and ethical religions.
Nature Religions.—1. To the philosophy of religion we leave the solution of the difficult problem,—What may have been the state of religion before the oldest religion known to us sprang into being, and even before that animistic stage of development which we know only by its survivals in the higher and its ruins in the still existing lower religions'? Certain it is that the oldest religions must have contained the germs of all the later growth, and, though perhaps more thoroughly naturistic than the most naturistic now known, must have shown some faint traces at least of awakening moral feelings. Man, we think, in that primitive stage, must have regarded the natural phenomena on which his life and welfare depend as living beings, endowed with superhuman magical power; and his imagination, as yet uncontrolled by observation and reasoning, must frequently have given them the shape of frightful animals, monsters, portentous mythical beings, some of which still survive in the later mythologies. Perhaps the best name for this first stage of religious development might be the “polyzoic” stage.
2.    The following naturistic stages are to be classified under three distinct heads :—(a) polydaemonistic magical religions under the influence of animism; (b) purified magical religions, in which animistic ideas still play a prominent part, but which have grown up to a therian-thropic polytheism; (c) religions in which the powers of nature are worshipped as manlike though superhuman and semi-ethical beings, or anthropomorphic polytheism.
3.    Animism, which exercises a prominent influence on the religions of the first stage (a) mentioned above, is a system by which man, having become conscious of the superiority of the spirit over the body and of its relative independence, tries to account for the phenomena of nature, which he, not having the slightest scientific knowledge either of nature or of mind, is unable to explain otherwise. It is not itself a religion, but a sort of primitive philosophy, which not only controls religion, but rules the whole life of man in the childhood of the world. All things living and moving, or startling him by something strange and extraordinary, and of which he does not know the natural causes, he ascribes to the working of mighty spirits, moving freely through earth and air, and, now of their own accord now under compulsion, taking up their abode either temporarily or permanently in some living or some lifeless object. Only the powerful among these spirits, “ those on which man feels himself dependent, and before which he stands in awe, acquire the rank of divine beings,” and either as invisible or as embodied spirits become objects of worship (spiritism and fetichism). As the principal characteristics of those religions we have to consider—(1) a confused and indeterminate polydaemonistic mythology, though some spirits, especially those directing heavenly phenomena, are held to be more powerful than the others, and the supreme spirit of heaven is generally the mightiest of
all; (2) an implicit belief in the power of magic, which accounts for the high veneration in which sorcerers and fetich-priests are held; (3) the predomination of fear over all other feelings, and the performance of religious acts mostly for selfish ends. For a somewhat more copious exposition of the character and the development of religions under the control of animism we must refer to Outlines of the History of Religion, §§ 7-17, and the works there cited.
4.    Purified magical religions (b) are the connecting link between the polydannonistic magic religions (a) and the anthropomorphic polytheistic (c), and ought to be distinguished from each. The gods, though sometimes represented in a human form, more frequently in that of an animal, are really spiritual beings, embodying themselves in all kinds of things, but principally in animals. Most images of the gods are either human bodies with heads of animals or the bodies of animals with human heads. It is therefore we call these religions therianthropic. The worship of animals is one of the principal characteristics of most of them. In a subsequent stage, though surviving sporadically, it is much more restricted. The same may be said of the widespread worship paid to the souls of the departed, which is one of the most important constituent elements of the religions in this stage of development, though it survives in the next stage as well. It is frequently combined, as, e.g., in Egypt, with an elaborate eschatology. Magic and sorcery, though forbidden and even entailing prosecution if exercised by private sorcerers, are still held in high esteem when in the hands of the lawful priests. They are now organized as a traditional ritual and gradually developed into a boundless mysticism. Some of the ancient nature myths have already become legends and supposed primeval history. As might be expected, some of the religions belonging to the therianthropic stage stand nearer to the primitive animism, whilst others draw very nigh to the anthropomorphic stage; and so it would seem that we ought to make a. distinction between such therianthropic religions as belong to federations and such as belong to united empires—let us say, the unorganized and the organized. In the latter there is a strong tendency to monotheism and a kind of theocracy, the king being regarded as the living representative of the supreme deity, both of which characteristics are not so prominent in the former.
5.    In the anthropomorphic polytheism of the highest nature religions (c) there are, as in all subsequent stages, many survivals of what was common in the preceding, but so far as this could be done they have been adapted to the new system and disguised under new names or by means of new explanations. We call this polytheism anthropomorphic because the gods are now all of them superhuman but manlike beings, lords over the powers of nature and reigning over its departments, workers of good and of evil. As manlike beings they show more ethical tendencies and attributes than those of the previous periods. But, being indeed the old nature gods themselves, only remodelled and humanized, and their myths being originally fantastic and even animistic descriptions of natural phenomena, represented as wars and wooings, quarrels and revelries, robberies and tricks of the giant powers of nature, their mythology is full of disgusting narratives, and they are frequently represented as indulging the lowest passions and performing the most degrading acts. Pious poets and grave philosophers felt shocked by such myths, and either tried to mend them or boldly denied them; but they constituted nevertheless the faith of the majority till the fall of nature religion. Only, though essentially nature myths and still felt to be so, they are now no longer considered as an explanation of ever-returning phenomena, but, in accordance with the manlike character of the gods, as a kind of divine history, nay, are worked out into what may be called an imposing epic, beginning with the origin of life and ending only with the fall of the present cosmic economy. The gods themselves are no longer represented as animals or trees or stones; these have now become their symbols and attributes, and are only looked upon as being sacred to them. Of the power they possessed, in their old quality of spirits, to assume all shapes at will the myths of their metamorphoses still bear witness, myths now told by elegant poets for the amusement of their readers, but despised by serious philosophers. The real therianthropic beings of the old mythology, monsters like centaurs, harpies, fauns, satyrs, and others which could not be banished from ancient lore, now represent a lower order and are suffered to act only as followers or ministers or even as enemies of the gods. Not one of the religions in the polytheistic stage was able to elevate itself to the purely ethical standpoint; but, as moral consciousness went on increasing, deeper and more ethical religious ideas gathered round the persons of the most humane gods, the beloved son or daughter of the supreme deity, and gave rise to purer modes of worship which seemed to be forebodings of a time to come.
Ethical Religions.—1. With regard to the ethical religions the question has been mooted—and a rather puzzling question it is—What right have we to divide them into nomistic or nomothetic communities, founded on a law or Holy Scripture, and universal or world religions, which start from principles and maxims, the latter being only three—Buddhism, Christianity, and Mohammedanism ? The division has been adopted, among others by Prof. Kuenen, in his Ilibbert Lectures, though with the important restriction that Islam, as being essentially particularistic, ought to be excluded from the class of univer-salistic religions. In an interesting paper (in the Leyden I'heol. Tijdschrift, 1885, No. 1) Prof. Bauwenhoff rejects the whole class and particularly disapproves of the term “ world religions,” for which he substitutes that of “ world churches.” The question deserves to be discussed thoroughly, but for that this is not the place. Here we can only state the results to which a conscientious review of our own opinion and an impartial consideration of our opponents’ arguments have led us.
2.    We now think that the term “ world religions ” must be sacrificed, though indeed “ world churches ” would do no better, perhaps even worse. Without serving longer to determine the character of certain religions, the term “ world religions ” might still be retained for practical use, to distinguish the three religions which have found their way to different races and peoples and all of which profess the intention to conquer the world, from such communities as are generally limited to a single race or nation, and, where they have extended farther, have done so only in the train of, and in connexion with, a superior civilization. Strictly speaking, there can be no more than one universal or world religion, and if one of the existing religions is so potentially it has not yet reached its goal. This is a matter of belief which lies beyond the limits of scientific classification.
3.    Still there is a real difference between two at least of the three above named, which are still contending with one another for supremacy over the nations of the globe, and the other religious communities which no longer try to make proselytes—between Buddhism and Christianity on the one hand, and Confucianism, Brahmanism, Jainism, Mazdaism, and Judaism on the other. And this difference, which ought to be maintained, is indeed one of principle, not of fact only. If the latter, after having been adopted by a nation, have remained stationary for centuries and
even are continuously fading away, while the former now embrace many millions of adherents belonging to various nations and races, and ever go on increasing more or less rapidly, this cannot be due to some fortuitous or external circumstances only, but must have its principal cause in the very nature of each sort of religions.
4. When we call the one particularistic the others universalistic (not universal), the one national the other human, when we describe the one as bound to special doctrines and rites, the others, though equally embodying themselves in doctrines and rites wherever they wr ere organized into churches or state religions, as nevertheless really free from them and starting from principles and maxims, we possibly use words apt to be misunderstood and perhaps wanting some qualification, but the meaning of them on the whole is sufficiently clear. In calling nomistic religions, like Judaism and Mazdaism, particularistic or national, we do not mean to say that they are exclusive in character and that they have not tried to spread beyond the boundaries of the race and the nation to which they belonged originally. They have done so indeed; they hoped to extend their dominion, but they succeeded only where they could impose the nationality or the civilization with which they had grown together, like the Chinese in Corea and Japan, or the Brahmans in several parts of India; and it is known that the proselytes of Judaism always ranked below the born sons of Abraham.
Now Buddhism, Islam, and. Christianity were neither national nor particularistic. All of them were the representatives of ideas surpassing so to say the national horizon; all of them had in view, not the special religious wants of the nation, but more general aspirations of the human heart and mind. Two of them, therefore, were rejected, after a shorter or longer struggle, by the peoples to which their founders belonged by birth; and it is a well-known fact that Mohammedanism, though founded by an Arab, took its fundamental ideas from Judaism and Christianity, and that not the Arabs, but foreign nations, especially the Persians, raised it to the high position which it would not have occupied in the world without them. The national form of the Buddhistic idea was Jainism, that of the Christian idea Ebionitism, and perhaps the Wahhabites may be considered as the national reformers of Mohammedanism ; and it is only natural that none of these sects found adherents except among the peoples in the midst of which they arose. Nor were Buddhism, Islam, and Christianity particularistic. Buddhism “looks for the man; the miseries of existence beset all alike, and its lawr is a law of grace for all.”—So too in its way does Islam; in the beginning it spreads by conquest, but the faithful of every nationality, whether converted by the force of arms or by the preaching of missionaries, acquire the same rights and dignity as the Arabs. The universalism of Christianity needs no proof. Here, however, the difference begins. We class these three religions under one head, because they resemble one another in so many respects, and because they differ from the other religious communities founded by individuals precisely in that in which they are mutually alike. But we are far from placing them on the same level. Islam, e.g., is not original, not a ripe fruit, but rather a wild offshoot of Judaism and Christianity. Buddhism, though the most widely spread, has never been victorious except where it had to contend with religions standing on no very high degree of development. For a short time it had a footing in Persian countries, but there its influence was neither deep nor durable, and in China it was not even able to overcome Confucianism and Taoism ; it seems to have been driven from India by Brahmanism, without being actually persecuted. Both Islam and Buddhism, if
not national, are only relatively universalistic, and show the one-sidedness, the one of the Semitic, the other of the Aryan race. The former represents an important religious idea—the absolute sovereignty of the one God, towards whom man, being nothing himself, has only one duty, that of tacit obedience; it exalts the divine, not combining it with, but opposing it to, the human, which it despises, and therefore neglects the development of ethics. Buddhism on the contrary neglects the divine, preaches the final salvation of man from the miseries of existence through the power of his own self-renunciation; and therefore, as it is atheistic in its origin, it very soon becomes infected by the most fantastic mythology and the most childish superstitions. If religion really is the synthesis of dependence and liberty, we might say that Islam represents the former, Buddhism the latter element only, while Christianity does full justice to both of them. Christianity, the pure and unalloyed at least, has fused dependence and liberty, the divine and the human, religion and ethics into an indivisible unity.
5. There are still some other points of difference. Thus, to mention one point only, Mohammedanism in its external features is little better than an extended Judaism. Spread over many countries, adopted by various nations differing in culture, speech, and race, nevertheless it has its holy language, its unvarying rites, its central sanctuary round which the pilgrims from every part of the Mohammedan world assemble every year. Not so with Buddhism and Christianity. If Christian crusaders tried to reconquer their Holy Land from the infidels, and in fact possessed it for a time, if mediaeval Buddhist pilgrims desired to see, and some Christian pilgrims even now visit, the places where the cradle of their faiths once stood, all this makes no longer an integral part of their worship, which is not necessarily bound to place or time. The divisions of Buddhism and Christianity are mutually much more independent than those of Mohammedanism. Still, though in this respect Buddhism comes nearer to Christianity, this alone preaches a worship in spirit and in truth; and in that which Rothe called its greatest excellence, in its variety, its changeableness, its power of adapting itself to the religious wants of various generations, peoples, and individuals, in a word, in its elasticity, which is the natural result of its purely spiritual character, Christianity ranks incommensurably high above both its rivals.@@1 But we cannot pursue this matter any further.
We now give the following sketch of a morphological classification of religions :—
I. Natuke Religions.
(a) Polydsemonistic Magical Religions under tlie control of Animism.
To this class belong the religions of the so-called savages or uncivilized peoples, but they are only degraded remnants of what they once must have been.
(b) Purified or organized Magical Religions.
Therianthropic Polytheism.
1. Unorganized.    2.    Organized.
Japanese Kami-no-madsu.    The semi-civilized religions of
The non-Aryan (Dravidian) reli- America : Maya, Natchez, gions of India, principally in Toltecs-Aztecs, Muyscas, Incas the Deccan.    in Peru.
Religion of the Finns and Ehsts. The ancient religion of the The old Arabic religions.    Chinese empire.
Old Pelasgic religion.    Ancient Babylonian (Chaldaean)
Old Italiote religions.    religion.
Etruscan religion before its ad- Religion of    Egypt.
mixture with Greek elements(?)
The old Slavonic religions.
@@@1 To prevent misconstruction, it is perhaps not superfluous to state that we are giving here neither a confession of faith nor an apology, but that we have here to treat Christianity simply as a subject of comparative study, from a scientific, not from a religious point of view.
(c) Worship of manlike but superhuman ami semi-ethical beings.
Anthropomorphic Polytheism.
The ancient Vaidic religion (India).
The pre-Zarathustrian Iranic religion (Dactria, Media, Persia).
The younger Babylonian and Assyrian religion.
The religions of the other civilized Semites (Phoenicia, Canaan, Arannea, Sabseans in South Arabia).
The Celtic, Germanic, Hellenic, and Gneco-Roman religions.
II. Ethical Religions.
(a) National Nomistic (Nomothetic) religious communities.
Taoism and Confucianism in China.
Brahmanism, with its various ancient and modern sects.
Jainism and primitive Buddhism.
Mazdaism (Zarathustriauism), with its sects.
Mosaism.
Judaism.
(b) Universalistic religious communities.
Islam, Buddhism, Christianity.
We conclude with a few remarks on the history and spread of religions. Between the history of religions and that of religion in general there is no real difference. A history of religions must be something other and more than a collection of the histories of the principal religions, arranged after a chronological or an ethnological scheme. The connecting links and historical relations between them must be kept in view. It ought to be shown how every religion coming to the front on the stage of history is rooted in the past, has been fostered so to speak by one or more of its predecessors, and cannot be maintained without taking up and assimilating the still living elements of the old faith. Special attention must be paid to the spread and intermixture of religions and systems, myths and rites, the cause of so many changes, of thorough reforms as well as of corruption and decay. Thus, even undesignedly the history of religions exhibits the progress of the religious idea in the history of mankind.
The oldest historical documents, contemporaneous with the facts they record, are undoubtedly those of ancient Egypt aud Babylonia; perhaps the latter may in the end prove the more ancient of the two. Be this as it may, documentary history begins in western Asia and northeastern Africa. And it is remarkable that even in that remote past we find the religions both of ancient Babylonia and of Egypt in anything but a primitive state—remarkable, but only natural, as civilization must have reached a rather elevated standpoint to produce such written documents and works of art. Many centuries, at all events a long period, of religious evolution must have preceded the dawn of religious history. Even then and there, just as elsewhere, that which lies behind can only be conjectured, but conjecture may be raised to a high degree of probability by comparing the myths and rites surviving in the historical religions, though they really belong to a former state of development, with those still prevailing among uncivilized tribes. Eor several centuries these two religions, whatever may have been their genealogical relation, were developed independently, and the task of the historian is, by studying the most ancient records, to give a notion of their earliest state and to point out the faint traces of their internal changes which are still extant. There are some vague allusions to an early Babylonian conquest of western Asia, which might account for the agreement of some ancient modes of worship in the Western countries with those of Babylonia; but before the XYIIIth Dynasty of Egypt (15th or 16th century b.c.) the empires on the banks of the Euphrates and Tigris and that on the banks of the Nile seem not yet to have come into contact. From that time, at least during the rule of the XIXth Dynasty, not a few Semitic deities were admitted into the Egyptian pantheon. In a well-known hymn the victorious Egyptian king is compared to the
Semitic Ba'al as well as to the national god Mentu. On the other hand, but much later, some Egyptian religious emblems find their way into Assyria, and several Egyptian gods with Egyptian modes of worship into Phoenicia. Assyrian religion, bping an early offshoot of the Babylonian, and with the lapse of time more and more imbued with younger Babylonian elements, spreads westwards with the extension of the Assyrian empire, penetrates into Asia Minor and Syria, and finds followers even among the kings of Judah. But there the prophets, true to their national god Jahveh, and reforming his worship on purely ethical principles, wrestle with unbending perseverance against those foreign idolatrous customs and lay the foundations of that monotheistic community which survives the Babylonian exile, and, having been organized as Judaism, becomes the cradle of Christianity.
Did space permit we would fain pursue the rapid historical sketch, which tends to show how even in ancient times there was a continuous interchange of ideas and rites between the leading religions, those even which are commonly considered as being purely national—that is, so entirely fused with the social and political life of a nation that they seem unfit for adoption by peoples widely different. But a general survey of the history of religions cannot be given here. All that can be done is to indicate in a few words its further course, not without hinting that the same interchange as we have observed in western Asia and Egypt is to be found everywhere.
In eastern Asia the dominating religions are those of China and of India. They too have been developed independently, each radiating from its centre, China proper and Hindustan, so far as either the vast Chinese empire or the Aryan dominion over the Indian peninsula extended. The Chinese civilization seems to be much older than the Indian. But the sources from which a knowledge of the ancient Chinese religion might be drawn have come down to us thoroughly revised and expurgated either by Confucius himself or by some of his followers. The ancient religious literature of India is very extensive, and in it three or four stages of religious thought may without difficulty be found; but the real ancient history of Indian religion is not to be gathered from it. Neither Chinese nor Indian religions have exercised any influence on the progress of religion in the west of Asia or in Europe. They form a world apart. The Chinese religion was adopted by some Mongolian tribes and was introduced into Corea and Japan; Indian settlers, Vaishnavas, Qaivas, or Bauddhas, carried Indian thought and Indian worship with them to some parts of Further India and of the Indian archipelago, but this happened in relatively recent times. For ages and ages they lived quite isolated and self-sufficient—the Chinese either with Lao-tsze seeking the veritable Tao in the highest ideal of absolute isolation, or with Confucius amiably moralizing on the duties of “the perfect man”; the Indian dreaming his monotonous and fantastic dreams and longing for absorption in the eternal Brahm; neither of them suspecting that without them, among what they would have called Western barbarians if they had known of their existence, the world’s history was going on as a mighty stream of which they did not even hear the distant roar. It was not until Darius the son of Hystaspes, but chiefly Alexander the Great, had opened the gates of India to Western civilization that an Indian sovereign, converted to Buddhism, could think of benefiting foreign nations by the message of salvation from the miseries of existence, and that Buddhist missionaries went ouf to nearly every part of Asia.
Meanwhile Medo-Persian supremacy had supplanted the Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian, and with it the Zarathus-trian religion (Mazdaism) had come in contact with those
of western Asia. This too had its distinct place in the general history of religion. For though it seems not to have spread much farther than the Iranian languages, and the attempts of Mazdayagnan missionaries to convert certain Tartar or Mongolish tribes were not crowned with extraordinary success, its tenets deeply influenced the post-exilian angelology and demonology of the Jews, and through it the belief on these subjects current among mediaeval Christians. Moreover, not indeed the whole system, but still some of its semi-spurious offshoots, remnants of the Old East Aryan mythology, neglected by the Zarathustrian reformers, but afterwards revived and mixed up with Semitic elements, the worship of Mithra and Amdiita, wandered from Asia Minor through Greece and Italy to Germany and found adherents everywhere.
The final and, if we except that of Mosaism, the most interesting chapter of the ancient history of religions is that which narrates the growth, the transformations and vicissitudes, the decline and corruption of the worship belonging to Greece and Rome. Its importance to general history needs no exposition. But its real purport is in the main not realized, or at least misunderstood. It is indeed the history of the spread of that rich and composite mythological system which is called Hellenic religion over the whole civilized world of Europe and part of Asia and Africa, and of the total transformation of the ancient Roman religion by its influence. But, studied in the true historical, that is, genetic and comparative, spirit— not with the jealous narrow-mindedness of the old classical school, whose idol, the self-sufficient and self-educated Greek, has already been broken to pieces, nor with the one-sidedness of some comparative mythologists, who have substituted the self-sufficient Aryan for that imaginary Greek—Hellenic religion appears to be rooted, not only in the old national worship, but also, and even deeper, in the religions of some Eastern peoples, as is the case with Hellenic art and all the other branches of that splendid civilization. It would never have risen so high above the level of old Pelasgic faith and worship, never have spread over so wide an area, never have reigned with ever increasing authority in Etruria and in Rome, had not the deeper religious ideas of Semitic and other Eastern nations, which prevailed in the Phoenician colonies on the islands and coasts of the Mediterranean, and above all in that focus of all kinds of worship, Asia Minor, become assimilated with it, and—for this too must be acknowledged— had it not after all impressed those ideas with the stamp of Aryan fancy and Hellenic taste, the stamp of its own genius. The great stream of religious development which had its sources in Egypt, in Babylon, and in Iran, and many less important affluents, finishes its course in the Graeco-Roman religion. With this the old world dies away. But then the preaching of the gospel had already laid the foundations of a new and higher world of religious life, which no more belongs to ancient history.
Modern history of religions is chiefly the history of Buddhism, Christianity, and Islam, and of their wrestling with the ancient faiths and primitive modes of worship, which slowly fade away before their encroachments, and which, where they still survive in some parts of the world and do not reform themselves after the model of the dominant religion, draw nearer and nearer to extinction.
But the subject is too vast to be treated of in detail here. It has been our object only to show, even for the ancient history of religions, the continuity and coherence which nobody will deny with regard to the modern. In both ancient and modern times, religions spread (1) by the influence of superior civilization, (2) by conquest, (3) by colonization or commerce, (4) by missions. Examples are too numerous and too well known to require mention here.
Literature.—The numerous monographs on special religions, as well as treatises on the philosophy of religion, on mythology, on comparative mythology even, must be excluded from this notice. Only the most important collections of historical monographs, and those philosophical works which are not purely or principally speculative, but are based on the comparative study of the religions themselves, will be mentioned.
For the so-called science of religion in general see Benjamin Constant, De la Religion considérée dans sa source, ses formes, et ses développements, 5 vols., Paris, 1824-31; E. Spiess, De religio-num indagationis comparatives vi ac dignitate theologica, Jena, 1871;
F.    Max Müller, Chips from a German Workshop, vol. i., London, 1867; Id., Introduction to the Science of Religion, London, 1873; Emile Burnouf, La Science des Religions, 4th ed., Paris, 1885; Daniel G. Brinton, The Religious Sentiment, its Source and Aim, New York, 1876 ; A. Réville, Prolégomènes de VHistoire des Religions, Paris, 1881 ; W. D. Whitney, “On the so-called Science of Religion,” in the Princeton Review ; Id., Oriental and Linguistic Studies, 1st and 2d series, New York, 1873-74 ; L. Vèzes, De la Religion et des Religions, Montauban, s.a.
A more or less complete history of religions (narrative and descriptive) wr as attempted by Meiners, Allg. kritische Geschichte der Religionen, 2 vols., Hanover, 1806-7 ; A. v. Cölln, Lehrbuch der vorchristl. Religionsgeschichte, Lemgo, 1855; J. H. Schölten, Geschie-denis der godsdienst en wijsbcgeerte, 3d ed., Leyden, 1863; J. Gardner, The Religions of the World, London, 1872; C. P. Tide, Outlines of the History of Religion to the spread of the Universal Religions, transi. byJ. E. Carpenter, London, 1877 (a totally re-written Dutch edition is in preparation). The history of the principal religions of the world is described in the series of monographs published at Haarlem entitled De Voornaamstc Godsdiensten ( Islamism, by Dozy, 1863; Pdrsism, by Tiele, 1864; Buddhism, by Kern, 1883-84; Greek Religion, by Van Oordt, 1864; Norse Religion, by Meyboom, 1868; Israel, 2 vols., by Kuenen, 1869-70; Roman Catholicism, by Pierson, 4 vols., 1868-74; Protestantism, by Rauwenhoff, 2 vols., 1865-71). See, too, C. P. Tiele, Hist, comparée des religions de l’Égypte et des peuples Sémitiques, trans. by G. Collins, Paris, 1882; A. Réville, Les religions des peuples non-civilisés, Paris, 1883 ; Id., Les religions du Mexique, de l’Amér. centrale, et du Pérou, Paris, 1885 (compare the Hibbert Lectures for 1884). Of another series, under the title Oriental Religions and their relation to Universal Religion, by Samuel Johnson, three volumes only are published {India, 2d ed., London, 1873; China, Boston, 1877; Persia, 1885). P. D. Chantepie do la Saussaye published four popular sketches of the religions of Confucius, Lao-tsze, Zarathustra, and Buddha, but with copious notes and references, Utrecht, 1883. Equally popular is
G.    Rawlinson’s Religions of the Ancient World, London, s.a.
To the comparative study of religions and to the philosophy of the history of religions belong 0. Pfleiderer, Die Religion, ihr Wesen und ihre Geschichte, Berlin, 1869 ; Id., Religionsphilosophie auf geschichtlicher Grundlage, 1878 (2d ed. revised and enlarged, in 2 vols., 1883-84); E. Renan, Etudes d'histoire religieuse, 2d ed., Paris, 1857 ; Jas. Freemau Clarke, Ten Great Religions, an Essay in Comparative Theology, Boston, 1871 (called by Prof. Whitney an industrious collector and an impartial reporter) ; E· F. Langhans, Das Christenthum und seine Missio7i im Lichte der Weltgeschichte, Zurich, 1875 ; A. M. Fairbairn, Studies in the Philosophy of Religion and History, 1876; Chas. Newton Scott, The Foregleams of Christianity, London, 1877 ; J. Stuart Blackie, The Natural History of Atheism, London, 1877 ; C. Puini, Saggi di storia della Religione, Florence, 1882 ; E. von Hartmann, Das relig. Bewusstsein der Menschheit im Stufengange seiner Entwickelung, Berlin, 1882 ; Jul. Happel, Das Chrislcnthum und die heutige vergleichende Religionsgeschichte, Leipsic, 1882. See, too, the Hibbert Lectures of F. Max Müller, 1878, and of A. Kuenen, National Religions and Universal Religions, 1882. The connexion between religion on the one side and state and society on the other is discussed by J. C. Bliintsclili, Altasiatische Gottes- und Weltideen, Nördlingen, 1866; C. Twesten, Die religiös., polit.׳, und socialen Ideen der asiat. Culturvölker und der Aegypter, 2 vols., Berlin, 1872 (ed. by M. Lazarus) ; Gilliot, Études histor. et c. it. sur les religions et institutions comparées, Paris, 1883. E. Wippermann’s Altorient. Religionsstaaten, Marburg, 1851, is now antiquated.
The views of the present writer on various subjects relating to the science of religion have been expounded in several volumes of the Theol. Tijdschrift and De Gids. Only a few of these papers have been translated into German or French. See, e.g., Revue politique et littéraire, 12th August 1876 and 12th January 1878. In the Tlicol. Tijdschrift are to be found some articles on cognate subjects by Profs. Kuenen and Rauwenhoff and by Dr A. Bruining. Valuable contributions to the history of religions are given by the Revue de l'Histoire des Religions, edited by Vernes, 1880-84, and by Jean Réville, 1885. Prof. Max Müller is rendering an important service to the comparative study of religions by his collection of translations entitled Sacred Books of the East, of which some twenty-four volumes have appeared, and which is still in course of publication.    (C. P. T. )
REMAINDER, REVERSION. In the view of English law a remainder or reversion is classed either as an incorporeal hereditament or, with greater correctness, as an estate in expectancy (see Real Estate). That is to say, it is a ¡)resent interest subject to an existing estate in possession called the particular estate, which must determine before the estate in expectancy can become an estate in possession. A remainder or reversion is in strictness confined to real estate, whether legal or equitable, though a similar interest may exist in personalty. The particular estate and the remainder or reversion together make up the whole estate over which the granter has power of disposition.@@1 Accordingly a remainder or reversion limited on an estate in fee simple is void. The difference between a remainder and a reversion, stated as simply as possible, is that the latter is that undisposed-of part of the estate which after the determination of the particular estate will fall into the possession of the original grantor or his representative, while a remainder is that part of the estate which under the same circumstances will fall into the possession of a person other than the original grantor or his representative. A reversion in fact is a special instance of a remainder, distinguishable from it in two important respects :—(1) a reversion arises by operation of law on every grant of an estate where the whole interest is not parted with, whereas a remainder is created by express words ; (2) tenure exists between the reversioner and the tenant of the particular estate, but not between the latter and the remainderman. Accordingly rent service is said to be an incident of a reversion but not of a remainder, and a reversioner could distrain for it at common law (see Rent). A reversion may be limited upon any number of remainders, each of them as it falls into possession becoming itself a particular estate. Thus A may grant an estate for life or for years to B, with remainder to C, with remainder to D, with a reversion or ultimate remainder to himself. A remainder or reversion may be alienated either by deed or by will. A conveyance by the tenant of a particular estate to the remainderman or reversioner is called a surrender; a conveyance by the remainderman or reversioner to the tenant is a release.
Remainder.—Remainders are either vested or contingent. “An estate is vested in interest when there is a present fixed right of future enjoyment. An estate is contingent when a right of enjoyment is to accrue on an event which is dubious and uncertain. A contingent remainder is a remainder limited so as to depend on an event or condition which may never happen or be performed, or which may not happen or he performed till after the determination of the preceding estate ” (Fearne, Contingent Remainders, 2, 3). Contingent remainders are of two kinds, those limited to uncertain persons and those limited on uncertain events. A grant by A to B for life, followed by a remainder in fee to the heir of C is an example of a contingent remainder.@@2 Until the death of C he can have no heir. If C die during the lifetime of B, the contingent remainder of his heir becomes vested; if C survive B, the remainder is at common law destroyed owing to the determination of the particular estate, for every remainder must have a particular estate to support it. In the case of a contingent remainder, it must become vested during the continuance of the particular estate or at the instant of its determination. This rule of law no doubt arose from the disfavour shown by the law to contingent remainders on their first introduction. They were not firmly established even when Littleton wrote in the reign of Edward IV. (see Williams, Real Property, pt. ii. ch. ii.). The inconveniences resulting from this liability of contingent remainders to destruction were formerly overcome by the device of appointing trustees to preserve contingent remainders at law. Equitable contingent remainders, it should be noticed, were indestructible, for they were supported by the legal estate. In recent times the matter has been dealt with by Act of Parliament. By 8 & 9 Viet. c. 106, § 8, a contingent remainder is rendered capable of taking effect notwithstanding the determination by forfeiture, surrender, or merger of any preceding estate of freehold in the same manner as if such
determination had not happened. The case of determination by any other means is met by 40 & 41 Viet. c. 33. The Act provides that a contingent remainder which would have been valid as a springing or shifting use or executory devise or other limitation had it not had a sufficient estate to sup!!ort it as a contingent remainder is, in the event of the particular estate determining before the contingent remainder vests, to be capable of taking effect as though the contingent remainder had originally been created as a springing or shifting use or executory devise or other executory limitation. It will accordingly only be good if the springing use, kc. (for which see Trust), would be good. If the springing use be void as a breach of the rule against perpetuities (see Real Estate), the remainder will likewise be void. It may be noticed that, apart from this Act, there is some uncertainty as to the application of the rule against perpetuities to remainders. The better opinion is that it applies to equitable remainders and to legal remainders expectant upon an estate for life limited to an unborn person. In the latter case the rule as applied to contingent remainders is somewhat different from that affecting executory interests. The period is different, the remainder allowing the tying up of property for a longer time than the executory interest. There is also the further difference that the rule dpes not affect a contingent remainder if it become vested befdre the determination of the particular estate. An executory interest is void if it may transgress the rule, even though it do not actually do so. The subject of remainders would not be complete without a reference to the famous rule in “Shelley’s Case ” (1 Coke’s Reports, 93 b). The rule is that when the ancestor by any gift or conveyance takes an estate of freehold, and in the same gift or conveyance an estate is limited, either mediately or immediately, to his heirs or the heirs of his body, in such a case the word “ heirs ” is a word of limitation and not of purchase ; that is to say, the estate of the ancestor is not a life or other freehold estate with remainder to the heirs or heirs of the body, but an estate in fee or an estate tail according to circumstances. The rule is a highly technical one, and has led to much litigation and in many cases without a doubt to the defeat of a testator’s intentions. It is said to have had its origin in the wish of the law to preserve to the lords their right of wardship, which would have been ousted by the heir taking as purchaser and not as successor.
The State laws of the United States affecting remainders will be found in Washburn, Real Property, vol. ii. bk. ii. ch. iv. § 7. As a general rule contingent remainders have been rendered of little practical importance by enactments that they shall take effect as executory devises or shall not determine on determination of the particular estate. The rule in “Shelley’s Case” is the common law where it is not repealed by statute. The prevailing spirit of legislation in the States is unfavourable to its continuance.
Reversion.—Unlike remainders, all reversions are present or vested estates. The law of reversion, like that of remainder, has been considerably modified by statute. It was formerly considered that on the grant of the reversion the tenant should have the opportunity of objecting to the substitution of a new landlord. It was therefore necessary that he should attorn tenant to the purchaser. Without such attornment the grant was void, unless indeed attornment were compelled by levying a fine. The necessity of attornment was abolished by 4 & 5 Anne c. 16. Its only use at present seems to be in the case of mortgage. A mortgagor in possession sometimes attorns tenant to the mortgagee in order that the latter may treat him as his tenant and distrain for his interest as rent. The legal view that rent was incident to the reversion led at common law to a destruction of the rent by destruction of the reversion. This would of course chiefly happen in the case of an under-tenant and his immediate reversioner, if the intermediate became merged in the superior reversion. To obviate this difficulty it was provided by 8 & 9 Yict. c. 106, § 9, that, on surrender or merger of a reversion expectant on a lease, the rights under it should subsist to the reversion conferring the next vested right. The question as to what covenants run with the reversion is one of the most difficult in law. The rule of common law seems to have been that covenants ran with the land but not with the reversion, that is to say, the benefit of them survived to a new tenant but not to a new landlord. The effect of the Act of 32 Hen. VIII. c. 34, and of the Conveyancing Act, 1881 (44 & 45 Viet. c. 41, §§ 10, 11, «58), has been to annex to the reversion as a general rule the benefit of the rent and the lessee’s covenants and the burden of the lessor’s covenants. Merely collateral covenants, however, do not run with the reversion, but are regarded as personal contracts between lessor and lessee. At common law on the severance of a reversion a grantee of part of the reversion could not take advantage of any condition for re-entry, on the ground that the condition was entire and not severable. This doctrine was abolished by one of Lord St Leonard’s Acts in 1859. The Conveyancing Act, 1881, § 12, now provides in wider terms than those of the Act of 1859 that on severance of the reversion every condition capable of apportionment is to be apportioned. In order to guard against fraudulent concealment of the death of a cestui qua
@@@1    Compare the life-rent and fee of Scotch law.
@@@2    A contingent remainder amounting to a freehold cannot be limited on a particular estate less than a freehold.
vie, or person for whose life any lands are held by another, it was provided by 6 Anne c. 18 that on application to the Court of Chancery by the person entitled in remainder, reversion, or expectancy, the cestui que vie should be produced to the court or its commissioners, or in default should be taken to be dead. The purchase of a reversionary interest might formerly have been set aside in a court of equity on the ground of inadequacy of price. This rule of equity no longer exists. It was enacted by 31 Viet. c. 4 (which extends to the United Kingdom) that no purchase made bona fide of a reversionary interest in real or personal estate shall be set aside merely on the ground of under-value. The Act does not affect those cases in which the courts relieve against such purchases on the ground of fraud or duress—the cases, for instance, of exorbitant bargains made by money-lenders with expectant heirs. In Scotland reversion is generally used in a sense approaching that of the equity of redemption of English law. A reversion is either legal, as in an adjudication, or conventional, as in a wadset. Reversions are registered under the system established by the Act 1617 c. 16 (see Registration).
In the United States the Act of 32 Hen. VIII. c. 34 “is held to be in force in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Illinois, and Connecticut, but was never in force in New York till re-enacted” (Washburn, Real Property, vol. i. 432).    (J. W+.)
REMBRANDT (1607-1669). Rembrandt Harmens van Rijn, tlie chief of the Dutch school of painting and one of the greatest painters the world has seen, was born in Leyden on the 15th July 1607.@@1 It is only within the past thirty years that we have come to know anything of the real history of the man. Up to that time we had but a tissue of fables connected with his name and representing him as ignorant, boorish, and avaricious. These fictions, resting on the loose assertions of Houbraken (JDe Groote Schouburgh, 1718), have been cleared away by the untiring researches of Scheltema and other Dutchmen, notably by C. Vosmaer, whose elaborate work (Rembrandt, set Vie et ses (Euvres, 1868, 2d ed. 1877) will remain as the basis of our knowledge of the man and of the chronological development of the artist.@@2     Rembrandt’s high position in European art
rests on the originality of his mind, the power of his imagination, his profound sympathy with his subjects, the boldness of his system of light and shade, the thoroughness of his modelling, his subtle colour, and above all on the intense humanity of the man. He was great in conception and in execution, a poet as well as a painter, an idealist and also a realist; and this rare union is the secret of his power. From his dramatic action and mastery of expression Rembrandt has been well called “ the Shakespeare of Holland.” To understand aright his position in art, we must consider rapidly his surroundings and note the influences which affected him; we shall thus find what he had in common with his time and understand better how far he was really a new power, an original genius.
It must be borne in mind that in the beginning of the 17tli century Holland had risen to great power. Though not yet formally free from the Spanish yoke, she had broken the fetters by the heroic efforts of the former generation, and had entered on her grand career of national enterprise. Science and literature flourished in her universities, poetry and the stage were favoured by her citizens, and art found a home not only in the capital but in the provincial towns. It was a time also of new ideas. Old conventional forms in religion, philosophy, and art had fallen away, and liberty was inspiring new conceptions. It is with those of art that we have to deal. Here there were no church influences at work to fetter the painter in the choice and treatment of his subject, no academies to prescribe rules.
Left to himself, therefore, the artist painted the life of the people among whom he lived and the subjects which interested them. It was thus a living history that he painted,—scenes from the everyday life and amusements of the people, often mean and vulgar it must be confessed, the civic rulers, the regents of the hospitals and the heads of the guilds, and the civic guards who defended their towns. So also with the religious pictures which were produced under the influence of these environments. The dogmas and legends of the Church of Rome were no longer of interest to such a nation ; but the Bible was read and studied with avidity, and from its page the artist drew directly the scenes of the simple narrative. The Old and New Testaments and the Apocrypha were the sources from which, without any interference of Jesuit inquisitors, he drew his inspiration. This change had been coming on steadily since the Reformation, a change that implied a growing freedom from trammels and a larger and more human view of the subjects treated. Perhaps the earliest trace of this new aspect of Bible story is to be found in the pictures painted in Rome about the beginning of the 17 th century by Adam Elsheimer of Frankfort, who had undoubtedly a great influence on the Dutch painters studying in Italy. These in their turn carried back to Holland the simplicity and the picturesque effect which they found in Elsheimer’s work. Among these, the precursors of Rembrandt, may be mentioned Moeyaert, Ravesteyn, Lastman, Pinas, Honthorst, and Bramer. Influenced doubtless by these painters, Rembrandt determined to work out his own ideas of art on Dutch soil, resisting apparently every inducement to visit Italy. Though an admirer of the great Italian masters, he yet maintained his own individuality in the most marked manner. It is strange that we have no evidence that he ever met his greatest Dutch rival, the brillant Frans Hals, his senior by some fifteen years.
Rembrandt was born in the house No. 3 Weddesteg, on the rampart at Leyden overlooking the Rhine. The house belonged to his father Gerrit Harmen van Rijn, a well-to-do miller, and still exists, but the windmill is no more. He was the fourth son, and, as the older boys had been sent to trade, his parents resolved that he should enter a learned profession. With this view he was sent to the High School at Leyden; but the boy soon manifested his dislike of the prospect and determined to be a painter. Accordingly he was placed for three years under Swanenburch, a connexion of the Van Rijn family. This master was a painter of no great merit, but he enjoyed some reputation from his having studied in Italy. His next master was Lastman of Amsterdam, a painter of very considerable power. In Lastman’s works we can trace the germs of the colour and sentiment of his greater pupil, though his direct influence cannot have been great, as it is said by Orlers that Rembrandt remained with him only six months, after which time he returned to Leyden, about 1623. During the early years of his life at Leyden Rembrandt seems to have devoted himself entirely to studies, painting and etching the people around him, the beggars and cripples, every picturesque face and form he could get hold of. Life, character, and above all light were the aims of these studies. His mother was a frequent model, and we can trace in her features the strong likeness to her son, especially in the portraits of himself at an advanced age. So far as we know there is no likeness of his father, who died about 1632. The last portrait of his mother is that of the Belvidere Gallery of Vienna, painted the year before her death in 1640. One of his sisters also frequently sat to him, and Bode suggests that she must have accompanied him to Amsterdam and kept house for him till he married. This conjecture rests
@@@1    This is now generally accepted as the year of his birth, though some hold it should be 1606 or 1608.
@@@2    Vosmaer’s first volume, on the precursors and apprenticeship of Rembrandt, was published in 1863. New light has since been thrown on important points by Dr Bode (Holländische Malerei, 1883), De Roever, De Vries, and others.
on the number of portraits of the same young woman painted in the early years of his stay in Amsterdam and before he met his bride. Then, again, in the many portraits of himself painted in his early life we can see with what zeal he set himself to master every form of expression, now grave now gay, at one time with a smile at another with a frown,—how thoroughly he learned to model the human face not from the outside but from the inner man. Careful in detail and thorough in work, these studies were the foundation of his later triumphs. Dr Bode gives fifty as the number of the portraits of himself, most of them painted in youth and in old age, the times when he had leisure for such work.
Rembrandt’s earliest pictures Avere painted in the last four years of his stay at Leyden, from 1627 to 1631. Bode mentions about nine pictures as known to belong to these years, chiefly paintings of single figures, as St Paul in Prison and St Jerome; but now and then compositions of several, as Samson in Prison and Presentations in the Temple. The prevailing tone of all these pictures is a greenish-grey, the effect being somewhat cold and heavy. The gallery at Cassel gives us a typical example of his studies of the heads of old men, firm and hard in workmanship and full of detail, the effects of light and shade being carefully thought out. His work was now attracting the attention of the lovers of art in the great city of Amsterdam ; and, urged by their calls, he removed about 1631 to live and die there. His life lias few incidents and these only personal, for he lived among the simple burgher citizens, moving in an excellent circle of men of science, divines, poets, artists, and friends of art. At one bound he leaped into the position of the first portrait painter of the city, and received numerous commissions. During the early years of his residence there are at least forty known portraits from his hand, firm and solid in manner and staid in expression. It. has been remarked that the fantasy in which he indulged through life was reserved only for the portraits of himself and his immediate connexions. The excellent painter Thomas De Keyser was then in the height of his power, and his influence is to be traced in some of Rembrandt’s smaller portraits. Pupils also now flocked to his house in the Bloemgracht, among them Gerard Douw, who was nearly of his own age. The first important work executed by Rembrandt in Amsterdam is Simeon in the Temple, of the Hague Museum, a fine early example of his treatment of light and shade and of his subtle colour. The concentrated light falls on the principal figure, his favourite way of arresting attention, while the background is full of mystery. The surface is smooth and enamelled, and all the details are carefully wrought out, while the action of light on the mantle of Simeon shows how soon he had felt the magical effect of the play of colour. Between the small Simeon of 1631 and the life-sized Lesson in Anatomy of 1632 there is a great difference. In the latter we have the first of the great portrait subjects, —Tulp the anatomist, the early friend of Rembrandt, discoursing to his seven associates, who are ranged with eager heads round the foreshortened body. The subject was not new, for it had been treated in former years by the Mierevelds, A. Pietersen, and others, for the Hall of the Surgeons. But it was reserved for Rembrandt to make it a great picture by the grouping of the expressive portraits and by the completeness of the conception. The colour is quiet and the handling of the brush timid and precise, while the light and shade are somewhat harsh and abrupt. But it is a marvellous picture for a young man of twenty-five, and it is generally accepted as the first milestone in the career of the painter, and as marking a new departure.
In the forty long years of Rembrandt’s incessant activity
as an artist about seven hundred pictures are known to have come from his own hand. It is therefore clearly impossible within the space at our disposal to notice more than the prominent , works in their order. Besides the Pellicorne family portraits of 1632, we have the caligra-phist Coppenol of the Cassel Gallery, interesting in the first place as an early example of Rembrandt’s method of giving permanent interest to a portrait by converting it into a picture. He invests it with a sense of life by a momentary expression as Coppenol raises his head towards the spectator while he is mending a quill. The same motive is to be found in the Shipbuilder, 1633 (of Buckingham Palace), who looks up from his work with a sense of interruption at the approach of his , wife. But the worthy Coppenol, “the Phoenix of the Pen,” has another charm for us; he was one of Rembrandt’s earliest friends in his new abode and remained true to the end, being painted thrice and etched twice by the artist, the last of whose portrait etchings (1661) was the Coppenol of large size. The two small pictures of the Philosopher of the Louvre date from 1633, delicate in execution and full of mysterious effect. The year 1634 is especially remarkable as that of his marriage with Saskia van Ulenburgh, a beautiful, fair-haired Frisian maiden of good connexions. Till her death in 1642 she was the centre of his life and art, and lives for us in many a canvas as well as in her own portraits. On her the painter lavished his magical power, painting her as the Queen Artemisia or Bathsheba, and as the wife of Samson,—ahvays proud of her long fair locks, and covering her with pearls and gold as precious in their play of colour as those of the Indies. A joyous pair as we see them in the Dresden Gallery, Saskia sitting on his knee while he laughs gaily, or promenading together in a fine picture of 1636, or putting the last touches of ornament to her toilette, for thus Bode interprets the so-called Burgomaster Pancras and his Wife. These were his happy days when he painted himself in his exuberant fantasy, and adorned himself, at least in his portraits, in scarfs and feathers and gold chains. Saskia brought him a marriage portion of forty thousand guilders, a large sum for those times, and she brought him also a large circle of good friends in Amsterdam. She bore him four children, Rum-bartus and two girls successively named Cornelia after his beloved mother, all of whom died in infancy, and Titus, named after Titia a sister of Saskia. We have several noble portraits of Saskia, a good type of the beauty of Holland, all painted with the utmost love and care, at Cassel (1633), at Dresden (1641), and a posthumous one (1643) at Berlin. But the greatest in workmanship and most pathetic in expression seems to us, though it is decried by Bode, that of Antwerp (1641), in which it is impossible not to trace declining health and to find a melancholy presage of her death, which took ])lace in 1642. Then truly Avent out the light of Rembrandt’s life.
Returning to Rembrandt’s work, Ave find one of the greatest portraits of 1634 to be the superb full length portrait of Martin Daey, Avhich with that of !Madame Daey, painted according to Vosmaer some years later, formed one of the ornaments of the Van Loon collection at Amsterdam. Both iioav belong to Baron Gustave de Rothschild. From the firm detailed execution of this portrait one turns with Avonder to the broader handling of the Old Woman, aged eighty-three, in the National Gallery, of the same year, remarkable for the effect of reflected light and still more for the sympathetic rendering of character.
The life of Samson supplied many subjects in these early days. The so-called Count of Gueldres Threatening his Father-in-law of the Berlin Gallery has been restored to its proper signification by M. Kolloff, who finds it to be Samson. It is forced and violent in its action. But the
greatest of this series, and one of the prominent pictures of Rembrandt’s work, is the Marriage of Samson of the Dresden Gallery, painted in 1638. Here Rembrandt gives the rein to his imagination and makes the scene live before us. Except the bride (Saskia), who sits calm and grand on a dais in the centre of the feast, with the full light again playing on her flowing locks and wealth of jewels, all is animated and full of bustle. Samson, evidently a Rembrandt of fantasy, leans over a chair propounding his riddle to the Philistine lords. In execution it is a great advance on former subject pictures; it is bolder in manner, and we have here signs of his approaching love of warmer tones of red and yellow. It is also a fine example of his magic play of colour.
The story of Susannah also occupied him in these early years, and he returned to the subject in 1641 and 1653. The Bather of the National Gallery may also be another interpretation of the same theme. In all of these pictures the woman is coarse in type and lumpy in form, though the modelling is soft and round, the effect which Rembrandt always strove to gain. Beauty of form was outside his art. But the so-called Danae (1636) at St Petersburg is a sufficient reply to those who decry his nude female forms. As flesh painting it glows with colour and life, and the blood seems to pulsate under the warm skin. In the picturesque story of Tobit Rembrandt found much to interest him, as we see in the beautiful small picture of the Arenberg collection at Brussels. Sight is being restored to the aged Tobias, while with infinite tenderness his wife holds the old man’s hand caressingly. The momentary action is complete, and the picture goes straight to the heart. In the Berlin Gallery he paints the anxiety of the parents as they wait the return of their son. In 1637 he painted the fine picture now in the Louvre of the Flight of the Angel; and the same subject is grandly treated by him, apparently about 1645, in the picture exhibited in the winter exhibition at Burlington House in 1885. Reverence and awe are shown in every attitude of the Tobit family. A similar lofty treatment is to be found in the Christ as the Gardener appearing to Mary of 1638 (Buckingham Palace).
We have now arrived at the year 1640, the threshold of his second manner, which extended to 1654, the middle age of Rembrandt. During the latter part of the previous decade we find the shadows more transparent and the blending of light and shade more perfect. There is a growing power in every part of his art. The coldness of his first manner had disappeared, and the tones were gradually changing into golden-brown. He had passed through what Bode calls his “ Sturm-und-Drang ” period of exaggerated expression, as in the Berlin Samson, and had attained to a truer, calmer form of dramatic expression, of which the Manoali of Dresden is a good example (1641). Whether it was that he was getting tired of painting commissioned portraits, that he was independent of them, or that he aimed at higher flights, it is certain that these portraits painted “to order” became more rare about this time, and that those which we have are chiefly friends of his circle, such as the Mennonite Preacher (C. C. Ansloo) and the Gilder (Le Doreur), a fine example of his golden tone, formerly in the Morny collection and now in America. His own splendid portrait (1640) in the National Gallery illustrates the change in his work. It describes the man well,—strong and robust, with powerful head, firm and compressed lips and determined chin, with heavy eye-bro\vs, separated by a deep vertical furrow, and with eyes of keen penetrating glance,—altogether a self-reliant man that would carry out his own ideas, careless whether his popularity waxed or waned. The fantastic rendering of himself has disappeared; he seems more
conscious of his dignity and position. He has now many friends and pupils, and numerous commissions, even from the stadtholder; lie has bought a large house in the Breedstraat, in which during the next sixteen years of his life lie gathered his large collection of paintings, engravings, armour, and costume which figure afterwards in his inventory. His taste was wide and his purchases large, for he was joint owner with picture dealers of paintings by Giorgione and Palma Veccliio, while for a high-priced Marc-antonio Raimondi print he gave in exchange a fine impression of his Christ Healing the Sick, which has since been known as the Hundred Guilder Print. The stadt-liolder was not a prompt payer, and an interesting correspondence took place between Rembrandt and Constantin Huygens, the poet and secretary of the prince. The Rembrandt letters which have come down to us are few, and these are therefore of importance. Rembrandt puts a high value on the picture, which he says had been painted “ with much care and zeal,” but he is willing to take what the prince thinks proper; while to Huygens he sends a large picture as a present for his trouble in carrying through the business. There is here no sign of the grasping greed with which he has been charged, while his unselfish conduct is seen in the settlement of the family affairs at the death of his mother in 1640.
The year 1642 is remarkable for the great picture formerly known as the Night Watch, but now more correctly as the Sortie of the Banning Cock Company, another of the landmarks of Rembrandt’s career, in which twenty-nine life-sized civic guards are introduced issuing pell-mell from their club house. Such guilds of arque-busiers had been painted admirably before by Ravesteyn and notably by Frans Hals, but Rembrandt determined to throw life and animation into the scene, which is full of bustle and movement. One can almost hear the beating of the drum and the barking of the dog. The dominant colour is the citron yellow uniform of the lieutenant, wearing a blue sash, while a Titian-like red dress of a musketeer, the black velvet dress of the captain, and the varied green of the girl and drummer, all produce a rich and harmonious effect. The background has become dark and heavy by accident or neglect, and the scutcheon on which the .names are painted is scarcely to be seen.
But this year of great achievement was also the year of his great loss, for Saskia died in 1642, leaving Rembrandt her sole trustee for her son Titus, but with full use of the money till he should marry again or till the marriage of Titus. The words of the will express her love for her husband and her confidence in him. With her death his life was changed. Bode has remarked that there is a pathetic sadness in his pictures of the Holy Family,—a favourite subject at this period of his life. All of these he treats with the naive simplicity of Reformed Holland, giving us the real carpenter’s shop and the mother watching over the Infant reverently and lovingly, with a fine union of realism and idealism. It is true indeed that the circumstances of his time and country made it impossible for him to attempt to realize the ancient forms of Hebrew life, or to revive the bye-past race of Judaea. He was content, as the old Italians were, with the types around him. The street in which he lived swarmed with Dutch and Portuguese Jews, and many a Jewish rabbi sat to him. He accepted their turbans and local dress as characteristic of the people. But in his religious pictures it is not the costume we look at; what strikes us is the profound perception of the sentiment of the story, making them true to all time and independent of local circumstance. A notable example of this feeling is to be found in the Woman Taken in Adultery of the National Gallery, painted in 1644 in the manner of the Simeon of the Hague.
Beyond the ordinary claims of art, it commands our attention from the grand conception of the painter who here as in other pictures and etchings has invested Christ with a majestic dignity which recalls Leonardo and no other. A similar lofty ideal is to be found in his various renderings of the Pilgrims at Emmaus, notably in the Louvre picture of 1648, in which, as Mrs Jameson says, “he returns to those first spiritual principles which were always the dowry of ancient art. Here we have before us a countenance pale and tender, meek and lowly of heart, adorned only with holiness and a glorified life.” From the same year we have the Good Samaritan of the Louvre, the story being told with intense pathos. The helpless suffering of the wounded man, the curiosity of the boy on tiptoe, the excited faces at the upper window, are all conveyed with masterly skill. In these two last pictures we find a broader touch and freer handling, while the tones pass into a dull yellow and brown with a marked predilection for deep rich red. Whether it was that this scheme of colour found no favour with the Amsterdamers, who, as Hoogstraten tells us, could not understand the Sortie, it seems certain that Rembrandt was not invited to take any leading part in the celebration of the congress of Westphalia of this year (1648), a year famous in Dutch history for the European declaration of the independence of Holland, and in Dutch art as the subject of Terburg’s picture in the National Gallery and of Van der Heist’s famous Banquet of the Civic Guard at Amsterdam.
Rembrandt touched no side of art without setting his mark on it, whether in still life, as in his dead birds or the Slaughtered Ox of the Louvre, or in his drawings of elephants and lions, all of which are instinct with life. But at this period of his career we come upon a branch of his art on which he left, both in etching and in painting, the stamp of his genius, viz., landscape. Roeland Roghman, but ten years his senior, evidently influenced his style, for the resemblance between their works is so great that, as at Cassel, there has been confusion of authorship. Hercules Seghers also was much appreciated by Rembrandt, for at his sale eight pictures by this master figure in the inventory, and Vosmaer discovered that Rembrandt had worked on a plate by Seghers and had added figures to an etched Flight into Egypt. The earliest pure landscape known to us from Rembrandt’s hand is the Winter Scene of Cassel (1646), silvery and delicate. As a rule in his painted landscape he aims at grandeur and poetical effect, as in the Repose of the Holy Family of 1647 (till recently called the Gipsies), a moonlight effect, clear even in the shadows. The Canal of Lord Lansdowne, and the Mountain Landscape with the Approaching Storm, the sun shining out behind the heavy clouds, are both conceived and executed in this spirit. A similar poetical vein runs through the Castle on the Hill of Cassel, in which the beams of the setting sun strike on the castle while the valley is sunk in the shades of approaching night. More powerful still is the weird effect of Lord Lansdowne’s Windmill, with its glow of light and darkening shadows. In all these pictures light with its magical influences is the theme of the poet-painter. From the number of landscapes by himself in the inventory of his sale, it would appear that these grand works were not appreciated by his contemporaries. The last of the landscape series dates from 1655 or 1656, the close of the middle age or manhood of Rembrandt, a period of splendid power. In the Joseph Accused by Potiphar’s Wife of 1654 we have great dramatic vigour and perfect mastery of expression, while the brilliant colour and glowing effect of light and shade attest his strength. To this period also belongs the great portrait of himself in the Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge.
But evil days were at hand. The long-continued wars
and civil troubles had worn out the country. Trade and commerce languished, and in Amsterdam hundreds of houses were empty. Rembrandt’s brothers had suffered, and money was scarce. His own and doubtless Saskia’s means were tied up in his house and in his large collection of valuable pictures, and we find Rembrandt borrowing considerable sums of money on the security of his house to keep things going. Perhaps, as Bode suggests, this was the reason of his extraordinary activity at this time. Then, unfortunately, in this year of 1654, we find Rembrandt involved in the scandal of having a child by his servant Hendrickie Jaghers or Stoffels, as appears by the books of the Reformed Church at Amsterdam. He recognized the child and gave it the name of Cornelia after his muchloved mother, but there is no proof that he married the mother, and the probability is against such a marriage, as the provisions of Saskia’s will would in that case have come into force, and her fortune would have passed at once to her son Titus. Hendrickie seems to have continued to live with him, for we find her claiming a chest as her property at his sale in 1658. Doubtless she is the peasant girl of Rasdorf to whom Houbraken says Rembrandt was married. Sad as the story is, Hendrickie has an interest for us. Bode asserts that in his art there was always a woman in close relationship to Rembrandt and appearing in his work—his mother, his sister, and then Saskia. Are there any traces of Hendrickie ? What if the little servant maid of ten years, painted about 1645 (Dulwich Gallery), and again in the Demidoff picture of the same year, in which the girl is painted in the red dress of a Dutch orphan, in both cases smiling and leaning over a window, were the maidservant of his house in 1654? The ages would correspond. Bode suggests that the beautiful portrait of the Lady in the Salon Carré of the Louvre and the Amor and Cupid of the same gallery may represent Hendrickie and her child. Both pictures belong to this date, and by their treatment are removed from the category of Rembrandt’s usual portraits. But if this is conjecture, we get nearer to fact when we look at the picture exhibited at Burlington House in 1883 to which tradition has attached the name of “ Rembrandt’s Mistress.” At a glance one can see that it is not the mere head of a model, as she lies in bed raising herself to put aside a curtain as if she heard a well-known footstep. It is clearly a woman in whom Rembrandt had a personal interest. The date is clearly 165 , the fourth figure being illegible; but the brilliant carnations and masterly touch connect it with the Potiphar’s Wife of 1654 and the Jaghers period. It is painful to turn from this attempt to trace the life of Rembrandt in his work to the sadder side of the story. In 1656 his financial affairs became more involved, and the Orphans’ Chamber transferred the house and ground to Titus, though Rembrandt was still allowed to take charge of Saskia’s estate. Nothing, however, could avert the ruin of the painter, who was declared bankrupt in July 1656, an inventory of all his property being ordered by the Insolvency Chamber. The first sale took place in 1657 in the Keizerskroon hotel, Thomas Jacobz Haring, a well-known name in connexion with Rembrandt’s art, being auctioneer; and the second, at which the larger part of the etchings and drawings were disposed of, in 1658—“collected by Rembrandt himself with much love and care,” says the catalogue. The sum realized, under 5000 guilders, was but a fraction of their value. The time was unfavourable over the whole of Europe for such sales, the renowned collection of Charles I. of England having brought but a comparatively small sum in 1653. Driven thus from his house, stripped of everything he possessed even to his table linen, Rembrandt took a modest lodging in the same Keizerskroon hostelry
(the amounts of his bills are in record), apparently without friends and thrown entirely on himself. But there was no failure here, for this dark year of 1656 stands out prominently as one in which some of his greatest works were produced, as, for example, John the Baptist Preaching in the Wilderness, belonging to Lord Dudley, and Jacob Blessing the Sons of Joseph, of the Cassel Gallery. It is impossible not to respect the man who, amid the utter ruin of his affairs, could calmly conceive and carry out such noble work. Yet even in his art one can see that the tone of his mind was sombre. Instead of the brilliancy of 1654 we have for two or three years a preference for dull yellows, reds, and greys, with a certain measure of uniformity of tone. The handling is broad and rapid, as if to give utterance to the ideas which crowded on his mind. There is less caressing of colour for its own sake, even less straining after vigorous effect of light and shade. Still the two pictures just named are among the greatest works of the master. To the same year belongs the Lesson in Anatomy of Johann Deyman, another of the many men of science with whom Bembrandt was closely associated. The subject is similar to the great Tulp of 1632, but his manner and power of colour had advanced so much that Sir Joshua Reynolds, in his visit to Holland in 1781, was reminded by it of Michelangelo and Titian.@@1  Vosmaer ascribes to the same year, though Bode places it later, the famous portrait of Jan Six, the future burgomaster, consummate in its ease and character, as Six descends the steps of his house drawing on his glove. The connexion between Rembrandt and the great family of Six was long and close, and is honourable to both. Jan married a daughter of Tulp the anatomist, one of Rembrandt’s earliest friends. In 1641 the mother of Six, Anna Wymer, had been painted with consummate skill by Rembrandt, who also executed in 1647 the beautiful etching of Six standing by a window reading his tragedy of “ Medea,” afterwards illustrated by his friend. Now he paints his portrait in the prime of manhood, and in the same year of gloom paints for him the masterly John the Baptist. Six, if he could not avert the disaster of Rembrandt’s life, at least stood by him in the darkest hour, when certainly the creative energy of Rembrandt was in full play. The same period gives us the Master of the Vineyard, and the Adoration of the Magi of Buckingham Palace.
After the sale of the house in the Breedstraat Rembrandt retired to the Rosengracht, an obscure quarter at the west end of the city. Vosmaer thinks he has traced the very house, but some doubts have been thrown on this discovery by De Roever. We are now drawing to the splendid close of his career in his third manner, in which his touch became broader, his impasto more solid, and his knowledge more complete. Hastening on by quicker steps, we may mention the Old Man with the Grey Beard of the National Gallery (1657), and the Bruyningh, the Secretary of the Insolvents’ Chamber, of Cassel (1658), both leading up to the great portraits of the Syndics of the Cloth Hall of 1661. Nearly thirty years separate us from the Lesson in Anatomy, years of long-continued observation and labour. The knowledge thus gathered, the problems solved, the mastery attained, are shown here in abundance. Rembrandt returns to the simplest gamut of colour, but shows his skill in the use of it, leaving on the spectator an
@@@1 This picture has had a strange history. It had suffered by fire and was sold to a Mr Chaplin of London in 1841, was exhibited in Leeds in 1868, and again disappeared, ultimately to be found in the magazines of the South Kensington Museum as a doubtful Rembrandt. The patriotism of some Dutch lovers of art restored it to its native country; and it now hangs, a magnificent fragment, in the Museum of Amsterdam.
impression of absolute enjoyment of the result, unconscious of the means. The plain burghers dealing with the simple concerns of their guild arrest our attention as if they were the makers of history. They live for ever.
In his old age Rembrandt continued to paint his own portrait as assiduously as in his youthful and happy days. About twenty of these portraits are known, a typical one being found in the National Gallery. All show the same self reliant expression, though broken down indeed by age and the cares of a hard life. There is in Stockholm a large and unfinished picture which, if painted by Rembrandt, belongs to the late years of his life (etched by Waltner, Gaz. des Beaux-Arts, Nov. 1874). It is catalogued as the Oath of John Ziska, certainly a strange subject for Rembrandt. Bode accepts the more natural interpretation of Prof. Anton Springer, viz., the Feast of Judas Maccabæus, and ascribes the picture to an earlier date than that given by Vosmaer. Havard, however, after careful examination, attributes the work to Carel Fabritius.
About the year 1663 Rembrandt painted the (so-called) Jewish Bride of the Van der Hoop Gallery and the Family Group of Brunswick, the last and perhaps the most brilliant works of his life, bold and rapid in execution and marvellous in the subtle mixture and play of colours in which lie seems to revel. The woman and children are painted with such love that the impression is conveyed that they represent a fancy family group of the painter in his old age. This idea received some confirmation from the supposed discovery that he left a widow Catherine Van Wyck and two children, but this theory falls to the ground, for De Roever has shown (Oud Holland, 1883) that Catherine was the widow of a marine painter Theunisz Blanckerhoff, who died about the same time as Rembrandt. The mistake arose from a miscopying of the register. The subject of these pictures is thus more mysterious than ever.
In 1668 Titus, the only son of Rembrandt, died, leaving one child, and on 8th October 1669 the great painter himself passed away, leaving two children, and wr as buried in the Wester Kerk. He had outlived his popularity, for his manner of painting, as we know from contemporaries, ■was no longer in favour with a people who preferred the smooth trivialities of Van der Werff and the younger Mieris, the leaders of an expiring school.
We must give but a short notice of Rembrandt’s achievements in etching. Here he stands out by universal confession as first, excelling all by his unrivalled technical skill, his mastery of expression, and the lofty conceptions of many of his great pieces, as in the Death of the Virgin, the Christ Preaching, the Christ Healing the Sick (the Hundred Guilder Print), the Presentation to the People, the Crucifixion, and others. So great is his skill simply as an etcher that one is apt to overlook the nobleness of the etcher’s ideas and the depth of his nature, and this tendency has been doubtless confirmed by the enormous difference in money value between “ states ” of the same })late, rarity giving in many cases a fictitious worth in the eyes of collectors. The points of difference between these states arise from the additions and changes made by Rembrandt on the plate. ; and the prints taken off by him have been subjected to the closest inspection by Bartsch, Gersaint, Wilson, Daulby, DeClaussin, C. Blanc, Willsliire, Seymour Haden, Middleton, and others, who have described them at great length and to whom the reader is referred. The classification of Rembrandt’s etchings adopted till lately was the artificial one of treating them according to the subject, as Biblical, portrait, landscape, and so on ; and to Vosmaer must bo ascribed the credit of being the first to view Rembrandt’s etched work, as he has done his work in painting, in the more scientific and intei’esting line of chronology. This method has been developed by Mr Seymour Haden and Mr Middleton, and is now universally accepted. But even so recently as 1873 M. C. Blanc, in his fine work L'Œuvre complet clc Rembrandt, still adheres to the older and less intelligent arrangement, resting his preference on the frequent absence of dates on the etchings and more strangely still on the equality of the work. Mr Seymour Haden’s reply is conclusive, “ that the more important etchings which may be taken as types are dated, and that, the style of the etchings at different periods of Rembrandt’s career being fully as marked as that of his paintings, no more difficulty attends the classification
of one than of the other.” Indeed M. Vosmaer points out in his I life of Rembrandt that there is a marked parallelism between I Rembrandt’s painted and etched work, his early work in both cases ! being timid and tentative, while he gradually gains strength and ' character both with the brush and the graver’s tools. M. ׳ Yosmaer’s scheme of chronological order has doubtless been ! challenged in some respects, but it gave the deathblow to the older system. Mr Seymour Haden has started the theory that many of the etchings ascribed to Rembrandt up to 1640 were the work of his pupils, and seems to make out his case, though it may be carried too far. He argues (in his monograph on the Etched Work of Rembrandt, 1877) that Rembrandt’s real work in etching began | after Saskia’s death, when he assumes that Rembrandt betook himself to Elsbroek, the country house of his “powerful friend” Jan j Six. But it must be remembered that the future burgomaster was then but a young student of twenty-four, a member of a great family it is true, but unmarried and taking as yet no share in ! public life. That Rembrandt was a frequent visitor at Elsbroek, and that the Three Trees and other etchings may have been pro- j duced there, may be admitted without requiring us to believe that : he had left Amsterdam as his place of abode. The great period of his etching lies between 1639 and 1661, after which the old painter ! seems to have renounced the needle. In these twenty years were produced his greatest works in portraiture, landscape, and Bible story. They bear the impress of the genius of the man.
In addition to the authors name-1, the reader is referred to AA\ Burger (the nom de plume of Th. Thoré), Musées de la Hollande, 1S58-1S60; K. Fromentin, Maîtres d'autrefois; H. Havard, L'École Hollandaise-, Scheltema, Rembrand, Discours sur sa Vie, 1866; Ath. Cocquercl fils, Rembrandt, son individualisme dans l'art, Paris, 1869.—Since the foregoing was put in type, a new and valuable work on Rembrandt, chiefly as the etcher, lias appeared fiom the pen of M. Engine Dutuit (L'Œuvre complet de Rembrandt, Paris, 1885). M. butuit rejects the classification of M. C. Blanc ns dubious and unwarranted, dismisses the chronological arrangement proposed by M. Vosmaer and adopted by Mr Seymour Haden anl Mr Middleton as open to discussion and lacking in possibility of proof, and reverts to the order established by Gersaint, ranging liis materials under twelve heads :—Portraits (real and supposed), Old Testament and New Testament subjects, histories, landscapes, &c.    (J. F. AV.)
REMIGIUS (or Remedius, as the name is spelt in Fredegarius and elseAA-fiere), or Remi, Avas born of noble parents and, according to a later tradition, in the district of Laon. In one of his OAvn letters, Avritten apparently about 512 a.d., Remigius speaks of himself as having been a bishop for fifty-three years. This throws back his election to about 459 ; and, as all his earlier biographers agree in making him twenty-one years of age on his appointment to this office, the date of his birth may be fixed at somewhere about the year 438. The bishopric was forced upon the young recluse by the townspeople of Rheims, who in this century had not yet lost the right of electing their own pastor. For the next thirty-seven years of Remigius’s life A\־e have no clue excepting one, or at most two, allusions in the letters of Sidonius Apollin-aris (Ep. viii. 14 ; ix. 7,8),—both of which epistles M. Baret has assigned to from 472 to 474. It is true that Fredegarius (Du Cliesne, i. 728), Avriting about 658, and the later biographers associate the name of Remigius Avith that of Clovis in the story of the famous vase of Sois-sons. But the earlier account of Gregory (c. 590) lends no sanction to this association ; and it is not till 496 that Remigius figures definitely in history. On the Christmas day of this year he baptized Clovis at Rheims Avith the greatest pomp. “ Bow thy head meekly, O Sicambrian,” Avere his Avords to the royal convert ; “ adore Avhat thou hast burnt and burn Avhat thou hast adored.” Two of the king’s sisters Avere baptized about the same time ; and on the death of one of these, Albofledis, Remigius Avrote Clovis a letter of consolation that is still preserved (Dom. Bouq. iv. 51). The traditions and perhaps the documents of Hincmar’s time enumerated the immense possessions conferred by Clovis upon his favourite ])relate. Remigius, in his turn, does not seem to have been slack in urging the orthodox king to undertake the deliverance of his fellow believers who in southern Gaul reluctantly submitted to the yoke of the Aryan Burgundians and Visigoths. His intrigues with the discontented bishops of Burgundy are said to have paved the Avay for Clovis’s invasion (500). Hincmar has preserved the tradition that Remigius blessed Clovis before he set out
1 on his Avar against the Visigoths (507) ; r.nd Ave still ha\r e the letter in which he recommends the king to be merciful in his neAv conquests (Bouquet, iv. 52 ; see, however,
' Junghans’s remarks on the probable date of this letter).
It is not, hoAvever, solely as a statesman or as the mentor of a barbarian king that Remigius claims attention. In Hincmar’s time he Avas recognized as the second founder of the church of Rheims, to whose influence that see OAved the greater ])art of its possessions ; and in such a matter the popular tradition can hardly have been entirely Avrong. One of his feAv remaining letters is directed in the most vigorous terms against the encroachments of a neighbouring bishop, Falco of Maestriclit (Bouq., iv. 53). He is said to have established a bishopric at Laon, his native place. So great Avas his fame that it reached the ears of Alaric and his Gothic counsellors at Toulouse, and that, at last, Pope Hormisdas or one of his immediate predecessors appointed him his vicar throughout the Frankish domains. Of Remigius’s writ-ings only a feAv verses and the letters alluded to above have been preserved ; but his credit for learning and eloquence is amply attested by Sidonius Apollinaris and Gregory of Tours. The former, writing to Remigius (c. 472), declares him to be unsurpassed by any living orator.
Gregory has also preserved the tradition that Remigius Avas bishop of Rheims for more than seventy years (De Gloria Conf., 89), a fact Avhicli inclines us to lay some confidence on the more detailed statement of Hincmar that he died on January 13, in the ninety-sixth year of his age, after an episcopate of seventy-four years. Hence Ave may fix upon 533 as the date of his decease, more especially as this conclusion coincides Avell enough Avith the little that is known as to the chronology of his îavo immediate successors (Ste Marthe, ix. 10-13). In 882, Avhen the Northmen AA־ere threatening a descent upon the un-AAr allecl city of Rheims, Hincmar had the body of St Remi ' removed from its first resting-place in the little church of ! St Christopher to Epernay. Next year it aa־us brought back to Rheims, but it Avas not restored to its original home till some years later. We learn from Gregory of Tours that, even so early as the reign of Childebert II. (575-596) the first of October AA7 as held sacred to the memory of the saint. During the Carlovingian times this day became ; one of the great feasts of the year, its observance being : sanctioned by the council of Mainz in 813 and a capitulary of Louis le Débonnaire in 821 (Dessailly). In 1049 Pope Leo IX. assisted at the removal of the relics and issued a decree for the observation of the fête.
The authorities for the life of St Remi are very meagre. An almost contemporary Vita Rcmigii, written in the popular j Latin of the period (cothurno Gallicano), and known to Gregory of Tours, Avas, according to Hincmar, almost entirely destroyed in the I troubled times of Charles Martel, but not before it had been ! abbreviated and stripped of nearly all historic value by Fortunatus j between the years 565 and 590. This abridgment, which still exists, formed the basis of the Vita Rcmigii Avritten by Hincmar, archbishop of Rheims from 845 to 882, who, however, professes to incorporate with his work some fragments of the original Vita and other ancient documents, as he has most certainly incorporated the living traditions of his own age. In the course of the next century Flodoard, a canon of Rheims {oh. 966), compiled his account of St Remi, by making a very free use of his predecessors’ labours, with, however, some traditional information of his own. The above works are all in Mignc’s Patrologia, vols, lxxxviii., exxv., kc. See also Fredegarius and Gregory of Tours, whose authority is only second to that of Fortunatus. The scattered documents of the Merovingian period are to be found in the great collections of A. I)u Cliesne, Bouquet, and Labbé. Le Cointe’s Annales Ecclesiastici, vol. i. ; Mabillon’s Annales Ordinis Bened., vol. i. ; Ste Marthe’s Gallia Christiana, \T ol. ix. ; and the Ada Sanctorum (October 1), which contains the best modern life of St Remi, may be consulted with advantage. Of French lives see that by the prior Armand. The so-called Testamenlum Rcmigii, which has been preserved in a longer and shorter form by Flodoard and
Hincmar, has lately found an able champion of its authenticity in the Abbe Dessailly. For Remigius’s connexion with Vedastus (who assisted in the conversion of Clovis), St Medard, St Eleutherius, &c., see the Bollandist Vita Jtemigii alluded to above and the Acta Sanctorum for Feburary 6, June 8, and February 20.
REMIREMONT, the chief town of an arrondisseinent of the department of the Vosges, France, 17 miles south-south-east of Epinal by rail, on the banks of the Moselle where it is joined by the Moselotte. It is a pretty and well-built town picturesquely surrounded by forest-clad mountains, and commanded by Fort Parmont, one of the line of defensive works along the Moselle. Besides a great cotton spinning-mill (30,000 spindles) brought from Miilhausen after the war of 1870, it possesses tanneries, weaving-factories, and saw-mills ; and it trades in timber, cattle, cheese, coopers’ wares, <fec. The more interesting buildings belong to the ancient abbey, to which the town owes most of its fame. The abbey church was consecrated to Pope Leo IX. in person in 1051. The abbatial residence (which now contains the mairie, the court-house, and the public library) has been twice rebuilt in modern times (in 1750, and again after the fire of 1871), but the original plan and style have been preserved in the imposing front, the vestibule, and the grand staircase. The population of the town was 6212 in 1871, and 7857 in 1881; that of the commune 6510 and 8126.
Remiremont has its name from St Romaric, one of the companions of St Columban of Luxeuil, who founded a monastery and j a convent on the hills above the site where the town now stands, j On the destruction of these establishments by the Hungarians in 910 a.d. the nuns took refuge at Remiremont, and their new convent became famous under an abbess who “carried not a crosier but a sceptre.” Enriched by dukes of Lorraine, kings of France, and emperors of Germany, the ladies of Remiremont ultimately \ attained to great power. The abbess was a princess of the empire, j and received consecration at the hands of the pope at Rome. The ; canonesses (fifty in number) were selected only from those who i could give proof of noble descent. Their property comprised fifty- j two signiories and twenty-two petty lordships. On Whitsun Monday the neighbouring parishes paid homage to the chapter in a ceremony called the “ Kyrioles ” ; and on their accession dukes of Lorraine had to come to Remiremont with great pomp to swear to j continue their protection. The “War of the Scutcheons” (Panon- i ceaux) in 1566 between the duke and the abbess ended in favour of the duke ; and the abbess never recovered her former position. The townsfolk took advantage of this and similar contests to extend their municipal privileges. In the 17th century the ladies of Remiremont fell away so much from the original monastic rule as to take the title of countesses, renounce their vows, and marry. The town was attacked by the French in 1638, and ruined by the earthquake of 1682. With the rest of Lorraine it was joined to France in 1766. The monastery on the hill (Mont de Romeric or Saint Mont) and the nunnery in the town were both suppressed in the Revolution.
REMONSTRANTS meant originally those Dutch Protestants who, after the death of Arminius (q.v.), continued to maintain the views associated with his name, and in 1610 presented to the states of Holland and Friesland a “ remonstrance ” in five articles formulating their points of departure from stricter Calvinism. Their adversaries met them with a “ counter remonstrance, ” and so were known as the Counter Remonstrants. The conflict continued to rage till 1618-19, when the synod of Dort (see Dort, i Synod of) established the victory of the stricter school, i The judgment of the synod was enforced by the deposition and in some cases the banishment of Remonstrant ministers; but the Government soon became convinced that their party was not dangerous to the state, and in 1630 they were formally allowed liberty to reside in all parts of Holland and build churches and schools. In 1621 they had also received liberty to make a settlement in Schleswig, where they built themselves the town of Friedriclistadt. This colony still exists. The doctrine of the Remonstrants was embodied in 1621 in a confessio written by Episcopius {q.v.), their great theologian, while Wytenbogaert gave them a catechism and regulated their churchly order. The
Remonstrants adopted a simple synodical constitution ; but their importance was henceforth more theological than ecclesiastical. Their seminary in Amsterdam has boasted of many distinguished names—Curcellæus, Limborch, Wetstein, Le Clerc ; and their liberal school of theology, which naturally grew more liberal and even rationalistic, reacted powerfully on the state church. The Remonstrants are now a small body (see Holland, vol. xii. p. 66), but respected for their traditions of scholarship and liberal thought.
REMSCHEID, a manufacturing town of Rhenish Prussia, in the district of Düsseldorf, sometimes dignified with the title of the “ Rhenish Sheffield,” is situated about 20 miles to the north-east of Cologne, at a height of 1120 feet above the sea. It is the centre of the German hardware industry, and large quantities of tools, scythes, skates, and other small articles in iron, steel, and brass are annually made here for exportation to all parts of Europe, the East, and North and South America. In 1880 the commune contained 30,029 inhabitants (26,844 Protestants), of whom 11,000 belonged to Remscheid proper and the rest to the manufacturing villages with which it is grouped. The name of Remscheid occurs in a document of 1132, and the town received the first impulse to its ! industrial importance through the immigration of Protestant refugees from France and Holland.
RÉMUSAT, Abel (1788-1832), a distinguished Chinese scholar, was born at Paris, 5th September 1788. His father, a surgeon, superintended his early education in person and designed him for the medical profession. Jean Pierre Abel Rémusat graduated with distinction as M.D. in 1813, and for a short time held a hospital appointment, but his heart had long been in other studies. A Chinese herbal in the collection of the Abbé Tersan had attracted his attention when he was still a lad ; he taught himself to read by great perseverance and with very imperfect helps, and at the end of five years’ study he produced in 1811 an I Essai sur la langue et la littérature Chinoises, and a paper on foreign languages among the Chinese, which procured him the patronage of De Sacy. In 1814a chair of Chinese was founded at the Collège de France, and Rémusat was ])laced in it. From this time he gave himself wholly to the languages of the Extreme East, and published a long series of useful works, among which his contributions from Chinese sources to the history of the Tartar nations claim special notice. Rémusat became an editor of the Journal de Savants in 1818, and founder and first secretary of the Paris Asiatic Society in 1822 ; he held also in the courso of his life various honourable and lucrative Government appointments. He married in 1830, but had no children. He died at Paris, 4 th June 1832, and his éloge was written by De Sacy.
RÉMUSAT, Charles François ]Marie, Comte de (1797-1875), French politician and man of letters, was born at Paris on the 13th March 1797.. His father, also Comte de Rémusat, of a good though not very dis-! tinguished family in the district of Toulouse, was a man of ! considerable literary taste, of much administrative ability, and of moderate Liberal views in politics. He was chamberlain to Napoleon, but disapproved of the emperor’s absolutist government and aggressive policy, and after the restoration became prefect first of the Haute Garonne and then of the Nord. His wife (mother of Charles) was a still more remarkable person, whose full abilities have only recently been made known. Her maiden name was Claire Elisabeth Jeanne Gravier de Vergennes. She was born in 1780, and was early introduced to the salons, which reopened after the cessation of the Terror. She married the Comte de Rémusat when she was very young, and was ! long attached to the service of Josephine, to whom she was
finally dwne dvpalais. Talleyrand was a particular admirer of hers, and she was generally recognized as a woman of great intellectual capacity as well as of much personal grace and charm. After her death (1824) an Fssai sur VLfucation des Femmes was published and received an academic couronne. But it was not till 1879, when her grandson M. Paul de Remusat published her memoirs, which have since been followed by some correspondence with her son, that justice could be generally done to her literary talent. The light thrown on the Napoleonic court by this remarkable book was great, and !Madame de Remusat appeared as hardly the inferior of the best memoir and letter writers of the previous century. The same documents contained much information on the youth and education of her son Charles. He very early developed political views more decidedly Liberal than those of his parents, and, being bred to the bar, published in 1820 a short pamphlet on jury trial. He was also an active journalist, showing in philosophy and literature the special influence of Cousin. He was, however, at the same time a thorough man of the world, and is said to have furnished to no small extent the original of Balzac’s brilliant egoist Henri de Marsay. He took no active part in politics till the revolution of July, when he signed the journalists’ protest against the Ordinances, and in the following October was elected deputy for Toulouse. He then ranked himself with the “doctrinaires,” and supported (being a speaker of no small power) most of those measures of restriction on popular liberty which rapidly made the July monarchy unpopular with French Radicals. In 1836 he became under-secretary of state for the interior, but did not hold the post lov ng. He then became an ally of Thiers, and in 1840 held the ministry of the interior for a short time. In the same year he became an Academician.
For the rest of Louis Philippe’s reign lie was in opposition till he joined Thiers in his brief and hopeless attempt at a ministry in the spring of 1848. During this time Remusat constantly spoke in the chamber, but was still more active in literature, especially on philosophical subjects,—the most remarkable of his works being his book on Abélard (1845). In 1848 he was elected, and in 1849 re-elected, for the department of Haute Garonne and sat on the Conservative side. But he would not support Louis Napoleon, and had to leave France after the coup d’état ; nor did he re-enter political life at all during the second empire, though his son M. Paul de Remusat stood for the Haute Garonne, and was very nearly elected, in 1869. Nor would he at first accept the advances made him after the establishment of the third republic. In 1871 he was appointed minister of foreign affairs and accepted the post. Although minister he was not a deputy, and on standing for Paris in September 1873 he was beaten by M. Barodet. A month later he was elected (having already resigned with Thiers) for the Haute Garonne by a very great majority. He died at Paris on the 6th April 1875.
During his long abstention from political life Remusat continued to write on his favourite subjects of philosophical history and especially English philosophical history. Saint Anselme de Cantor-béry appeared in 1854 ; L’Angleterre au XVII Feme siècle in 1856 (2d ed. enlarged, 1865); Bacon, sa vie, son temps, dec., in 1858 ; Channing, sa vie et ses œuvres, in 1862; John Wesley in 1870; Lord Herbert of Chcrbury in 1874 ; Histoire de la philosophie en Angleterre depuis Bacon jusqu’à Locke, in 1875 ; besides other and minor works. The impression derived from these and from the political records of his life is that he was on the whole one of those men whose performances are unequal to their powers. He wrote well, was a forcible speaker, and an acute critic ; but his adoption of the indeterminate eclecticism of Cousin in philosophy and of the somewhat similarly indeterminate liberalism of Thiers in politics probably had a bad effect on him, though both no doubt accorded with his critical and unenthusiastic turn of mind.
I)ENAISSANCE is a term which lias recently come into i) use to indicate a well-known but indefinite space of time and a certain phase in the development of the European races. On the one hand it denotes the transition from that period of history which we call the Middle Ages to that which we call !Modern. On the other hand it implies those changes in the intellectual and moral attitude of the Western nations by which the transition wr as characterized. If we insist upon the literal meaning of the word, the Renaissance was a re-birth ; and it is needful to inquire of what it was the re-birth. The metaphor of Renaissance may signify the entrance of the European nations upon a fresh stage of vital energy in general, implying a fuller consciousness and a freer exercise of faculties than had belonged to the mediaeval period. Or it may mean the resuscitation of simply intellectual activities, stimulated by the revival of antique learning and its application to the arts and literatures of modern peoples. Upon our choice between these two interpretations of the word depend important differences in any treatment of the subject. The former has the disadvantage of making it difficult to separate the Renaissance from other historical phases—the Reformation, for example—with which it ought not to be confounded. The latter has the merit of assigning a specific name to a limited series of events and group of facts, which can be distinguished for the purpose of analysis from other events and facts with which they are intimately but not indissolubly connected. In other words, the one definition of Renaissance makes it denote the whole change which came over Europe at the close of the Middle Ages. The other confines it to what was known "by our ancestors as the Revival of Learning. Yet, when we concentrate attention on the recovery of antique culture, we become aware that this was only one phenomenon or symptom of a far wider and more comprehensive alteration in the conditions of the European races. We find it needful to retain both terms, Renaissance and Revival of Learning, and to show the relations between the series of events and facts which they severally imply. The Revival of Learning must be regarded as a function of that vital energy, an organ of that mental evolution, which brought the modern world, with its new conceptions of philosophy and religion, its re-awakened arts and sciences, its firmer grasp on the realities of human nature and the world, its manifold inventions and discoveries, its altered political systems, its expansive and progressive forces, into being. Important as the Revival of Learning undoubtedly was, there are essential factors in the complex called the Renaissance with which it can but remotely be connected. When we analyse the whole group of phenomena which have to be considered, we perceive that some of the most essential have nothing or little to do with the recovery of the classics. These are, briefly speaking, the decay of those great fabrics, church and empire, which ruled the Middle Ages both as ideas and as realities; the appearance of full-formed nationalities and languages; the enfeeblement of the feudal system throughout Europe; the invention and application of paper, the mariner’s compass, gunpowder, and printing; the exploration of continents beyond the ocean; and the substitution of the Copernican for the Ptolemaic system of astronomy. Europe in fact had been prepared for a thorough-going metamorphosis before that new ideal of human life and culture which the Revival of Learning brought to light had been made
manifest. It had recovered from the confusion consequent upon the dissolution of the ancient Roman empire. The Teutonic tribes had been Christianized, civilized, and assimilated to the previously Latinized races over whom they exercised the authority of conquerors. Comparative tranquillity and material comfort had succeeded to discord and rough living. Modern nationalities, defined as separate factors in a common system, were ready to cooperate upon the basis of European federation. The ideas of universal monarchy and of indivisible Christendom, incorporated in the Holy Roman Empire and the Roman Church, had so far lost their hold that scope was offered for the introduction of new theories both of state and church which would have seemed visionary or impious to the mediaeval mind. It is therefore obvious that some term, wider than Revival of Learning, descriptive of the change which began to pass over Europe in the 14th and 15th centuries, lias to be adopted. That of Renaissance, Rinascimento, or Renascence is sufficient for the purpose, though we have to guard against the tyranny of what is after all a metaphor. We must not suffer it to lead us into rhetoric about the deadness and the darkness of the Middle Ages, or hamper our inquiry with preconceived assumptions that the re-birth in question was in any true sense a return to the irrecoverable pagan past. Nor must we imagine that there was any abrupt break with the Middle Ages. On the contrary, the Renaissance was rather the last stage of the Middle Ages, emerging from ecclesiastical and feudal despotism, developing what was original in mediaeval ideas by the light of classic arts and letters, holding in itself the promise of the modern world. It was therefore a period and a process of transition, fusion, preparation, tentative endeavour. And just at this point the real importance of the revival of learning may be indicated. That rediscovery of the classic past restored the confidence in their own faculties to men striving after spiritual freedom; revealed the continuity of history and the identity of human nature in spite of diverse creeds and different customs; held up for emulation master-works of literature, philosophy, and art; provoked inquiry; encouraged criticism; shattered the narrow mental barriers imposed by mediaeval orthodoxy. Humanism, a word which will often recur in the ensuing paragraphs, denotes a specific bias which the forces liberated in the Renaissance took from contact with the ancient world,—the particular form assumed by human self-esteem at that epoch,—the ideal of life and civilization evolved by the modern nations. It indicates the endeavour of man to reconstitute himself as a free being, not as the thrall of theological despotism, and the peculiar assistance he derived in this effort from Greek and Roman literature, the litter¿v humaniores, letters leaning rather to the side of man than of divinity.
I It is now apparent in what sense the Renaissance has
־ to be treated in this article. It will be considered as implying a comprehensive movement of the European intellect and will toward self-emancipation, toward re-assertion of the natural rights of the reason and the senses, toward the conquest of this planet as a place of human occupation, and toward the formation of regulative theories both for states and individuals differing from those of mediaeval times. The revival of learning will be treated as a decisive factor in this process of evolution on a new plan. To exclude the Reformation and the Counter-Reformation wholly from the survey is impossible, as will appear more plainly in the sequel. These terms indicate moments in the whole process of modern history which were opposed, each to the other, and both to the Renaissance ; and it is needful to bear in mind that they have, scientifically speaking, a quite separate existence. Yet if the history of Europe in the 16th century of our era came to be written with the brevity with which we write the history of Europe in the 6th century b.c., it would be difficult at the distance of time implied by that supposition to distinguish the Italian movement of the Renaissance in its origin from the German movement of the Reformation. Both would be seen to have a common starting-point in the reaction against long dominant ideas which were becoming obsolete, and also in the excitation of faculties which had during the same period been accumulating energy.
The Renaissance, if we try to regard it as a period, was essentially the transition from one historical stage to another. It cannot therefore be confined within strict chronological limits. This indecision inherent in the nature of a process which involved neither a political revolution nor the promulgation of a new religious creed, but was a gradual metamorphosis of the intellectual and moral state of Europe, is further augmented by the different epochs at which the several nations were prepared to bear their share in it. England, for example, was still feudal and mediaeval when Italy had socially and mentally entered on the modern stadium. A brother of the Black Prince banqueted with Petrarch in the palace of Galeazzo Visconti. That is to say, the founder of Italian humanism, the representative of Italian despotic state-craft, and the companion of Froissart’s heroes met together at a marriage feast. The memories which these names evoke prove how impossible it is to fix boundaries in time for a movement which in 1368 had reached nearly the same point in Italy as it afterwards attained at the close of the 16th century in England. The Renaissance must indeed be viewed mainly as an internal process whereby spiritual energies latent in the Middle Ages were developed into actuality and formed a mental habit for the modern world. The process began in Italy, and gradually extended to the utmost bounds of Europe, producing similar results in every nation, and establishing a common civilization.
There is one date, however, which may be remembered with advantage as the starting-point in time of the Renaissance, after the departure from the Middle Ages had been definitely and consciously made by the Italians. This is the year 1453, when Constantinople, chosen for his capital by the first Christian emperor of Rome, fell into the hands of the Turk. One of the survivals of the old world, the shadow of what had been the Eastern empire, now passed suddenly away. Almost at the same date that visionary revival of the Western empire, which had imposed for six centuries upon the imagination of mediaeval Europe, hampering Italy and impeding the consolidation of Germany, ceased to reckon among political actualities ; while its more robust rival, the Roman Church, seemed likely to sink into the rank of a petty Italian principality. Three lights of mediaeval Christendom, the Eastern empire, the Holy Roman empire, and the papacy, at this point of time severally suffered extinction, mortal enfeeblement, and profound internal transformation. It was demonstrated by the destruction of the Eastern and the dotage of the Western empire, and by the new papal policy which Nicholas V. inaugurated, that the old order of society was about to be superseded. Nothing remained to check those centrifugal forces in state and church which substituted a confederation of rival European powers for the earlier ideal of universal monarchy, and separate religious constitutions for the previous Catholic unity. At the same time the new learning introduced by the earlier humanists awakened free thought, encouraged curiosity, and prepared the best minds of Europe for speculative audacities from which the schoolmen would have shrunk, and which soon expressed themselves in acts of cosmopolitan importance. The new learning had been
received gladly. Its vast significance was hardly understood. Both secular and spiritual potentates delighted in the beauty and fascination of those eloquent words which scholars, poets, and critics uttered—“ words indeed, but words which drew armed hosts behind them ! ”
If we look a little forward to the years 1492-1500, we obtain a second date of great importance. In these years the expedition of Charles VIII. to Naples opened Italy to ' French, Spanish, and German interference. The leading nations of Europe began to compete for the prize of the peninsula, and learned meanwhile that culture which the Italians had perfected. In these years the secularization of the papacy was carried to its final point by Alexander VI., and the Reformation became inevitable. The same period wr as marked by the discovery of America, the exploration of the Indian seas, and the consolidation of the Spanish nationality. It also witnessed the application of printing to the diffusion of knowledge, the revolution effected in military operations by the use of gunpowder, and the revolution in cosmology which resulted from the Copernican discovery. Thus, speaking roughly, the half century between 1450 and 1500 may be termed the culminating point of the Renaissance. The transition from the mediaeval to the modern order was now secured if not accomplished, and a Rubicon had been crossed from which no retrogression to the past was possible. Looking yet a little farther, to the years 1527 and 1530, a third decisive date is reached. In the first of these years happened the sack of Rome, in the second the pacification of Italy by Charles V. under a Spanish hegemony. The age of the Renaissance was now closed for the land which gave it birth. The Reformation had taken firm hold on northern Europe. The Counter-Reformation was already imminent.
It must not be imagined that so great a change as that implied by the Renaissance wT as accomplished without premonitory symptoms and previous endeavours. In the • main we mean by it the recovery of freedom for the human spirit after a long period of bondage to oppressive ecclesiastical and political orthodoxy,—a return to the liberal and practical conceptions of the world which the nations of antiquity had enjoyed, but upon a new and enlarged platform. This being so, it was inevitable that the finally successful efforts after self-emancipation should have been anticipated from time to time by strivings within the ages that are known as dark and mediaeval. It is therefore part of the present inquiry to pass in review some of the claimants to be considered precursors of the Renaissance. First of all must be named the Frank in whose lifetime the dual conception of universal empireand universal church, divinely appointed, sacred, and inviolable, began to control the order of European society. Charles the Great lent his forces to the plan of resuscitating the Roman empire at a moment when his own power made him the arbiter of western Europe, when the papacy needed his alliance, and when the Eastern empire had passed ·under the usurped regency of a female. He modelled a spurious Roman empire, which was surnamed “Holy,” in consequence of the diplomatic contract struck by him with the bishop of Rome, and in obedience to the prevailing theological beliefs of Latin Christianity. The Holy so-called Roman but essentially Teutonic empire owed such substance as the fabric possessed to Frankish armies and the sinews of the German people. As a structure composed of divers ill-connected parts it fell to pieces at its builder’s death, leaving little but the incubus of a memory, the fascination of a mighty name, to dominate the mind of mediaeval Europe. As an idea, the empire grew in visionary power, and remained one of the cliief obstacles in the way of both Italian and German national coherence. Real force was not in it, but rather in that
counterpart to its unlimited pretensions, the church, which had evolved it from barbarian night, and which used her own more vital energies for undermining the rival of her creation. Charles the Great, having proclaimed himself successor of the Csesars, was obscurely ambitious of imitating the August! also in the sphere of letters. He caused a scheme of humanistic education to be formulated, and gave employment at his court to rhetoricians, of whom Alcuin was the most considerable. But very little came of the revival of learning which Charles is supposed to have encouraged; and the empire he restored was accepted by the mediaeval intellect in a crudely theological and vaguely mystical spirit. We should, however, here remember that the study of Roman law, which was one important precursory symptom of the Renaissance, owed much to mediaeval respect for the empire as a divine institution. This, together with the municipal Italian intolerance of the Lombard and Frankish codes, kept alive the practice and revived the science of Latin jurisprudence at an early period.
Philosophy attempted to free itself from the trammels s of theological orthodoxy in the hardy speculations of1  some schoolmen, notably of Scotus Erigena and Abelard. | These innovators found, however, small support, and were j defeated by opponents who used the same logical weapons with authority to back them. Nor were the rationalistic opinions of the Averroists without their value, though the church condemned these deviators from her discipline as heretics. Such mediteval materialists, moreover, had but feeble hold upon the substance of real knowledge. Imperfect acquaintance with authors whom they studied in Latin translations made by Jews from Arabic commentaries on Greek texts, together with almost total ignorance of natural laws, condemned them to sterility. Like the other schiomachists of their epoch, they fought with phantoms in a visionary realm. A similar judgment may be passed upon those Paulician, Albigensian, Paterine, and Epicurean dissenters from the Catholic creed who opposed the phalanxes of orthodoxy with frail imaginative weapons, and alarmed established orders in the state by the audacity of their communistic opinions. Physical science struggled into feeble life in the cells of Gerbert and Roger Bacon. But these men were accounted magicians by the vulgar; and, while the one eventually assumed the tiara, the other was incarcerated in a dungeon. The schools meanwhile resounded still to the interminable dispute upon abstractions. Are onlyuniversals real, or has each name a corresponding entity? From the midst of the Franciscans who had persecuted Roger Bacon because he presumed to know more than was consistent with human humility arose John of Parma, adopting and popularizing the mystic prophecy of Joachim of Flora. The reign of the Father is past; the reign of the Son is passing; the reign of the Spirit is at hand. Such was the formula of the Eternal Gospel, which, as an unconscious forecast of the Renaissance, has attracted retrospective students by its felicity of adaptation to their historical method. Yet we must remember that this bold intuition of the abbot Joachim indicated a monastic reaction against the tyrannies and corruptions of the church, rather than a fertile philosophical conception. The Fraticelli spiritualists, and similar sects who fed their imagination with his doctrine, expired in the flames to which Fra Dolcino, Longino,and Margharitawere consigned. To what extent the accusations of profligate morals brought against these reforming sectarians were justified remains doubtful; and the same uncertainty rests upon the alleged iniquities of the Templars. It is only certain that at this epoch the fabric of Catholic faith was threatened with various forms of prophetic and Oriental
mysticism, symptomatic of a widespread desire to grasp at something simpler, purer, and less rigid than Latin theology afforded. Devoid of criticism, devoid of sound learning, devoid of a firm hold on the realities of life, these heresies passed away without solid results and were forgotten.
We are too apt to take for granted that the men of the Middle Ages were immersed in meditations on the other 1 world, and that their intellectual exercises were confined to , abstractions of the schools, hallucinations of the fancy, allegories, visions. This assumption applies indeed in a broad sense to that period which was dominated by intolerant theology and deprived of positive knowledge. Yet there are abundant signs that the native human instincts, the natural human appetites, remained unaltered and alive beneath the crust of orthodoxy. In the person of a pope like Boniface VIII. those ineradicable forces of the natural man assumed, if we may trust the depositions of ecclesiastics well acquainted with his life, a form of brutal atheistic cynicism. In the person of an emperor, Frederick IL, they emerged under the more agreeable garb of liberal culture and Epicurean scepticism. Frederick dreamed of remodelling society upon a mundane type, which anticipated the large toleration and cosmopolitan enlightenment of the actual Renaissance. But his efforts were defeated by the unrelenting hostility of the church, and by the incapacity of his contemporaries to understand his aims. After being forced in his lifetime to submit to authority, he was consigned by Dante to hell. Frederick’s ideal of civilization was derived in a large measure from Provence, where a beautiful culture had prematurely bloomed, filling southern Europe with the perfume of poetry and gentle living. Here, if anywhere, it seemed as though the ecclesiastical and feudal fetters of the Middle Ages might be broken, and humanity might enter on a new stage of joyous unimpeded evolution. This was, however, not to be. The church preached Simon de Montfort’s crusade, and organized Dominic’s Inquisition; what Quinet calls the “Renaissance sociale par 1’Amour ” was extirpated by sword, fire, famine, and pestilence. Meanwhile the Provençal poets had developed their modern language with incomparable richness and dexterity, creating forms of verse and modes of emotional expression which determined the latest mediaeval phase of literature in Europe. The naturalism of which we have been speaking found free utterance now in the fabliaux of jongleurs, lyrics of minnesingers, tales of trouvères, romances of Arthur and his knights,—compositions varied in type and tone, but in all of which sincere passion and real enjoyment of life pierce through the thin veil of chivalrous mysticism or of allegory with which they were sometimes conventionally draped. The tales of Lancelot and Tristram, the lives of the troubadours and the Wachtlieder of the minnesingers, sufficiently prove with what sensual freedom a knight loved the lady whom custom and art made him profess to worship as a saint. We do not need to be reminded that Beatrice’s adorer had a wife and children, or that Laura’s poet owned a son and daughter by a concubine, in order to perceive that the mystic passion of chivalry was compatible in the Middle Ages with commonplace matrimony or vulgar illegitimate connexions. But perhaps the most convincing testimony to the presence of this ineradicable naturalism is afforded by the Latin songs of wandering 3 students, known as Carmina Burana, written by the self-styled Goliardi. In these compositions, remarkable for their facile handling of mediaeval Latin rhymes and rhythms, the allegorizing mysticism wdiich envelops chivalrous poetry is discarded. Love is treated from a frankly carnal point of view. Bacchus and Venus go hand in hand, as in the ancient ante-Christian age. The open-air enjoyments of the wood, the field, the dance upon the village green, are sung wr ith juvenile lightheartedness. No grave note, warning us that the pleasures of this earth are fleeting, that the visible world is but a symbol of the invisible, that human life is a probation for the life beyond, interrupts the tinkling music as of castanets and tripping feet which gives a novel charm to these unique relics of the 13th century. Goliardic poetry is further curious as showing how the classics even at that early period were a fountainhead of pagan inspiration. In the taverns and low places of amusement haunted by those lettered songsters, on the open road and in the forests trodden by their vagrant feet, the deities of Greece and Rome were not in exile, but at home within the hearts of living men. Thus, while Christendom was still ]ireoccupied with the crusades, two main forces of the Renaissance, naturalism and enthusiasm for antique modes of feeling, already brought their latent potency to light, prematurely indeed and precociously, yet with a promise that was destined to be kept.
When due regard is paid to these miscellaneous evidences of intellectual and sensual freedom during the Middle Ages, it will be seen that there were by no means lacking elements of native vigour ready to burst forth. What was wanting wr as not vitality and licence, not audacity of speculation, not lawless instinct or rebellious impulse. It was rather the right touch on life, the right feeling for human independence, the right way of approaching the materials of philosophy, religion, scholarship, and literature, that failed. The courage that is born of knowledge, the calm strength begotten by a positive attitude of mind, face to face with the dominant overshadowing Sphinx of theology, were lacking. We may fairly say that natural and untaught people had more of the just intuition that was needed than learned folk trained in the schools. But these people were rendered licentious in revolt or impotent for salutary action by ignorance, by terror, by uneasy dread of the doom declared for heretics and rebels. The massive vengeance of the church hung over them, like a heavy sword suspended in the cloudy air. Superstition and stupidity hedged them in on every side, so that sorcery and magic seemed the only means of winning power over nature or insight into mysteries surrounding human life. The path from darkness to light was lost; thought w׳as involved in allegory ; the study of nature had been perverted into an inept system of grotesque and pious parable-mongering; the pursuit of truth had become a game of wordy dialectics. The other world with its imagined heaven and hell haunted the conscience like a nightmare. However sweet this world seemed, however fair the flesh, both world and flesh were theoretically given over to the devil. It was not worth while to master and economize the resources of this earth, to utilize the goods and ameliorate the evils of this life, while every one agreed, in theory at any rate, that the present was but a bad prelude to an infinitely worse or infinitely better future. To escape from these preoccupations and prejudices except upon the path of conscious and deliberate sin was impossible for all but minds of rarest quality and courage; and these were too often reduced to the recantation of their supposed errors no less by some secret clinging sense of guilt than by the church’s iron hand. Man and the actual universe kept on reasserting their rights and claims, announcing their goodliness and delightfulness, in one way or another ; but they were always being thrust back again into Cimmerian regions of abstractions, fictions, visions, spectral hopes and fears, in the midst of which the intellect somnambulistically moved upon an unknown way.
It is just at tliis point that the Revival of Learning intervened to determine the course of the Renaissance. Medieval students possessed a considerable portion of the Latin ' classics, though Greek had become in the fullest sense of the phrase a dead language. Rut what they retained of ancient literature they could not comprehend in the right spirit. Between them and the text of poet or historian hung a veil of mysticism, a vapour of misapprehension. The odour of unsanctity clung around those relics of the pagan past. Men bred in the cloister and the lecture-room of the logicians, trained in scholastic disputations, versed in allegorical interpretations of the plainest words and most apparent facts, could not find the key which might unlock those stores of wisdom and of beauty. Petrarch first opened a new method in scholarship, and revealed what we denote as humanism. In his teaching lay the twofold discovery of man and of the world. For humanism, which was the vital element in the Revival of Learning, consists mainly of a just perception of the dignity of man as a rational, volitional, and sentient being, born upon this earth with a right to use it and enjoy it. Humanism implied the rejection of those visions of a future and imagined state of souls as the only absolute reality, which had fascinated the imagination of the Middle Ages. It involved a vivid recognition of the goodliness of man and nature, displayed in the great monuments of human power recovered from the past. It stimulated the curiosity of latent sensibilities, provoked fresh inquisition into the groundwork of existence, and strengthened man’s selfesteem by knowledge of what men had thought and felt and done in ages when Christianity was not. It roused a desire to reappropriate the whole abandoned provinces of mundane energy, and a hope to emulate antiquity in works of living loveliness and vigour. The Italians of the 14th century, more precocious than the other European races, were ripe for this emancipation of enslaved intelligence. In the classics they found the food which was required to nourish the new spirit; and a variety of circumstances, among which must be reckoned the pride of a nation boasting of its descent from the Populus Romanus, rendered them apt to fling aside the obstacles that had impeded the free action of the mind through many centuries. Petrarch not only set his countrymen upon the right method of studying the Latin classics, but he also divined the importance of recovering a knowledge of Greek literature. To this task Boccaccio addressed himself; and he was followed by numerous Italian enthusiasts, who visited Byzantium before its fall as the sacred city of a new revelation. The next step was to collect MSS., to hunt out, copy, and preserve the precious relics of the past. In this work of accumulation Guarino and Filelfo, Aurispa and Poggio, took the chief part, aided by the wealth of Italian patricians, merchant-princes, and despots, who were inspired by the sacred thirst for learning. Learning was then no mere pursuit of a special and recluse class. It was fashionable and it was passionate, pervading all society with the fervour of romance. For a generation nursed in decadent scholasticism and stereotyped theological formulae it was the fountain of renascent youth, beauty, and freedom, the shape in which the Helen of art and poetry appeared to the ravished eyes of mediaeval Faustus. It was the resurrection of the mightiest spirits of the past. “I go,” said Cyriac of Ancona, the indefatigable though uncritical explorer of antiquities, “I go to awake the dead ! ” This was the enthusiasm, this the vitalizing faith, which made the work of scholarship in the 15th century so highly strung and ardent. The men who followed it knew that they wr ere restoring humanity to its birthright after the expatriation of ten centuries. They were instinctively aware that the effort was for liberty of action,
thought, and conscience in the future. This conviction made young men leave their loves and pleasures, grave men quit their counting-houses, churchmen desert their missals, to crowd the lecture rooms of philologers and rhetoricians. When Greek had been acquired, !MSS. accumulated, libraries and museums formed, came the age of printers and expositors. Aldus Manutius in Italy, Froben in Basel, the Etiennes in Paris, committed to the press what the investigators had recovered. Nor were there wanting at the same time men who dedicated their powers to Hebrew and Oriental erudition, laying, together with the Grecians, a basis for those Biblical studies which advanced the Reformation. Meanwhile the languages of Greece and Rome had been so thoroughly appropriated that a final race of scholars, headed by Politian, Pontano, Valla, handled once again in verse and prose both antique dialects, and thrilled the ears of Europe with new-made pagan melodies. The church itself at this epoch lent its influence to the prevalent enthusiasm. Nicholas 'V. and Leo X., not to mention intervening popes who showed themselves tolerant of humanistic culture, were heroes of the classical revival. Scholarship became the surest path of advancement to ecclesiastical and political honours. Italy was one great school of the new learning at the moment when the German, French, and Spanish nations were invited to her feast.
It will be well to describe briefly, but in detail, what! this meeting of the modern with the ancient mind effected 1  over the whole field of intellectual interests. In doing ! so, we must be careful to remember that the study of the classics did but give a special impulse to pent-up energies which were bound in one way or another to assert their independence. Without the Revival of Learning the direction of those forces would have been different; but that novel intuition into the nature of the world and man which constitutes what we describe as Renaissance must have emerged. As the facts, however, stand before us, it is impossible to dissociate the rejection of the other world as the sole reality, the joyous acceptance of this world as a place to live and act in, the conviction that “ the proper study of mankind is man,” from humanism. Humanism, as it actually appeared in Italy, was positive in its conception of the problems to be solved, pagan in its contempt for mediaeval mysticism, invigorated for sensuous enjoyment by contact with antiquity, yet holding in itself the germ of new religious aspirations, profounder science, and sterner probings of the mysteries of life than had been attempted even by the ancients. The operation of this humanistic spirit has now to be traced.
It is obvious that Italian literature owed little at the outset to the revival of learning. The Divine Comedy,1  the Canzoniere, and the Decameron were works of monumental art, deriving neither form nor inspiration imme-, diately from the classics, but applying the originality of Italian genius to matter drawn from previous mediaeval sources. Dante showed both in his epic poem and in his lyrics that he had not abandoned the sphere of contemporary thought. Allegory and theology, the vision and the symbol, still determine the form of masterpieces which for perfection of workmanship and for emancipated force of intellect rank among the highest products of the human mind. Yet they are not mediaeval in the same sense as the song of Roland or the Arthurian cycle. They proved that, though Italy came late into the realm of literature, her action was destined to be decisive and alterative by the introduction of a new spirit, a firmer and more positive grasp on life and art. These qualities she owed to her material prosperity, to her freedom from feudalism, to her secularized church, her commercial nobility, her political independence in a federation of small states. Petrarch
and Boccaccio, though they both held the mediaeval doctrine that literature should teach some abstruse truth beneath a veil of fiction, differed from Dante ·in this that their poetry and prose in the vernacular abandoned both allegory and symbol. In their practice they ignored their theory. Petrarch’s lyrics continue the Provençal tradition as it had been reformed in Tuscany, with a subtler and more modern analysis of emotion, a purer and more chastened style, than his masters could boast. Boccaccio’s tales, in like manner, continue the tradition of the fabliaux, raising that literary species to the rank of finished art, enriching it with humour, and strengthening its substance by keen insight into all varieties of character. The Canzoniere and the Decameron distinguish themselves from mediaeval literature, not by any return to classical precedents, but by free self-conscious handling of human nature. So much had to be premised in order to make it clear in what relation humanism stood to the Renaissance, since the Italian work of Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio is sufficient to indicate the re-birth of the spirit after ages of apparent deadness. Had the Revival of Learning not intervened it is probable that the vigorous efforts of these writers alone would have inaugurated a new age of European culture. Yet, while noting this reservation of judgment, it must also be remarked that all three felt themselves under some peculiar obligation to the classics. Dante, mediaeval as his temper seems to us, chose Virgil for his guide, and ascribed his mastery of style to the study of Virgilian poetry. Petrarch and Boccaccio were, as we have seen, the pioneers of the new learning. They held their writings in the vernacular cheap, and initiated that contempt for the mother tongue which was a note of the earlier Renaissance. It may further be observed that Giovanni Villani, the first chronicler who used Italian for the compilation of a methodical history, tells us how he was impelled to write by musing on the ruins of Rome and thinking of the vanished greatness of the Latin race. We have therefore to recognize this fact that the four greatest writers of the 14th century, while the Revival of Learning was yet in its cradle, each after his own fashion acknowledged the vivifying touch upon their spirit of the antique genius. They seem to have been conscious that they could not give the desired impulse to modern literature and art without contact with the classics; and, in spite of the splendour of their achievements in Italian, they found no immediate followers upon that path.
! The fascination of pure study was so powerful, the Italians at that epoch were so eager to recover the past, ’that during the 15th century we have before our eyes ! the spectacle of this great nation deviating from the course of development begun in poetry by Dante and Petrarch, in prose by Boccaccio and Villani, into the channels of scholarship and antiquarian research. The language of the Canzoniere and Decameron was abandoned for revived Latin and discovered Greek. Acquisition supplanted invention ; imitation of classical authors suppressed originality of style. The energies of the Italian people were devoted to transcribing codices, settling texts, translating Greek books into Latin, compiling grammars, commentaries, encyclopædias, dictionaries, epitomes, and epliemerides. During this century the best histories—Bruno’s and Poggio’s annals of Florence, for example—were composed in Latin after the manner of Livy. The best dissertations, Landino’s Camaldunenses, Valla’s De Voluptate, were laboured imitations of Cicero’s Tusculans. The best verses, Pontano’s elegies, Politian’s hexameters, were in like manner Latin ; public orations upon ceremonial occasions were delivered in the Latin tongue ; correspondence, official and familiar, was carried on in the same language ; even the fabliaux received, in Poggio’s Facetiae, a dress of elegant
Latinity. The noticeable barrenness of Italian literature at this period is referable to the fact that men of genius and talent devoted themselves to erudition and struggled to express their thoughts and feelings in a speech which was not natural. Yet they were engaged in a work of incalculable importance. At the close of the century the knowledge of Greece and Rome had been reappropriated and placed beyond the possibility of destruction; the chasm between the old and new world had been bridged; mediaeval modes of thinking and discussing had been superseded; the staple of education, the common culture which has brought all Europe into intellectual agreement, was already in existence. Humanism was now an actuality. Owing to the uncritical veneration for antiquity which then prevailed, it had received a strong tincture of pedantry. Its professors, in their revolt against the Middle Ages, made light of Christianity and paraded paganism. What was even worse from an artistic point of view, they had contracted puerilities of style, vanities of rhetoric, stupidities of wearisome citation. Still, at the opening of the 16th century, it became manifest what fruits of noble quality the Revival of Letters was about to bring forth for modern literature. Two great scholars, Lorenzo de’ Medici and Politian, had already returned to the practice of Italian poetry. Their work is the first absolutely modern work,—modern in the sense of having absorbed the stores of classic learning and reproduced those treasures in forms of simple, natural, native beauty. Boiardo occupies a similar position by the fusion of classic mythology with chivalrous romance in his Orlando Innamorato. But the victor’s laurels were reserved for Ariosto, whose Orlando Furioso is the purest and most perfect extant example of Renaissance poetry. It was not merely in what they had acquired and assimilated from the classics that these poets showed the transformation effected in the field of literature by humanism. The whole method and spirit of mediaeval art had been abandoned. That of the Cinque Cento is positive, defined, mundane. The deity, if deity there be, that rules in it, is beauty. Interest is confined to the actions, passions, sufferings, and joys of human life, to its pathetic, tragic, humorous, and sentimental incidents. Of the state of souls beyond the grave we hear and are supposed to care nothing. In the drama the pedantry of the Revival, which had not injured romantic literature, made itself perniciously felt. Rules were collected from Horace and Aristotle. Seneca was chosen as the model of tragedy; Plautus and Terence supplied the groundwork of comedy. Thus in the plays of Rucellai, Trissino, Sperone, and other tragic poets, the nobler elements of humanism, considered as a revelation of the world and man, obtained no free development. Even the comedies of the best authors are too observant of Latin precedents, although some pieces of Macliiavelli, Ariosto, Aretino, Cecclii, and Gelli are admirable for vivid delineation of contemporary manners.
The relation of the plastic arts to the revival of learning is similar to that which has been sketched in the case of poetry. Cimabue started with work which owed nothing directly to antiquity. At about the same time Niccola Pisano studied the style of sculpture in fragments of Graeco-Roman marbles. His manner influenced Giotto, who set painting on a forward path. Fortunately for the unimpeded expansion of Italian art, little was brought to light of antique workmanship during the 14th and 15th centuries. The classical stimulus came to painters, sculptors, and architects chiefly through literature. Therefore there was narrow scope for imitation, and the right spirit of humanism displayed itself in a passionate study of perspective, nature, and the nude. Yet we find in the writings of Ghiberti and Alberti, we notice in the master
pieces of these men and their compeers Brunelleschi and Donatello, how even in the 15th century the minds of artists were fascinated by what survived of classic grace and science. Gradually, as the race became penetrated with antique thought, the earlier Christian motives of the arts yielded to pagan subjects. Gothic architecture, which had always flourished feebly on Italian soil, was supplanted by a hybrid Roman style. The study of Vitruvius gave strong support to that pseudo-classic manner which, when it had reached its final point in Palladio’s work, overspread the whole of Europe and dominated taste during two centuries. But the perfect plastic art of Italy, the pure art of the Cinque Cento, the painting of Raphael, Da Vinci, Titian, and Correggio, the sculpture of Donatello, Michelangelo, and Sansovino, the architecture of Bra-man te, Omodco, and the Venetian Lombardi, however much imbued with the spirit of the classical revival, takes rank beside the poetry of Ariosto as a free intelligent product of the Renaissance. That is to say, it is not so much an outcome of studies in antiquity as an exhibition of emancipated modern genius fired and illuminated by the masterpieces of the past. It indicates a separation from the Middle Ages, inasmuch as it is permanently natural. Its religion is joyous, sensuous, dramatic, terrible, but in each and all of its many-sided manifestations strictly human. Its touch on classical mythology is original, rarely imitative or pedantic. The art of the Renaissance was an apocalypse of the beauty of the world and man in unaffected spontaneity, without side thoughts for piety or erudition, inspired by pure delight in loveliness and harmony for their own sakes.
In the fields of science and philosophy humanism wrought ' similar important changes. Petrarch began by waging relentless war against the logicians and materialists of his own day. "With the advance made in Greek studies scholastic methods of thinking fell into contemptuous oblivion. The newly aroused curiosity for nature encouraged men like Alberti, Da Vinci, Toscanelli, and Da Porta to make practical experiments, penetrate the working of physical forces, and invent scientific instruments. Anatomy began to be studied, and the time wr as not far distant when Titian should lend his pencil to the epoch-making treatise of Vesalius. The Middle Ages had been satisfied with absurd and visionary notions about the world around them, while the body of man was regarded with too much suspicion to be studied. Now the right method of interrogating nature with patience and loving admiration was instituted. At the same time the texts of ancient authors supplied hints which led to discoveries so far-reaching in their results as those of Copernicus, Columbus, and Galileo. In philosophy, properly so-called, the humanistic scorn for mediaeval dulness and obscurity swept away theological metaphysics as valueless. But at first little beyond empty rhetoric and clumsy compilation was substituted. The ethical treatises of the scholars are deficient in substance, while Ficino’s attempt to revive Platonism betrays an uncritical conception of his master’s drift. It was something, however, to have shaken off the shackles of ecclesiastical authority ; and, even if a new authority, that of the ancients, was accepted in its stead, still progress was being made toward sounder methods of analysis. This is noticeable in Pomponazzo’s system of materialism, based on the interpretation of Aristotle, but revealing a virile spirit of disinterested and unprejudiced research. The thinkers of southern Italy, Telesio, Bruno, and Campanella, at last opened the two chief lines on which modern speculation has since moved. Telesio and Campanella may be termed the predecessors of Bacon. Bruno was the precursor of the idealistic schools. All three alike strove to disengage their minds from classical as well as ecclesiastical authority,
proving that the emancipation of the will had been accomplished. It must be added that their writings, like every other product of the Renaissance, except its purest poetry and art, exhibit a hybrid between mediaeval arid modern tendencies. Childish ineptitudes are mingled with intuitions of maturcst wisdom, and seeds of future thought germinate in the decaying refuse of past systems.
Humanism in its earliest stages was uncritical. It absorbed the relics of antiquity with omnivorous appetite, and with very imperfect sense of the distinction between worse and better work. Yet it led in process of time to criticism. The critique of literature began in the lecture room of Politian, in the printing-house of Aldus, and in the school of Vittorino. The critique of Roman law started, under Politian’s auspices, upon a more liberal course than that which had been followed by the powerful but narrow-sighted glossators of Bologna. Finally, in the court of Naples arose that most formidable of all critical engines, the critique of established ecclesiastical traditions and spurious historical documents. Valla by one vigorous effort destroyed the False Decretals and exposed the Donation of Constantine to ridicule, paving the way for the polemic carried on against the dubious pretensions of the papal throne by scholars of the Reformation. A similar criticism, conducted less on lines of erudition than of persiflage and irony, ransacked the moral abuses of the church and played around the very foundations of Christianity. This was tolerated with approval by men who repeated Leo X.’s witty epigram: “What profit has not that fable of Christ brought us ! ” The same critical and philosophic spirit working on the materials of history produced a new science, the honours of which belong to Machiavelli. He showed, on the one side, how the history of a people can be written with a recognition of fixed principles, and at the same time with an artistic feeling for personal and dramatic episodes. On the other side, he addressed himself to the analysis of man considered as a political being, to the anatomy of constitutions and the classification of governments, to the study of motives underlying public action, the secrets of success and the causes of failure in the conduct of affairs. The unscrupulous rigour with which he applied his scientific method, and the sinister deductions he thought himself justified in drawing from the results it yielded, excited terror and repulsion. Nevertheless, a department had been added to the intellectual empire of mankind, in which fellow-workers, like Guicciardini at Florence, and subsequently Sarpi at Venice, were not slow to follow the path traced by Machiavelli.
The object of the foregoing paragraphs has been to show in what way the positive, inquisitive, secular, exploratory spirit of the Renaissance, when toned and controlled by humanism, ¡penetrated the regions of literature, art, philosophy, and science. It becomes at this point of much moment to consider how social manners in Italy were modified by the same causes, since the type developed there was in large measure communicated together with the new culture to the rest of Europe. The first subject to be noticed under this heading is education. What has come to be called a classical education was the immediate product of the Italian Renaissance. The universities of Bologna, Padua, and Salerno had been famous through the Middle Ages for the study of law, physics, and medicine; and during the 15th and 16th centuries the two first still enjoyed celebrity in those faculties. But at this period no lecture-rooms were so crowded as those in which professors of antique literature and language read passages from the poets and orators, taught Greek, and commented upon the systems of philosophers. The mediaeval curriculum offered no defined place for the new learning of the Revival, which I had indeed no recognized name. Chairs had therefore to
be founded under the title of rhetoric, from which men like Chrysoloras and Guarino, Filelfo and Politian, expounded orally to hundreds of eager students from every town of Italy and every nation in Europe their accumulated knowledge of antiquity. One mass of Greek and Roman erudition, including history and metaphysics, law and science, civic institutions and the art of war, mythology and magistracies, metrical systems and oratory, agriculture and astronomy, domestic manners and religious rites, grammar and philology, biography and numismatics, formed the miscellaneous subject matter of this so-styled rhetoric. Notes taken at these lectures supplied· young scholars ־with hints for further exploration; and a certain tradition of treating antique authors for the display of general learning, as well as for the elucidation of their texts, came into vogue, which has determined the method of scholarship for the last three centuries in Europe. The lack of printed books in the first period of the Revival, and the comparative rarity of Greek erudition among students, combined with the intense enthusiasm aroused for the new gospel of the classics, gave special value to the personal teaching of these professors. They journeyed from city to city, attracted by promises of higher pay, and allured by ever-growing laurels of popular fame. Each large town established its public study, academy, or university, similar institutions under varying designations, for the exposition of the litterse humaniores. The humanists, or professors of that branch of knowledge, became a class of the highest dignity. They were found in the chanceries of the republics, in the papal curia, in the council chambers of princes, at the headquarters of condottieri, wherever business had to be transacted, speeches to be made, and the work of secretaries to be performed. Furthermore, they undertook the charge of private education, opening schools which displaced the mediaeval system of instruction, and taking engagements as tutors in the families of despots, noblemen, and wealthy merchants. The academy established by Yittorino da Feltre at Mantua under the protection of Gian Francesco Gonzaga for the training of pupils of both sexes, might be chosen as the type of this Italian method. His scholars, who were lodged in appropriate buildings, met daily to hear the master read and comment on the classics. They learned portions of the best authors by heart, exercised themselves in translation from one language to another, and practised composition in prose and verse. It was Yittorino’s care to see that, while their memories were duly stored ־with words and facts, their judgment should be formed by critical analysis, attention to style, and comparison of the authors of a decadent age with those who were acknowledged classics. During the hours of recreation suitable physical exercises, as fencing, riding, and gymnastics, were conducted under qualified trainers. From this sketch it will be seen how closely the educational system which came into England during the reigns of the Tudors, and which has prevailed until the present time, was modelled upon the Italian type. English youths who spend their time at Eton between athletic sports and Latin verses, and who take an Ireland with a first class in “ Greats ” at Oxford, are pursuing the same course of physical and mental discipline as the princes of Gonzaga or Montefeltro in the 15 th century.
1 The humanists effected a deeply penetrating change
;· in social manners. Through their influence as tutors, professors, orators, and courtiers, society was permeated by a fresh ideal of culture. To be a gentleman in Italy meant at this epoch to be a man acquainted with the rudiments at least of scholarship, refined in diction, capable of corresponding or of speaking in choice phrasesj open to the beauty of the arts, intelligently interested in archaeology, taking for his models of conduct the great men of antiquity rather than the saints of the church. He was also expected to prove himself an adept in physical exercises and in the courteous observances which survived from chivalry. The type is set before us by Castiglione in that book upon the courtier which went the round of Europe in the 16 th century. It is further emphasized in a famous passage of the Orlando Innamorato where Boiardo compares the Italian ideal of an accomplished gentleman with the coarser type admired by nations of the north. To this point the awakened intelligence of the Renaissance, instructed by humanism, polished by the fine arts, expanding in genial conditions of diffused wealth, had brought the Italians at a period when the rest of Europe was comparatively barbarous.
This picture has undoubtedly a darker side. Humanism, in its revolt against the Middle Ages, was, as we have seen already, mundane, pagan, irreligious, positive. The Renaissance can, after all, be regarded only as a period of transition, in which much of the good of the past was sacrificed while some of the evil was retained, and neither the bad nor the good of the future was brought clearly into fact. Beneath the surface of brilliant social culture lurked gross appetites and savage passions, unrestrained by mediaeval piety, untutored by modern experience. Italian society exhibited an almost unexampled spectacle of literary, artistic, and courtly refinement crossed by brutalities of lust, treasons, poisonings, assassinations, violence. A succession of worldly pontiffs brought the church into flagrant discord with the principles of Christianity. Steeped in pagan learning, emulous of imitating the manners of the ancients, used to think and feel in harmony with Ovid and Theocritus, and at the same time rendered cynical by the corruption of papal Rome, the educated classes lost their grasp upon morality. Political honesty ceased almost to have a name in Italy. The Christian virtues were scorned by the foremost actors and the ablest thinkers of the time, while the antique virtues were themes for rhetoric rather than moving-springs of conduct. This is apparent to all students of Machiavelli and Guicciardini, the profoundest analysts of their age, the bitterest satirists of its vices, but themselves infected with its incapacity for moral goodness. Not only were the Italians vitiated; but they had also become impotent for action and resistance. At the height of the Renaissance the five great powers in the peninsula formed a confederation of independent but mutually attractive and repellent states. Equilibrium was maintained by diplomacy, in which the humanists played a foremost part, casting a network of intrigue over the nation which helped in no small measure to stimulate intelligence and create a common medium of culture, but which accustomed statesmen to believe that everything could be achieved by wire-pulling. Wars were conducted on a showy system by means of mercenaries, who played a safe game in the field and developed a system of bloodless campaigns. Meanwhile the people grew up unused to arms. When Italy between the years 1494 and 1530 became the battlefield of French, German, and Spanish forces, it was seen to what a point of helplessness the political, moral, and social conditions of the Renaissance had brought the nation.
It was needful to study at some length the main phenomena of the Renaissance in Italy, because the history of that phase of evolution in the other Western races turns almost entirely upon points in which they either adhered to or diverged from the type established there. Speaking broadly, what France, Germany, Spain, and England assimilated from Italy at this epoch was in the first place the new learning, as it was then called. This implied the
new conception of human life, the new interest in the material universe, the new method of education, and the new manners, which we have seen to be inseparable from Italian humanism. Under these forms of intellectual eulightenment and polite culture the renascence of the human spirit had appeared in Italy, where it was more than elsewhere connected with the study of classical antiquity. But that audacious exploratory energy which formed the motive force of the Renaissance as distinguished from the Revival of Learning took, as we shall see, very different directions in the several nations who now were sending the flower of their youth to study at the feet of Italian rhetoricians.
The Renaissance ran its course in Italy with strange indifference to consequences. The five great powers, held in equilibrium by Lorenzo de’ Medici, dreamed that the peninsula could be maintained in statu quo by diplomacy. The church saw no danger in encouraging a pseudopagan ideal of life, violating its own principle of existence by assuming the policy of an aggrandizing secular state, and outraging Christendom openly by its acts and utterances. Society at large was hardly aware that an intellectual force of stupendous magnitude and incalculable explosive power had been created by the new learning. Why should not established institutions proceed upon the customary and convenient methods of routine, while the delights of existence were augmented, manners polished, arts developed, and a golden age of epicurean ease made decent by a state religion which no one cared to break with because no one was left to regard it seriously ? This was the attitude of the Italians when the Renaissance, which they had initiated as a thing of beauty, began to operate as a thing of power beyond the Alps.
Germany was already provided with universities, seven of which had been founded between 1348 and 1409. In these haunts of learning the new studies took root ' after the year 1440, chiefly through the influence of travelling professors, Peter Luder and Samuel Karoch. German scholars made their way to Lombard and Tuscan lecture-rooms, bringing back the methods of the humanists. Greek, Latin, and Hebrew erudition soon found itself at home on Teutonic soil. Like Italian men of letters, these pioneers of humanism gave a classic turn to their patronymics; unfamiliar names, Crotus Rubeanus and Pierius Grsecus, Capnion and Lupambulus Ganymedes, GScolampadius and Melanchthon, resounded on the Rhine. A few of the German princes, among whom Maximilian, the prince cardinal Albert of Mainz, Frederick the Wise of Saxony, and Eberhard of Wiirtemberg deserve mention, exercised a not insignificant influence on letters by the foundation of new universities and the patronage of learned men. The cities of Strasburg, Nuremberg, Augsburg, Basel, became centres of learned coteries, which gathered round scholars like Wimpheling, Brant, Peutinger, Schedel, and Pirckheimer, artists like Dürer and Holbein, printers of the eminence of Froben. Academies in imitation of Italian institutions came into existence, the two most conspicuous, named after the Rhine and Danube, holding their headquarters respectively at Heidelberg and Vienna. Crowned poets, of whom the most eminent was Conrad Geltes Protucius (Pickel!), emulated the fame of Politian and Pontano. Yet, though the Renaissance was thus widely communicated to the centres of German intelligence, it displayed a different character from that which it assumed in Italy. Gothic art, which was indigenous in Germany, yielded but little to southern influences. Such work as that of Dürer, Yischer, Cranach, Schöngauer, Holbein, consummate as it was in technical excellence, did not assume Italian forms of loveliness, did not display the paganism of the Latin races. The modi
fication of Gothic architecture by pseudo-Roman elements of style was incomplete. What Germany afterwards took of the Palladian manner was destined to reach it on a circuitous route from France. In like manner the new learning failed to penetrate all classes of society with the rapidity of its expansion in Italy, nor was the new ideal of life and customs so easily substituted for the mediaeval. The German aristocracy, as AEneas Sylvius had noticed, remained for the most part barbarous, addicted to gross pleasures, contemptuous of culture. The German dialects were too rough to receive that artistic elaboration under antique influences which had been so facile in Tuscany. The doctors of the universities were too wedded to their antiquated manuals and methods, too satisfied with dulness,, too proud of titles and diplomas, too anxious to preserve ecclesiastical discipline and to repress mental activity, for a genial spirit of humanism to spread freely. Not in Cologne or Tübingen but in Padua and Florence did the German pioneers of the Renaissance acquire their sense of liberal studies. And when they returned home they found themselves encumbered with stupidities, jealousies, and rancours. Moreover, the temper of these more enlightened men was itself opposed to Italian indifference and immorality ; it was pugnacious and polemical, eager to beat down the arrogance of monks and theologians rather than to pursue an ideal of sesthetical self-culture. To a student of the origins of German humanism it is clear that something very different from the Renaissance of Lorenzo de’ Medici and Leo X. was in preparation from the first upon Teutonic soil. Far less plastic and form-loving than the Italian, the German intelligence was more penetrative, earnest, disputative, occupied with substantial problems. Starting with theological criticism, proceeding to the stage of solid studies in the three learned languages, German humanism occupied the attention of a widely scattered sect of erudite scholars; but it did not arouse the interest of the whole nation until it was forced into a violently militant attitude by Pfefferkorn’s attack on Reuchlin. That attempt to extinguish honest thought prepared the Reformation; and humanism after 1518 was absorbed in politico-religious warfare.
The point of contact between humanism and the Reformation in Germany has to be insisted on ; for it is just here that the relation of the Reformation to the Renaissance in general makes itself apparent. As the Renaissance had its precursory movements in the medieval period, so the German Reformation was preceded by Wickliffe and Huss, by the discontents of the Great Schism, and by the councils of Constance and Basel. These two main streams of modern progress had been proceeding upon different tracks to diverse issues, but they touched in the studies stimulated by the Revival, and they had a common origin in the struggle of the spirit after self-emancipation. Johann Reuchlin, who entered the lecture-room of Argyro-poulos at Rome in 1482, Erasmus of Rotterdam, who once dwelt at Venice as the house guest of the Aldi, applied their critical knowledge of Hebrew and of Greek to the elucidation and diffusion of the Bible. To the Germans, as to all nations of that epoch, the Bible came as a new book, because they now read it for the first time with eyes opened by humanism. The touch of the new spirit which had evolved literature, art, and culture in Italy sufficed in Germany to recreate Christianity. This new spirit in Italy emancipated human intelligence by the classics ; in Germany it emancipated the human conscience by the Bible. The indignation excited by Leo X.’s sale of indulgences, the moral rage stirred in Northern hearts by papal abominations in Rome, were external causes which precipitated the schism between Teutonic and
Latin Christianity. The Reformation, inspired by the same energy of resuscitated life as the Renaissance, assisted by the same engines of the printing-press and paper, using the same apparatus of scholarship, criticism, literary skill, being in truth another manifestation of the same world-movement under a diverse form, now posed itself as an irreconcilable antagonist to Renaissance Italy. It would be difficult to draw any comparison between German and Italian humanists to the disparagement of the former. Reuchlin was no less learned than Pico; Melanchthon no less humane than Ficino ; Erasmus no less witty, and far more trenchant, than Petrarch; Ulrich von Hutten no less humorous than Folengo; Paracelsus no less fantastically learned than Cardano. But the cause in which German intellect and will were enlisted was so different that it is difficult not to make a formal separation between that movement which evolved culture in Italy and that which restored religion in Germany, establishing the freedom of intelligence in the one sphere and the freedom of the conscience in the other. The truth is that the Reformation was the Teutonic Renaissance. It was the emancipation of the reason on a line neglected by the Italians, more important indeed in its political consequences, more Aveighty in its bearing on rationalistic developments than the Italian Renaissance, but none the less an outcome of the same ground-influences. We have already in this century reached a point at which, in spite of stubborn Protestant dogmatism and bitter Catholic reaction, we can perceive how the ultimate affranchisement of man will be the work of both.
The German Reformation Avas incapable of propagating : itself in Italy, chiefly for the reason that the intellectual forces which it represented and employed had already found specific outlet in that country. It Avas not in the nature of the Italians, sceptical and paganized by the Revival, to be keenly interested about questions which seemed to revive the scholastic disputes of the Middle Ages. It was not in their external conditions, suffering as they were from invasions, enthralled by despots, to use the Reformation as a lever for political revolution. Yet Avhen a tumultuary army of so-called Lutherans sacked Rome in 1527 no sober thinker doubted that a new agent had appeared in Europe Avhich Avould alter the destinies of the peninsula. The Renaissance Avas virtually closed, so far as it concerned Italy, Avhen Clement VII. and Charles V. struck their compact at Bologna in 1530. This compact proclaimed the principle of monarchical absolutism, supported by papal authority, itself monarchically absolute, which influenced Europe until the outbreak of the Revolution. A reaction immediately set in both against the Renaissance and the Reformation. The council of Trent, opened in 1545 and closed in 1563, decreed a formal purgation of the church, affirmed the fundamental doctrines of Catholicism, strengthened the papal supremacy, and inaugurated that movement of resistance Avhich is knoAAm as the Counter-Reformation. The complex onward effort of the modern nations, expressing itself in Italy as Renaissance, in Germany as Reformation, had aroused the forces of conservatism. The four main instruments of the reaction Avere the papacy, Avhich had done so much by its sympathy with the revival to promote the humanistic spirit it now dreaded, the strength of Spain, and tAvo Spanish institutions planted on Roman soil—the Inquisition and the Order of Jesus. The principle contended for and established by this reaction was absolutism as opposed to freedom—monarchical absolutism, papal absolutism, the suppression of energies liberated by the Renaissance and Reformation. The partial triumph of this principle Avas secure, inasmuch as the majority of established poAvers in church and state felt threatened bv the revolutionary opinions afloat in Europe. Renaissance and Reformatioi were, moreover, already at strife. Both too Avere spiritua and elastic tendencies toAvard progress, ideals rather thai solid organisms.
The part played by Spain in this period of history wa determined in large measure by external circumstance The Spaniards became one nation by the conquest o Granada and the union of the crowns of Castile ant Aragon. The Avar of national aggrandizement, being ii its nature a crusade, inflamed the religious enthusiasm o the people. It Avas folloAved by the expulsion of Jews ant Moors, and by the establishment of the Inquisition on ! solid basis, Avith powers formidable to the freedom of al Spaniards from the peasant to the throne. These fact explain the decisive action of the Spanish nation on th< side of Catholic conservatism, and help us to understam Avhy their brilliant achievements in the field of culture during the 16th century Avere speedily folloAved by stag nation. It will be Avell, in dealing Avith the Renaissance in Spain, to touch first upon the arts and literature, an< then to consider those qualities of character in actio! Avhereby the nation most distinguished itself from the res of Europe. Architecture in Spain, emerging from the Gothic stage, developed an Early Renaissance style o beAvildering richness by adopting elements of Arabic an< Moorish decoration. Sculpture exhibited realistic vigou of indubitably native stamp; and the minor plastic craft Avere cultivated Avith success on lines of striking originality Painting greAv from a homely stock, until the work o Velazquez showed that Spanish masters in this branch Aver fully abreast of their Italian compeers and contemporaries To dwell here upon the Italianizing versifiers, moralists, an< pastoral romancers who attempted to refine the vernacula of the Romancero Avould be superfluous. They are mainl; noticeable as proving that certain coteries in Spain wer Avilling to accept the Italian Renaissance. But the rea force of the people Avas not in this courtly literary style It expressed itself at last in the monumental Avork of Do¡ Quixote, which places Cervantes beside Rabelais, Ariosto and Shakespeare as one of the four supreme exponents o the Renaissance. The affectations of decadent chivaln disappeared before its humour; the lineaments of a nobh nation, animated by the youth of modern Europe emerging from the Middle Ages, were portrayed in its enduring pic tures of human experience. The Spanish drama, mean Avhile, untrammelled by those false canons of pseudo classic taste which fettered the theatre in Italy ant afterAvards in France, rose to an eminence in the hands o: Lope de Vega and Calderon Avhich only the English, ant the English only in the masterpieces of three or four play Avrights, can rival. Camoeus, in the Lusiad, if we may here group Portugal with Spain, was the first modern poel to compose an epic on a purely modern theme, vying Avitl: Virgil, but not bending to pedantic rules, and breathing the spirit of the age of heroic adventures and-almost fabu lous discoveries into his melodious numbers. What has chiefly to be noted regarding the achievements of the Spanish race in arts and letters at this epoch is then potent national originality. The revival of learning pro duced in Spain no slavish imitation as it did in Italy, nc formal humanism, and, it may be added, very little ol fruitful scholarship. The Renaissance here, as in England, displayed essential qualities of intellectual freedom, delight in life, exultation over rediscovered earth and man. Tin note of Renaissance Avork in Germany Avas still Gothic This we feel in the penetrative earnestness of Dürer, in the homeliness of Hans Sachs, in the grotesque humoui of Eidenspiegel and the Narrenschif, the sombre pregnancy of the Faust legend, the almost stolid mastery of Holbein. It lay not in the German genius to escape from the pre
occupations and the limitations of the Middle Ages, for this reason mainly that what we call mediaeval was to a very large extent Teutonic. But on the Spanish peninsula, in the masterpieces of Velazquez, Cervantes, Camoens, Calderon, we emerge into an atmosphere of art, definitely national, distinctly modern, where solid natural forms stand before us realistically modelled, with light and shadow on their rounded outlines, and where the airiest creatures of the fancy take shape and weave a dance of rhythmic, light, incomparable intricacy. The Spanish Renaissance would in itself suffice, if other witnesses were wanting, to prove how inaccurate is the theory that limits this movement to the revival of learning. Touched by Italian influences, enriched and fortified by the new learning, Spanish genius walked firmly forward on its own path. It was only crushed by forces generated in the nation that produced it, by the Inquisition and by despotic Catholic absolutism.
In the history of the Renaissance, Spain and Portugal represent the exploration of the ocean and the colonization of the other hemisphere. The voyages of Columbus and Vespucci to America, the rounding of the Cape by Diaz and the discovery of the sea road to India by Vasco da Gama, Cortes’s conquest of Mexico and Pizarro’s conquest of Peru, marked a new era for the human race and inaugurated the modern age more decisively than any other series of events has done. It has recently been maintained that modern European history is chiefly an affair of competition between confederated states for the possession of lands revealed by Columbus and Da Gama. Without challenging or adopting this speculation, it may be safely affirmed that nothing so pregnant of results has happened as this exploration of the globe. To say that it displaced the centre of gravity in politics and commerce, substituting the ocean for the Mediterranean, dethroning Italy from her seat of central importance in traffic, depressing the eastern and elevating the western powers of Europe, opening a path for Anglo-Saxon expansiveness, forcing philosophers and statesmen to regard the Occidental nations as a single group in counterpoise to other groups of nations, the European community as one unit correlated to other units of humanity upon this planet, is truth enough to vindicate the vast significance of these discoveries. The Renaissance, far from being the re-birth of antiquity with its civilization confined to the Mediterranean, with its Hercules’ Pillars beyond which lay Cimmerian darkness, was thus effectively the entrance upon a quite incalculably wider stage of life, in which mankind at large has since enacted one great drama, ■i While Spanish navies were exploring the ocean, and Spanish paladins were overturning empires, Charles V. headed the reaction of Catholicism against reform. Stronger as king of Spain than as emperor, for the empire was little but a name, he lent the weight of his authority to that system of coercion and repression which enslaved Italy, desolated Germany with war, and drowned the Low Countries in blood. Philip II., with full approval of the Spanish nation, pursued the same policy in an even stricter spirit. He was powerfully assisted by two institutions, in which the national character of Spain expressed itself, the Inquisition and the Society of Jesus. Of the former it is not needful to speak here. But we have to observe that the last great phenomenon of the Spanish Renaissance was Ignatius Loyola, who organized the militia by means of which the church worked her Counter-Reformation. His motto, Perinde ac cadaver, expressed that recognition of absolutism which papacy and monarchy demanded for their consolidation.
The logical order of an essay which attempts to show how Renaissance was correlated to Reformation and Counter-Reformation has necessitated the treatment of
Italy, Germany, and Spain in succession; for these three 1 nations were the three main agents in the triple process to * be analysed. It was due to their specific qualities, and to1  the diverse circumstances of their external development,1  that the re-birth of Europe took this form of duplex action 1 on the lines of intellectual and moral progress, followed by reaction against mental freedom. We have now to speak of France, which earliest absorbed the influence of the Italian revival, and of England, which received it latest. The Renaissance may be said to have begun in France with Charles VIII.’s expedition to Naples, and to have continued until the extinction of the house of Valois. Louis XII. and Francis I. spent a considerable portion of their reigns in the attempt to secure possession of the Italian provinces they claimed. Henry II.’s queen was Catherine of the Medicean family ; and her children, Charles IX. and Henry III., were Italianated Frenchmen. Thus the connexion between France and Italy during the period 1494-1589 was continuous. The French passed to and fro across the Alps on military and peaceful expeditions. Italians came to France as courtiers, ambassadors, men of business, captains, and artists. French society assumed a strong Italian colouring, nor were the manners of the court very different from those of an Italian city, except that externally they remained ruder and less polished. The relation between the crown and its great feudatories, the military bias of the aristocracy, and the marked distinction between classes which survived from the Middle Ages, rendered France in many vital points unlike Italy. Yet the annals of that age, and the anecdotes retailed by Brantome, prove that the royalty and nobility of France had been largely Italianized.
It is said that Louis XII. brought Fra Giocondo of Verona back with him to France, and founded a school of architects. But we need not have recourse to this legend for the explanation of such Italian influences as were already noticeable in the Renaissance buildings on the Loire. Without determining the French style, Italian intercourse helped to stimulate its formation and development. There are students of the 15th century in France who resent this intrusion of the Italian Renaissance. But they forget that France was bound by inexorable laws of human evolution to obey the impulse which communicated itself to every form of art in Europe. In the school of Fontainebleau, under the patronage of Francis I., that Italian influence made itself distinctly felt; yet a true French manner had been already formed, which, when it was subsequently applied at Paris, preserved a marked national quality. The characteristic of the style developed by Bullant, De 1’Orme, and Lescot, in the royal or princely palaces of Chenonceaux, Chambord, Anet, Ecouen, Fontainebleau, the Louvre, and elsewhere, is a blending of capricious fancy and inventive richness of decoration with purity of ! outline and a large sense of the beauty of extended masses. Beginning with the older castles of Touraine, and passing onward to the Tuileries, we trace the passage from the mediaeval fortress to the modern pleasure house, and note how architecture obeyed the special demands of that new phenomenon of Renaissance civilization, the court. In the general distribution of parts these monumental buildings express the peculiar conditions which French society assumed under the influence of Francis I. and Diane de Poitiers. In details of execution and harmonic combinations they illustrate the precision, logic, lucidity, and cheerful spirit of the national genius. Here, as in Lombardy, a feeling for serene beauty derived from study of the antique has not interrupted the evolution of a style indigenous to France and eminently characteristic of the French temperament.
During the reign of Francis I. several Italian painters
of eminence visited France. Among these Del Rosso, Primaticcio, Del Sarto, and Da Vinci are the most famous. But their example was not productive of a really great school of French painting. It was left for the Poussins and Claude Lorraine in the next century, acting under mingled Italian and Flemish influences, to embody the still active spirit of the classical revival. These three masters were the contemporaries of Corneille, and do not belong to the Renaissance period. Sculpture, on the contrary, in which art, as in architecture, the mediaeval French had been surpassed by no other people of Europe, was practised with originality and power in the reigns of Henry II. and Francis I. Ponzio and Cellini, who quitted Italy for France, found themselves outrivailed in their own sphere by Jean Goujon, Cousin, and Pilon. The decorative sculpture of this epoch, whether combined with architecture or isolated in monumental statuary, ranks for grace and suavity with the best of Sansovino’s. At the same time it is unmistakably inspired by a sense of beauty different from the Italian,—more piquant and pointed, less languorous, more mannered perhaps, but with less of empty rhythmical effect. All this while, the minor arts of enamelling, miniature, glass-painting, goldsmith’s work, jewellery, engraving, tapestry, wood-carving, pottery, &c., were cultivated with a spontaneity and freedom which proved that France, in the middle point between Flanders and Italy, was able to use both influences without a sacrifice of native taste. It may indeed be said in general that what is true of France is likewise true of all countries which felt the artistic impulses of the Renaissance. Whether we regard Spain, the Netherlands, or Germany at this epoch, we find a national impress stamped upon the products of the plastic and the decorative arts, notwithstanding the prevalence of certain forms derived from the antique and Italy. It was only at a later period that the formalism of pseudo-classic pedantry reduced natural and national originality to a dead unanimity.
French literature was quick to respond to Renaissance influences. De Comines, the historian of Charles VIII.’s expedition to Naples, differs from the earlier French chroniclers in his way of regarding the world of men and affairs. He has the perspicuity and analytical penetration of a Venetian ambassador. Villon, his contemporary, may rather be ranked, so far as artistic form and use of knowledge are concerned, with poets of the Middle Ages, and in particular with the Goliardi. But he is essentially modern in the vividness of his self-portraiture, and in what we are wont to call realism. Both De Comines and Villon indicate the entrance of a new quality into literature. The Rhétoriqueurs, while protracting mediæval traditions by their use of allegory and complicated metrical systems, sought to improve the French language by introducing Latinisms. Thus the Revival of Learning began to affect the vernacular in the last years of the 15tlx century.    Marot and his school reacted against this
pedantry. The Renaissance displayed itself in their effort to purify the form and diction of poetry. But the decisive revolution was effected by Ronsard and his comrades of the Pléiade. It was their professed object to raise French to a level with the classics, and to acclimatize Italian species of verse. The humanistic movement led these learned writers to engraft the graces of the antique upon their native literature, and to refine it by emulating the lucidity of Petrarch. The result of their endeavour was immediately apparent in the new force added to French rhythm, the new pomp, richness, colouring, and polish conferred upon poetic diction. French style gradually attained to fixity, and the alexandrine came to be recognized as the standard line in poetry. D’Aubigné’s invective and Regnier’s satire, at the close of the 16th century, are as
modern as Voltaire’s. Meanwhile the drama was emerging from the mediæval mysteries; and the classical type, made popular by Garnier’s genius, was elaborated, as in Italy, upon the model of Seneca and the canons of the three unities. The tradition thus formed was continued and fortified by the illustrious playwrights of the 17th century. Translation from Greek and Latin into French progressed rapidly at the commencement of this period. It was a marked characteristic of the Renaissance in France to appropriate the spoils of Greece and Rome for the profit of the mother tongue. Amyot’s Plutarch and his Daphnis and Chloe rank among the most exquisite examples of beautiful French prose. Prose had now the charm of simplicity combined with grace. To mention Brantôme is to mention the most entertaining of gossips. To speak of Montaigne is to speak of the best as well as the first of essayists. In all the literary work which has been mentioned, the originality and freshness of the French genius are no less conspicuous than its saturation with the new learning and with Italian studies. But the greatest name of the epoch, the name which is synonymous with the Renaissance in France, has yet to be uttered. That, of course, is Rabelais. His incommensurable and indescribable masterpiece of mingled humour, wisdom, satire, erudition, indecency, profundity, levity, imagination, realism, reflects the whole age in its mirror of hyper-Aristophanic farce. What Ariosto is for Italy, Cervantes for Spain, Erasmus for Holland, Luther for Germany, Shakespeare for England, that is Rabelais for France. The Renaissance cannot be comprehended in its true character without familiarity with these six representatives of its manifold and many-sided inspiration.
The French Renaissance, so rich on the side of arts and letters, was hardly less rich on the side of classical studies. The revival of learning has a noble muster-roll of names in France: Turnèbe, the patriarch of Hellenistic studies; the Etiennes of Paris, equalling in numbers, industry, and learning their Venetian rivals; the two Scaligers ; impassioned Dolet ; eloquent Muret ; learned Cujas ; terrible Calvin ; Ramus, the intrepid antagonist of Aristotle ; De Thou and De Bèze ; ponderous Casaubon ; brilliant young Saumaise. The distinguishing characteristics of French humanism are vivid intelligence, critical audacity and polemical acumen, perspicuity of exposition, learning directed in its applications by logical sense rather than by artistic ideals of taste. Some of the names just mentioned remind us that in France, as in Germany and Holland, the Reformation was closely connected with the revival of learning. Humanism has never been in the narrow sense of that term Protestant ; still less has it been strictly Catholic. In Italy it fostered a temper of mind decidedly averse to theological speculation and religious earnestness. In Holland and Germany, with Erasmus, Reuchlin, and Melanchthon, it developed types of character, urbane, reflective, pointedly or gently critical, which, left to themselves, would not have plunged the north of Europe into the whirlpool of belligerent reform. Yet none the less was the new learning, through the open spirit of inquiry it nourished, its vindication of the private reason, its enthusiasm for republican antiquity, and its proud assertion of the rights of human independence, linked by a strong and subtle chain to that turbid revolt of the individual consciousness against spiritual despotism draped in fallacies and throned upon abuses. To this rebellion we give the name of Reformation. But, while the necessities of antagonism to papal Rome made it assume at first the form of narrow and sectarian opposition, it marked in fact a vital struggle of the intellect towards truth and freedom, involving future results of scepticism and rationalistic audacity from which its earlier champions
would have shrunk. It marked, moreover, in the condition of armed resistance against established authority which was forced upon it by the Counter-Reformation, a firm resolve to assert political liberty, leading in the course of time to a revolution with which the rebellious spirit of the Revival was sympathetic. This being the relation of humanism in general to reform, French learning in particular displayed such innovating boldness as threw many of its most conspicuous professors into the camp at war with Rome. Calvin, a French student of Picard origin, created the type of Protestantism to which the majority of French Huguenots adhered. This too was a moment at which philosophical seclusion was hardly possible. In a nation so tumultuously agitated one side or the other had to be adopted. Those of the French humanists who did not proclaim Huguenot opinions, found themselves obliged with Muretus to lend their talents to the Counter-Reformation, or to suffer persecution for heterodoxy, like Dolet. The church, terrified and infuriated by the progress of reform, suspected learning on its own account. To be an eminent scholar was to be accused of immorality, heresy, and atheism in a single indictment; and the defence of weaker minds lay in joining the Jesuits, as Heinsius was fain to do. France had already absorbed the earlier Renaissance in an Italianizing spirit before the Reformation made itself felt as a political actuality. This fact, together with the strong Italian bias of the Valois, serves to explain in some degree the reason why the Counter-Reformation entailed those fierce entangled civil wars, massacres of St Bartholomew, murders of the Guises, regicides, treasons, and empoisonments that terminated with the compromise of Henry IV. It is no part of the present subject to analyse the political, religious, and social interests of that struggle. The upshot was the triumph of the Counter-Reformation, and the establishment of its principle, absolutism, as the basis of French government, it was a French king who, when the nation had been reduced to order, uttered the famous word of absolutism, “ L’Etat, c’est moi.”
The Renaissance in the Low Countries, as elsewhere, had its brilliant age of arts and letters. During the Middle Ages the wealthy free towns of Flanders flourished under conditions not dissimilar to those of the Italian republics.. They raised miracles of architectural beauty, which were • modified in the 15th and 16th centuries by characteristic elements of the new style. The Van Eycks, followed by Memling, Metsys, Mabuse, Lucas van Leyden, struck out a new path in the revival of painting and taught Europe the secret of oil-colouring. But it was reserved for the 17th century to witness the flower and fruit time of this powerful art in the work of Porbus, Rubens, and Vandyck, in the Dutch schools of landscape and home-life, and in the unique masterpieces of Rembrandt. We have a right to connect this later period with the Renaissance, because the distracted state of the Netherlands during the 16th century suspended, while it could not extinguish, their aesthetic development. The various schools of the 17th century, moreover, are animated with the Renaissance spirit no less surely than the Florentine school of the 15th or the Venetian of the 16th. The animal vigour and carnal enjoyment of Rubens, the refined Italianizing beauty of Vandyck, the mystery of light and gloom on Rembrandt’s panels, the love of nature in Ruysdael, Cuyp, and Van Hooghe, with their luminously misty skies, silvery daylight, and broad expanse of landscape, the interest in common life displayed by Terburg, Van Steen, Douw, Ostade, and Teniers, the instinct for the beauty of animals in Potter, the vast sea spaces of Vanderveldt, the grasp on reality, the acute intuition into character in portraits, the scientific study of the world and man, the robust sympathy with natural appetites, which distinguish
the whole art of the Low Countries, are a direct emanation from the Renaissance.
The vernacular in the Netherlands profited at first but little by the impulse which raised Italian, Spanish, French, and English to the rank of classic languages. But humanism, first of all in its protagonist Erasmus, afterwards in the long list of critical scholars and editors, Lipsius, Heinsius, and Grotius, in the printers Elzevir and Plantin, developed itself from the centre of the Leyden university with massive energy, and proved that it was still a motive force of intellectual progress. In the fields of classical learning the students of the Low Countries broke new ground chiefly by methodical collection, classification, and comprehensive criticism of previously accumulated stores. Their works were solid and substantial edifices, forming the substratum for future scholarship. In addition to this they brought philosophy and scientific thoroughness to bear on studies which had been pursued in a more literary spirit. It would, however, be uncritical to pursue this subject further; for the encyclopaedic labours of the Dutch philologers belong to a period when the Renaissance was overpast. For the same reason it is inadmissible to do more than mention the name of Spinoza here.
The Netherlands became the battlefield of Reformation and Counter-Reformation in even a stricter sense than France. Here the antagonistic principles were plainly i posed in the course of a struggle against foreign despotism.
I The conflict ended in the assertion of political independence as opposed to absolute dominion. Europe in large measure owes the modern ideal of political liberty to that spirit of stubborn resistance which broke the power of Spain. Recent history, and in particular the history of democracy, claims for its province the several stages whereby this principle was developed in England and America, and its outburst in the frenzy of the French Revolution. It is enough here to have alluded to the part played by the Low Countries in the genesis of a motive force which may be described as the last manifestation of the Renaissance striving after self-emancipation.
The insular position of England, combined with the nature of the English people, has allowed us to feel the vibration of European movements later and with less of shock than any of the Continental nations. Before a wave of progress has reached our shores we have had the opportunity of watching it as spectators, and of considering how we shall receive it. Revolutions have passed from the tumultuous stages of their origin into some settled and recognizable state before we have been called upon to cope with them. It was thus that England took the influences of the Renaissance and Reformation simultaneously, and almost at the same time found herself engaged in that struggle with the Counter-Reformation which, crowned by the defeat of the Spanish Armada, stimulated the sense of nationality and developed the naval forces of the race. Both Renaissance and Reformation had been anticipated by at least a century in England. Chaucer’s poetry, which owed so much to Italian examples, gave an early foretaste of the former. Wickliffe’s teaching was a vital moment in the latter. But the French wars, the Wars of the Roses, and the persecution of the Lollards deferred the coming of the new age; and the year 1536,
I when Henry VIII. passed the Act of Supremacy through Parliament, may be fixed as the date when England entered definitively upon a career of intellectual development abreast with the foremost nations of the Continent. The circumstances just now insisted on explain the specific character of the English Renaissance. The Reformation had been adopted by consent of the king, lords, and commons; and this change in the state religion, though it was not confirmed without reaction, agitation, and blood-
shed, cost the nation comparatively little disturbance. Humanism, before it affected the bulk of the English people, had already permeated Italian and French literature. Classical erudition had been adapted to the needs of modern thought. The hard work of collecting, printing, annotating, and translating Greek and Latin authors had been accomplished. The masterpieces of antiquity had been interpreted and made intelligible. Much of the learning popularized by our poets and dramatists was derived at second hand from modern literature. This does not mean that England was deficient in ripe and sound scholars. More, Colet, Ascham, Cheke, Camden were men whose familiarity with the classics was both intimate and easy. Public schools and universities conformed to the modern methods of study; nor were there wanting opportunities for youths of humble origin to obtain an education which placed them on a level with Italian scholars. The single case of Ben Jonson sufficiently proves this. Yet learning did not at this epoch become a marked speciality in England. There was no class corresponding to the humanists. It should also be remembered that the best works of Italian literature were introduced into Great Britain together with the classics. Phaer’s Virgil, Chapman’s Homer, Harrington’s Orlando, Marlowe’s Hero and Leander, Fairfax’s Jerusalem Delivered, North’s Flutarch, Hoby’s Courtier—to mention only a few examples—placed English readers simultaneously in possession of the most eminent and representative works of Greece, Rome, and Italy. At the same time Spanish influences reached them through the imitators of Guevara and the dramatists; French influences in the versions of romances; German influences in popular translations of the Faust legend, Eulenspiegel, and similar productions. The authorized version of the Bible had also been recently given to the people,—so that almost at the same period of time England obtained in the vernacular an extensive library of ancient and modern authors. This was a privilege enjoyed in like measure by no other nation. It sufficiently accounts for the richness and variety of Elizabethan literature, and for the enthusiasm with which the English language was cultivated.
Speaking strictly, England borrowed little in the region of the arts from other nations, and developed still less that was original. What is called Jacobean architecture marks indeed an interesting stage in the transition from the Gothic style. But, compared with Italian, French, Spanish, German, and Flemish work of a like period, it is both timid and dry. Sculpture was represented in London for a brief space by Torrigiani; painting by Holbein and Antonio More; music by Italians and Frenchmen of the Chapel Royal. But no Englishmen rose to European eminence in these departments. With literature the case was very different. Wyat and Surrey began by engrafting the forms and graces of Italian poetry upon the native stock. They introduced the sonnet and blank verse. Sidney followed wr ith the sestine and terza rima and with various experiments in classic metres, none of which took root on English soil. The translators handled the octave stanza. Marlowe gave new vigour to the couplet. The first period of the English Renaissance was one of imitation and assimilation. Academies after the Italian type were founded. Tragedies in the style of Seneca, rivalling Italian and French dramas of the epoch, were produced. Attempts to Latinize ancestral rhythms, similar to those which had failed in Italy and France, were made. Tentative essays in criticism and dissertations on the art of poetry abounded. It seemed as though the Renaissance ran a risk of being throttled in its cradle by superfluity of foreign and pedantic nutriment. But the natural vigour of the English genius resisted influences alien to itself, and showed a robust capacity for digesting the varied diet offered to it. As there was nothing despotic in the temper of the ruling classes, nothing oppressive in English culture, the literature of that age evolved itself freely from the people. It wr as under these conditions that Spenser gave his romantic epic to the world, a poem which derived its allegory from the Middle Ages, its decorative richness from the Italian Renaissance, its sweetness, purity, harmony, and imaginative splendour from the most poetic nation of the modern world. Under the same conditions the Elizabethan drama, which in its totality is the real exponent of the English Renaissance, came into existence. This drama very early freed itself from the pseudo-classic mannerism which imposed on taste in Italy and France. Depicting feudalism in the vivid colours of an age at war with feudal institutions, breathing into antique histories the breath of actual life, embracing the romance of Italy and Spain, the mysteries of German legend, the fictions of poetic fancy and the facts of daily life, humours of the moment and abstractions of philosophical speculation, in one homogeneous amalgam instinct with intense vitality, this extraordinary birth of time, with Shakespeare for the master of all ages, left a monument of the Renaissance unrivalled for pure creative power by any other product of that epoch. To complete the sketch, we must set Bacon, the expositor of modern scientific method, beside Spenser and Shakespeare, as the third representative of the Renaissance in England. Nor should Raleigh, Drake, Hawkins, the semi-buccaneer explorers of the ocean, be omitted. They, following the lead of Portuguese and -Spaniards, combating the Counter-Reformation on the seas, :  opened for England her career of colonization and planta-, tion. All this while the political policy of Tudors and , I Stewarts tended towards monarchical absolutism, while the Reformation in England, modified by contact with 1  the Low Countries during their struggles, was narrowing ; into strict reactionary intolerance. Puritanism indicated a revolt of the religious conscience of the nation against! the arts and manners of the Renaissance, against the1  encroachments of belligerent Catholicism, against the corrupt and Italianated court of James I., against the absolutist pretensions of his son Charles. In its final manifestation during the Commonwealth, Puritanism won a transient victory over the mundane forces of both Reformation and Renaissance, as these had taken shape in England. It also secured the eventual triumph of constitutional independence. Milton, the greatest humanistic poet of the English race, lent his pen and moral energies during the best years of his life to securing that principle on which modern political systems at present rest. Thus the geographical isolation of England, and the comparatively late adoptif^n by the English of matured Italian and German influences, give peculiar complexity to the phenomena of Reformation and Renaissance simultaneously developed on our island. The period of our history between 1536 and 1642 shows how difficult it is to separate these two factors in the re-birth of Europe, both of which contributed so powerfully to the formation of modern English nationality.
It has been impossible to avoid an air of superficiality, : and the repetition of facts known to every schoolboy, in ] this sketch of so complicated a subject as the Renaissance,— ; embracing many nations, a great variety of topics, and an (  indefinite period of time. Yet no other treatment was \ possible upon the lines laid down at the outset, where it ] was explained why the term Renaissance cannot now be !  confined to the Revival of Learning and the effect of antique studies upon literary and artistic ideals. The purpose of this article has been to show that, wffiile the Renaissance implied a new way of regarding the material world and human nature, a new conception of man’s destiny and
duties on this planet, a new culture and new intellectual perceptions penetrating every sphere of thought and energy, it also involved new reciprocal relations between the members of the European group of nations. The Renaissance closed the Middle Ages and opened the modern era,—not merely because the mental and moral ideas which then sprang into activity and owed their force in large measure to the revival of classical learning were opposed to mediaeval modes of thinking and feeling, but also because the political and international relations specific to it as an age were at variance with fundamental theories of the past. Instead of empire and church, the sun and moon of the mediaeval system, a federation of peoples, separate in type and divergent in interests, yet bound together by common tendencies, common culture, and common efforts, came into existence. For obedience to central authority was substituted balance of power. Henceforth the hegemony of Europe attached to no crown imperial or papal, but to the nation which was capable of winning it, in the spiritual region by mental ascendency, and in the temporal by force.
That this is the right way of regarding the subject appears from the events of the first two decades of the 16th century, those years in which the humanistic revival attained its highest point in Italy. Luther published his i theses in 1517, sixty-four years after the fall of Constantinople, twenty-three years after the expedition of Charles VIII. to Naples, ten years before the sack of Rome, at a moment when France, Spain, and England had only felt the influences of Italian culture but feebly. From that date forward two parties wrestled for supremacy in Europe, to which may be given the familiar names of Liberalism and Conservatism, the party of progress and the party of established institutions. The triumph of the former was most signal among the Teutonic peoples. The Latin races, championed by Spain and supported by the Papacy, fought the battle of the latter, and succeeded for a time in rolling
back the tide of revolutionary conquest. !Meanwhile that . liberal culture which had been created for Europe by the Italians before the contest of the Reformation began continued to spread, although it was stifled in Italy and Spain, retarded in France and the Low Countries, well nigh extirpated by wars in Germany, and diverted from its course in England by the counter-movement of Puritanism. The auto da f'es of Seville and Madrid, the flames to which Bruno, Dolet, and Paleario ■were flung, the dungeon of Campanella and the seclusion of Galileo, the massacre of St Bartholomew and the faggots of Smithfield, the desolated plains of Germany and the cruelties of Alva in the Netherlands, disillusioned Europe of those golden dreams which had arisen in the earlier days of humanism, and which had been so pleasantly indulged by Rabelais. In truth the Renaissance was ruled by no Astræa redux, but rather by a severe spirit which brought not peace but a sword, reminding men of sternest duties, testing what of moral force and j tenacity was in them, compelling them to strike for the old order or the new, suffering no lukewarm halting between two opinions. That, in spite of retardation and retrogression, the old order of ideas should have yielded to the new all over Europe,—that science should have won firm standing-ground, and political liberty should have struggled through those birth-throes of its origin,—was in the nature of things. Had this not been, the Renaissance or re-birth of Europe would be a term without a meaning.
Literature.—The special articles on the several arts and the literatures of modern Europe, and on the biographies of great men mentioned in this essay, will give details of necessity here omitted. It may be useful to indicate a few works upon the Renaissance in | general. Burckhardt’s Die Cultur der Renaissance in Italien,
1 Michelet’s “Renaissance” (7th vol. of Histoire de France), Voigt’s JViederbelebung des Classischen Altcrthums ; Symonds’s Renaissance in Italy, Marc Monnier’s Renaissance de Dante à Luther, Miintz’s Précurseurs de la Renaissance and Renaissance en Italie et en France, and Geiger’s Humanismus unci Renaissance in Italien und Deutschland are among the most comprehensive.    (J. A. S.)
RENAIX, a manufacturing town of Belgium, in the province of East Flanders, eight miles by rail south of Oudenarde, with a communal population of 14,089 in 1876. It contains the ruins of a castle built in 1638 by Count John of Nassau-Siegen, and a church with the tomb of St Hermes, to whom it is dedicated.
RÉNAUDOT, Eusèbe (1646-1720), theologian and Orientalist, was born in Paris in 1646, and was educated for the church. Notwithstanding his taste for theology and his title of abbé, he never took orders, and much of his life was spent at the French court, where he attracted the notice of Colbert and was often employed in confidential affairs. The unusual learning in Eastern tongues which he had acquired in his youth and continued to maintain amidst the distractions of court life did not bear fruit till he was sixty-two years old. His best-known books, which are still valuable, are the Jlistoria Patri-archarum Alexandrinorum (Paris, 1713), and the collection of Eastern liturgies (2 vols., 1715-16). The latter ·work was designed to supply proofs of the “perpetuity of the faith” of the church on the subject of the sacraments, the topic about which most of his theological writings turned, and which was then, in consequence of the controversies attaching to Arnauld’s Perpétuité de la Foi, a burning one between French Catholics and Protestants. Rénaudot was not a very fair controversialist, but his learning and industry are unquestionable, and his piety shone the more brightly that it did not withdraw itself from contact with the world. He died in 1720.
RENDSBURG, a town of Prussia, in the province of Schleswig-Holstein, is situated on the Eider, in a flat and sandy district, 20 miles to the west of Kiel. It consists of three parts :—the crowded Altstadt, on an island in the Eider; the Neuwerk, on the south bank of the river; and the Kronwerk, on the north bank. Rendsburg is the chief jilace in the basin of the Eider, and when in the possession of Denmark was maintained as a strong fortress, guarding the approach to the Cimbric peninsula. Its present importance, however, rests on the commercial facilities afforded by its connexion with the North Sea and the Baltic through the Eider and the Eider Canal, by which a brisk transit trade is carried on in grain, timber, Swedish iron, and coals. The principal industries are cotton-weaving, tanning, and the manufacture of artificial manures ; and there is a large iron foundry in the immediate neighbourhood. The population in 1880 was 12,776, including a strong garrison.
The town of Rendsburg came into existence under the shelter of a castle founded by the Danes about the year 1100 on an island of the Eider, and was at first an object of dispute between the Danish kings and the counts of Holstein. In 1252 it was finally adjudged to the latter, and it has since shared their fortunes. The town was surrounded with ramparts in 1539, but the important fortifications of the Kronwerk were not constructed till the end of the 17th century. During the Thirty Years’ War Rendsburg was taken both by the Imperialists and the Swedes, but in 1645 it successfully resisted a second siege by the latter. The war of 1848-50 began with the capture of Rendsburg by the Holsteiners by a coup de main, and it formed the centre of the German operations. On the departure of the German troops in 1852 the Danes at once set to work to demolish the fortifications.
RENÉ I. (1409-1480), duke of Anjou, count of Provence, and titular king of Naples, was the second son of Louis II. of Aragon, king of Naples, and Yolande, daughter of John I. of Aragon, and was born 16th
January 1409. Although his father was crowned king of Naples at Avignon by Pope Clement VII. in 1384, he was unable to make good his claims. After his death Louis III., the elder son, assumed the title, and in 1423 was adopted by Johanna II. of Naples, and obtained possession of the throne. Dying 15th November 1434, he left his claims to his brother René, who was also appointed heir by Johanna II. at her death in the following year. Meantime René had been imprisoned by the count of Vaudemont for contesting his claims to the dukedom of Lorraine, and therefore appointed his wife Isabella regent in his stead. In 1437 he procured his freedom and the acknowledgment of his right to Lorraine for 400,000 florins, and in the following year landed at Naples and rejoined Isabella. Finding, however, that the task of conquering the kingdom from Alphonso of Aragon was beyond his power, he returned in 1442 to Lorraine, which he afterwards gave over to his son John, titular duke of Calabria. In 1444 he took part at Tours in the peace negotiations between England and France; and, to cement the alliance, Henry VI. espoused his daughter Margaret of Anjou. Subsequently he ceased to concern himself with politics, and devoted his chief attention to literature. He also took a special interest in painting and sculpture, although there appears to have been no foundation for the statement that he practised either of these arts. His closing years were spent in the company of his daughter the exiled queen. He died 10th July 1480.
His Œuvres Completes, with a biography and notes by the count of Quatrebarbes, were published at Paris, 4 vols., 1844-46. See also De Villeneuve-Bargemont, Histoire de René d'Anjou, 3 vols., Paris, 1825 ; Reriouvier, Les peintres et les enlumineurs du roi René, 1851; and Lecoy de la Marche, Le roi René, 2 vols., Paris, 1875.
RENFREW, a county of Scotland, skirting the Firth of Clyde, lies between 55° 40' 34" and 55° 57' 45" N. lat., and between 4° 13' and 4° 54' W. long., and is bounded N. by the Clyde, N.E. by Dumbarton and by Lanark, E. by Lanark, S. by Ayr, and W. by the Firth of Clyde. Its greatest length from west-north-west to east-south-east is 30| miles, and its greatest breadth at right angles to this 13J miles. The area is 253793־ square miles or 162,427958־ acres, of which 2021179־ acres are foreshore and 3621342־ are water. Except a small portion opposite the burgh of Renfrew, the whole county lies to the south of the Clyde. Twenty-seventh among the Scottish counties as regards extent, it is fifth in point of population, and Midlothian alone is as densely populated, the number of inhabitants to the square mile in 1881 having been 1075 in both. For local purposes the county is divided into an upper and a lower ward, the former embracing the two-thirds lying to the east, and having its district centre at Paisley, while the latter contains the parishes of Innerkip, Greenock, Port Glasgow, and Kilmalcolm, and has its district centre at Greenock. The southern border and western part of the county are hilly, but none of the heights rise very much above sea-level, the highest points being Misty Law (1663), East Girt Hill (1673), Hill of Stake (1711), and Burnt Hill (1572), all along the border of Ayrshire. The central part is undulating and, as much of the higher portion of it is well wooded, the scenery is in some places picturesque. Along the greater part of the northern border is a flat tract of clayey carse-land known locally as the “ laich lands, ” and very fertile in favourable seasons.
The principal river is the Clyde, which forms a considerable portion of the northern boundary ; and the other chief streams are the White Cart, Black Cart, and Gryfe. The first has its chief sources in the extreme south-east of the county, and flows northward—forming for most of the way the boundary with Lanarkshire— to Cathcart, south of Glasgow, whence it has a westerly course to Paisley, and then again a northerly course till it joins the Clyde a mile north-west of the burgh of Renfrew. The Black Cart issues from Castle Semple Loch near the centre of the southern border of
the county, and follows a general north-easterly course to its junction with the White Cart at Inchinnan church a mile west of the burgh of Renfrew. Its most important headwater is the river Calder, which, with smaller streams flowing to it, drains a considerable portion of the southern border and flows into Castle Semple Loch at Lochwinnoch. The Gryfe, which, with a large number of streams flowing to it, drains nearly all the western half of the county, rises at Gryfe Reservoir, 2^ miles south of Greenock, and has a winding easterly course to its junction with the Black Cart at Walkinshaw, 2 miles north-west of Paisley. A number of smaller streams flow direct to the Clyde, the most important being the Kip and the Kelly Burn in the west of the county. The principal lochs arc Loch Thom and Gryfe Reservoir, 2£ miles south of Greenock; Castle Semple Loch, near the centre of the southern border; Long Loch and Loch Goin, farther east near the same border; and Balgray and Glen Reservoirs, connected with the Glasgow water supply near the centre of the eastern part of the county. The Glasgow, Paisley, and Johnstone Canal, which formerly united these three towns, has since 1882 been laid dry along the greater part of its course and the bed converted into a railway line.
The rocks throughout the county are Carboniferous, and almost the whole of the Lower Carboniferous or Calciferous Sandstone series is here represented by a thick set of volcanic deposits. The oldest beds are the red sandstones, cornstones, and conglomerates which occupy the extreme west corner between Innerkip and Loch Thom. Overlying these is the upper portion of the Lower Carboniferous—the cement-stone group—which runs from the hills behind Greenock on the west, south-eastward by the high ground south of Paisley, and so on to the south-east corner of the county and thence into Lanarkshire. The cement-stones form the underlying deposits over nearly two-thirds of the county to the south, west and west; but, though the base of this subdivision here consists of the usual white sandstones and cement-stones, yet the great mass of the rocks are contemporaneous lava-flows—basalts, mela-phyres, and porphyrites—with interbedded tuffs and volcanic agglomerates which have all issued from a line of vents the positions of which may still be traced by the volcanic necks which remain at several points. In the south-east there are intercalated beds of sandstone, shale, and impure limestone. In some places this series of beds passes conformably up into the overlying Carboniferous Limestone series, which occupies a basin covering nearly one-third of the county to the north-east; but the two subdivisions are oftener brought into contact by faults, a double line of which along the valley of the Black Cart brings a narrow tract of the limestones right across the volcanic beds just described. The base of the Carboniferous Limestone subdivision consists of limestones, the middle portion of a series of valuable seams of coal and ironstone, which are extensively worked, and the upper part of limestones. Masses of intrusive volcanic rocks occur to the south of Johnstone and the north-east of Paisley, and to the north of Johnstone and north-west of Paisley are oil-producing shales, which are worked at Clippens and Walkinshaw. Near Pollokshields, at Thornliebank, and to the east of Barrhead there are small outliers of millstone grit consisting of yellow sandstones ; and along the extreme north-east corner of the county to the south of Glasgow the true Coal Measures of the great Lanarkshire and Stirlingshire basin are brought in by a fault which throws them down against the Carboniferous Limestone series. Volcanic dykes of Tertiary age run across the older rocks at various points, some very well marked examples occurring near the centre of the southern boi'der. The Glacial deposits are well marked and interesting, the clays at Jordanhill to the north of the Clyde and near Paisley having yielded numerous species of Foraminifcra and arctic shells. The beds of economic value are all extensively worked. In 1882 the eighteen collieries within the county produced 114,324 tons of coal out of a total of 20,515,134 tons for all Scotland, 164,523 tons of ironstone out of a total of 2,404,177 tons, 90,804 tons of oil-shale out of a total of 994,487 tons, and 22,554 tons of fireclay out of a total of 435,457 tons. Limestones are also quarried in large quantities for smelting purposes and for the manufacture of lime,— one thin but valuable bed at Orchard, 4 miles south of Glasgow, producing a cement that “ sets ” under water. Copperas is obtained from the iron pyrites got in the shale, and at one time alum-shale was worked at Hurlet in the north-east and copper in the volcanic rocks about Lochwinnoch.
Farming operations do not differ in detail from those carried on in the adjoining middle and lower wards of Lanarkshire. The climate is very variable ; and, as the prevailing west and south-west winds come in from the Atlantic warm and full of moisture, contact with the colder land causes a׳cry heavy rains, and the western part of Renfrewshire is one of the wettest districts in Scotland, the mean annual rainfall amounting to over 60 inches. The mean annual temperature is about 48°. The hilly district has a good deal of moss and moorland, but the soil, which is a light earth, is also over considerable areas deep enough to produce good pasture. In the undulating middle district the soil is generally deeper and
better, particularly along the streams, where there are tracts of good liaughland, but it is also in many places thin and poor. There is a considerable amount of pasture, and the principal crops are oats and barley. On the Hat lands adjoining the Clyde the soil is a rich alluvium which, except when soured by excessive rain, pro-
According to the agricultural returns for 1884 the total area under crops was 95,353, a percentage of 603־57) 8־ in 1874). The area under corn crops in 1884 was 17,502 acres; under green crops, 6,683 acres ; under rotation of grasses, 22,997 acres ; under permanent pasture, 47,880 acres; orchards and market-gardens, 158 acres ; and woodland, 5424. Of the corn land more than four-fifths was under oats, which occupied 14,132 acres, while 2229 were under wheat, and only 178 under barley. Potatoes were grown on 4351 acres, and turnips and swedes on 2332 ; while under beans, rye, vetches, &c., there are about 1300 acres annually. The total number of horses in 1884 was 3331 ; the number of cattle to every 100 acres under cultivation was 288־, the average for Scotland being 23'6. The large towns in the county and neighbourhood account for a great number of cattle being kept for dairy and feeding purposes. The number of sheep to every 100 acres under cultivation was 33T, the average for Scotland being 145T. The number of pigs was 1952. According to the Miscellaneous Statistics of the United Kingdom (1879) 5735 proprietors owned 155,321 acres with an estimated gross rental of £990,898. Sir M. R. Shaw Stewart possessed 24,951 acres, Allan Gilmour of Eaglesham 16,516, A. A. Spiers of Elderslie 11,259, H. Lee Harvey of Castlesemple 6500, Sir W. Stirling Maxwell 4773, Lord Blantyre 4449, Duncan Darroch of Gourock 4248, and IV. Mure of Caldwell 3624.
Besides the coal, iron, and oil industries already mentioned, the county has extensive, varied, and valuable manufactures, of which the chief are noticed in the separate articles on Greenock and Paisley. Elsewhere there are chemical works, engineering works, foundries, and bleaching, dyeing, and weaving works. There are throughout the shire a large number of excellent roads; and numerous lines and branches of the Caledoniau and the Glasgowand South-Western systems afford ample railway communication along the centre, north, and west for both general traffic and minerals. The population has risen from 78,501 in 1801 to 216,947 in 1871 and to 263,374 in 1881 (126,743 males, 136,631 females), more than 100,000 of the increase having taken place between 1851 and 1881. Of the whole number 49,681 men and 21,734 women were engaged in industrial handicrafts or dealt in manufactured substances, and of these 7741 men and 15,547 women were connected with the making of textile fabrics, while 7986 men and 172 women were connected with the working of mineral substances.
The Redistribution Act passed in 1885 extended the parliamentary representation of the county from one to two members. The only royal burgh is Renfrew, which is separately noticed, as are also the parliamentary burghs of Greenock and Paisley. The county also contains part of the south side of Glasgow and its suburbs, the parliamentary burgh of Port Glasgow, the police burghs of Pollokshaws, Gourock, and Johnstone, and a number of small towns and villages.
Historically Renfrewshire first appears as part of the territory of the Damnonii, and thereafter it was part of the British kingdom of Strathclyde. The western part, then known as Strathgryfe, was granted by David I. to Walter, the first high stewai-d of Scotland, and the Stewarts had long a local connexion with it. Somerled, Lord of the Isles, was defeated and slain in the neighbourhood of the burgh of Renfrew in 1164 ; and Marjory Bruce is said to have been killed by a fall from her horse at Knock Hill between Paisley and Renfrew in 1316. In 1404 the county, which had previously formed part of Lanark, was erected into a separate jurisdiction by Robert III., who created his son James baron of Renfrew, a title still held by the eldest son of the reigning sovereign. In the end of the 17th century the district was famous for its witches ; and in 1685, after the failure of the earl of Argyll’s ill-conducted enterprise, the earl himself was taken prisoner on the bank of the White Cart opposite Inchinnan church, at the spot marked by the “ Argyll Stone,” now within the policies of Blythswood House.
See Crawfurd, Description of the Shire of Renfrew (1710); Hamilton of Wishaw, Description of the Sheriffdom of Lanark and Renfrew (Maitland Club, 1831); Hector, Selections from the Judicial Records of Renfrewshire (1876-78); and A History of the Witches of Renfrewshire (Paisley, 1809 and 1877).
RENFREW, a royal and parliamentary burgli and the county town of the above county, is situated in the northeast near the south bank of the Clyde, connected with which is a small harbour. The main part of the town is gathered round four streets branching out from an open
duces very heavy crops, a large extent being under wheat. Although miueral workings have injured agriculture in several localities, the large towns in the county and neighbourhood have stimulated improvements, and the arable area has steadily increased. The following table gives a classification of holdings in 1875 and 1880 :—
space called the cross. The town-hall, erected in 1871-73, and restored after partial destruction by fire in 1878, has a massive square tower rising to a height of 105 feet. The railway station is 6 miles west of Glasgow. The industries are connected with two shipbuilding yards, a chemical work, a forge, a dye work, and weaving. Population in 1881, 5115.
The town, which is spoken of as a burgh in 1160, seems to have been in the 16th and early in the 17th century the principal port on the Clyde, one branch of which ran in a channel, now silted up, close behind the houses on the north side of High Street. The original castle of the Stewards seems to have stood on the island called “ The King’s Inch,” between the two channels of the river. Renfrew is one of the Kilmarnock group of parliamentary burghs.
RENI, Guido (1575-1642), a prime master in the Bolognese school of painting, and one of the most admired artists of the period of incipient decadence in Italy, was born at Calvenzano near Bologna on 4th November 1575. He is most usually named Guido. His father was a musician of repute, a player on the flageolet; he wished to bring the lad up to perform on the harpsichord. At a very childish age, however, Guido displayed a determined bent towards the art of form, scribbling some attempt at a drawing here, there, and everywhere. He was only nine years of age when Denis Calvart took notice of him, received him into his academy of design by the father’s permission, and rapidly brought him forward, so that by the age of thirteen Guido had already attained marked proficiency. Albani and Domenichino became soon afterwards pupils in the same academy. With Albani Guido was very intimate up to the earlier period of manhood, but they afterwards became rivals, both as painters and as heads of ateliers, with a good deal of asperity on Albani’s part; Domenichino was also pitted against Reni by the policy of Annibale Caracci. Guido was still in the academy of Calvart when he began frequenting the opposition school kept by Lodovico Caracci, whose style, far in advance of that of the Flemish painter, he dallied with. This exasperated Calvart. Him Guido, not yet twenty years of age, cheerfully quitted, transferring himself openly to the Caracci academy, in which he soon became prominent, being equally skilful and ambitious. He had not been a year with the Caracci when a work of his excited the wonder of Agostino and the jealousy of Annibale. Lodovico cherished him, and frequently painted him as an angel, for the youthful Reni was extremely handsome. After a while, however, Lodovico also felt himself nettled, and he patronized the competing talents of Guercino. On one occasion Guido had made a copy of Annibale’s Descent from the Cross; Annibale was asked to retouch it, and, finding nothing to do, exclaimed pettishly, “He knows more than enough ” (“Costui ne sa troppo”). On another occasion Lodovico, consulted as umpire, lowered a price which Reni asked for an early picture. This slight determined the young man to be a pupil no more. He left the Caracci, and started on his own account as a competitor in the race for patronage and fame. A renowned work, the story of Callisto and Diana, had been completed before he left.
Guido was faithful to the eclectic principle of the Bolognese school of painting. He had appropriated some-
thing from Calvart, much more from Lodovico Caracci ; he studied with much zest after Albert Dürer ; he adopted the massive, sombre, and partly uncouth manner of Caravaggio. One day Annibale Caracci made the remark that a style might be formed reversing that of Caravaggio in such matters as the ponderous shadows and the gross common forms ; this observation germinated in Guido’s mind, and he endeavoured after some such style, aiming constantly at suavity. Towards 1602 he went to Rome with Albani, and Rome remained his headquarters for twenty years. Here, in the pontificate of Paul V. (Borghese), he was greatly noted and distinguished. In the garden-house of the Rospigliosi Palace he painted the vast fresco which is justly regarded as his masterpiece— Phoebus and the Hours preceded by Aurora. This exhibits his second manner, in which he had deviated far indeed from the promptings of Caravaggio. He founded now chiefly upon the antique, more especially the Niobe group and the Venus de’ Medici, modified by suggestions from Raphael, Correggio, Parmigiano, and Paul Veronese. Of this last painter, although on the whole he did not get much from him, Guido was a particular admirer ; he used to say that he would rather have been Paul Veronese than any other master—Paul was more nature than art. The Aurora is beyond doubt a work of pre-eminent beauty and attainment ; it is stamped with pleasurable dignity, and, without being effeminate, has a more uniform aim after graceful selectness than can readily be traced in previous painters, greatly superior though some of them had been in impulse and personal fervour of genius. The pontifical chapel of Montecavallo was assigned to Reni to paint ; but, being straitened in payments by the ministers, the artist made off to Bologna. He was fetched back by Paul V. with ceremonious éclat, and lodging, living, and equipage were supplied to him. At another time he migrated from Rome to Naples, having received a commission to paint the chapel of S. Gennaro. The notorious cabal of three painters resident in Naples—Corenzio, Caracciolo, and Ribera—offered, however, as stiff an opposition to Guido as to some other interlopers who preceded and succeeded him. They gave his servant a beating by the hands of two unknown bullies, and sent by him a message to his master to depart or prepare for death ; Guido waited for no second warning, and departed. He now returned to Rome ; but he finally left that city abruptly, in the pontificate of Urban VIII., in consequence of an offensive reprimand administered to him by Cardinal Spinola. He had received an advance of 400 scudi on account of an altarpiece for St Peter’s, but after some lapse of years had made no beginning with the work. A broad reminder from the cardinal put Reni on his mettle ; he returned the 400 scudi, quitted Rome within a few days, and steadily resisted all attempts at recall. He now resettled in Bologna. He had taught as well as painted in Rome, and he left pupils behind him ; but on the whole he did not stamp any great mark upon the Roman school of painting, apart from his own numerous works in the papal city.
In Bologna Guido lived in great splendour, and established a celebrated school, numbering more than two hundred scholars. He himself drew in it, even down to his latest years.    On first returning to this city, he
charged about ¿621 for a full-length figure (mere portraits are not here in question), half this sum for a half-length, and £5 for a head. These prices must be regarded as handsome, when we consider that Domenichino about the same time received only ¿610, 10s. for his very large and celebrated picture, the Last Communion of St Jerome. But Guido’s reputation was still on the increase, and in process of time he quintupled his prices. He now left Bologna hardly at all ; in one instance, however, he went
off to Ravenna, and, along with three pupils, he painted the chapel in the cathedral with his admired picture of the Israelites Gathering Manna. His shining prosperity was not to last till the end. Guido was dissipated, generously but indiscriminately profuse, and an inveterate gambler. The gambling propensity had been his from youth, but until he became elderly it did not noticeably damage his fortunes. It grew upon him, and in a couple of evenings he lost the enormous sum of 14,400 scudi. The vice told still more ruinously on his art than on his character. In his decline he sold his time at so much per hour to certain picture dealers; one of them, the Shylock of his craft, would stand by, watch in hand, and see him work. Half-heartedness, half-performance, blighted his product: self-repetition and mere mannerism, with affectation for sentiment and vapidity for beauty, became the art of Guido. Some of these trade-works, heads or halffigures, were turned out in three hours or even less. It is said that, tardily wise, Reni left off gambling for nearly two years; at last he relapsed, and his relapse was followed not long afterwards by his death, caused by malignant fever. This event took place in Bologna on 18th August 1642 ; he died in debt, but was buried with great pomp in the church of S. Domenico.
Guido was personally modest, although he valued himself on his position in the art, and would tolerate no slight in that relation ; he was extremely upright, temperate in diet, nice in his person and his dress. He was fond of stately houses, but could feel also the charm of solitude. In his temper there was a large amount of suspiciousness; and the jealousy which his abilities and his successes excited, now from the Caracci, now from Albani, now from the monopolizing league of Neapolitan painters, may naturally have kept this feeling in active exercise. Of his numerous scholars, Simone Contarini, named II Pesarese, counts as the most distinguished ; he painted an admirable head of Reni, now in the Bolognese Gallery. The portrait in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence is from Reni’s own hand. Two other good scholars were Giacomo Semenza and Francesco Gessi.
The character of Guido’s art is so well known as hardly to call for detailed analysis, beyond what we have already intimated. His most characteristic style exhibits a prepense ideal, of form rather than character, with a slight mode of handling, and silvery, somewhat cold, colour. In working from the nude he aimed at perfection of form, especially marked in the hands and feet. But he was far from always going to choice nature for his model; he transmuted ad libitum, and painted, it is averred, a Magdalene of demonstrative charms from a vulgar-looking colour-grinder. His best works have beauty, great amenity, artistic feeling, and high accomplishment of manner, all alloyed by a certain core of commonplace ; in the worst pictures the commonplace swamps everything, and Guido has flooded European galleries with trashy and empty pretentiousness, all the more noxious in that its apparent grace of sentiment and form misleads the unwary into approval, and the dilettante dabbler into cheap raptures. Both in Rome and where-ever else he worked he introduced increased softness of style, which was then designated as the modern method. His pictures are mostly Scriptural or mythologic in subject, and between two and three hundred of them are to be found in various European collections—more than a hundred of these containing life-sized figures. The portraits which he executed are few,—those of Sixtus V., Cardinal Spada, and the so-called Beatrice Cenci being among the most noticeable. The identity of the last-named portrait is very dubious ; it certainly cannot have been painted direct from Beatrice, who had been executed in Rome before Guido ever resided there. Many etchings are attributed to him—some from his own works, and some after other masters ; they are spirited, but rather negligent.
Of other works not already noticed, the following should be named :—in Rome (the Vatican), the Crucifixion of St Peter, an example of the painter’s earlier manner ; in Forli, the Conception; in Bologna, the Alms of St Roch (early), the Massacre of the Innocents, and the Pieta, or Lament over the Body of Christ (in the church of the Mendicanti), which is by many regarded as Guido’s prime executive work ; in the Dresden Gallery, an Ecce Homo ; in Milan (Brera Gallery), Saints Peter and Paul; in Genoa (church of S. Ambrogio), the Assumption of the Virgin ; in the Berlin Gallery, St Paul the Hermit and St Anthony in the Wilderness. The celebrated picture of Fortune (in the Capitol) is one of Reni’s finest treatments of female form ; as a specimen of male form, the Samson Drinking from the Jawbone of an Ass (Turin Gallery) might be named beside it. One of his latest works of mark is the
Ariadne, which used to be in the Gallery of the Capitol. The Louvre contains twenty of his pictures, the National Gallery of London seven, and others were once there, now removed to other public collections. The most interesting of the seven is the small Coronation of the Virgin, painted on copper, an elegantly finished work, more pretty than beautiful. It was probably painted before the master quitted Bologna for Rome.
For the life and works of Hem, see Passeri, Vice de' Pittori, and Malvasia, Felsina Pittvice ; also Lanzi, Storia PiCtorica.    (W. M. Ii.)
RENNELL, James (1742-1830), probably the most celebrated of English geographers, was born on 3d December 1742, near Chudleigh in Devonshire, where his father John Rennell, a man apparently of gentle blood, was the owner of a small farm called Waddon.@@1 The register of Chudleigh records the baptism of James Rennell on 21st December. John Rennell, who had married Ann Clark in 1738, seems to have fallen into embarrassed circumstances, and to have taken service in the artillery, with which he served in the duke of Cumberland’s campaign in Flanders of 1747-48. The date of his death is uncertain, but he appears never to have rejoined his family. As a boy the son James found a valuable friend in the then vicar of Chudleigh, Gilbert Burrington, by whose advice and assistance he entered the navy in the beginning of 1756. Throughout his Indian career Rennell kept up a regular correspondence with Mr Burrington, and always regarded him with affection and gratitude.
The earliest of Rennell’s existing letters show him, in March 1758, as an acting midshipman on board the “ Brilliant,” 36, Captain Parker, afterwards the famous Admiral Sir Hyde Parker, the elder of two of that name. When attached to the “ Brilliant ” James Rennell was present at several of those desultory expeditions against the French coast and shipping on which so much strength was squandered in the wars with France. Among these was a landing directed against the works and ships at Cherbourg (August 1758), and two other expeditions to the vicinity of St Malo, which were more futile, and the last of which ended somewhat disastrously. A MS. plan of the Bay of St Cast, where the x־e-embarkation took place (September 11, 1758), executed by James Rennell at the age of sixteen, and probably his first attempt at topographical work, is now before us. It bears the inscription “ Plan of St Cas Bay, J.· Rennel feet. 1758. To the Rt. Honble. Lord Howe this plan is dedicated by his obedient humble servant, J. Rennel.”@@2
In 1760 Captain Parker, leaving the “Brilliant,” took the “Norfolk” to India, and Rennell was to have gone with him, but through some accident missed his ship and went out in the “America,” 50, Captain Haldane. On reaching India he rejoined Captain Parker, now in command of the “Grafton,” 58, with the fleet engaged in the blockade of Pondicherry, which Coote was besieging on the landward side.
The Annual Register for 1830, in a sketch of Rennell’s career, gives an anecdote for which we cannot vouch, finding no allusion to it in his letters. It is to the effect
that, some sloops of war belonging to the enemy being moored in shallow water, Rennell asked the use of a boat. Accompanied by one sailor he reconnoitred the sloops, and ascertained what he had surmised to be true, viz., that owing to an unusually high tide it was possible to reach those vessels. This information was acted on with complete success. Whatever amount of truth there may be in this anecdote, we know, at least, from his letters that he took part in the cutting out of the “ Baleine ” and “Hermione,” the former a 40-gun frigate, the latter an armed Indiaman, both at anchor before Pondicherry, within a half musket-shot of the place, and that he was a volunteer in one of the boat divisions which attacked the “ Baleine.” This vessel had no sails bent, and the captors, being exposed for an hour to a very heavy fire from the ramparts, lost severely.
We do not know what good guidance had first turned the lad’s attention to surveying, but his letters show that he went to India provided with useful books and instruments, and they contain from time to time notices of various surveys executed by him, e.g., of the harbour of Trinconomal¿ (or Trincomalee, as we now call it), and of the bay and roads of Diego Rayes,@@3 whither the East Indian fleet had gone as the rendezvous of an intended attack on Mauritius, which did not come off.
Captain Parker appears to have been friendly to Rennell, but had little hope of obtaining promotion in the navy for him, and counselled him to try his fortune in the Company’s service. Rennell acquiesced, and in the summer of 1762 went, apparently as a surveyor, on board a Company’s vessel which was despatched on a reconnaissance to Manila and the neighbouring islands. The only trace we have been able to find of this voyage consists in sundry charts and coast-views published by Alexander Dalrymple, a friend of Rennell’s in after days. Such are the Bay of Camorta in the Nicobar Islands, 1762; View of Quedah; Chart of Sambeelan Islands in the Straits of Malacca, 1763 ; View of Malacca, July, 1762; Chart of Abai Harbour, on north-west of Borneo, 1762.
Of the expedition we have no particulars, but we gather that Rennell looked back on his treatment and service on board with dissatisfaction, though his performance of the duties assigned him recommended him as a man of merit to the authorities at Fort St George. He had missed a great chance in the navy, for during his absence orders came for the expedition against Manila, which ended in the capture of that place in 1762,—an expedition in which Captain Parker took the “Santissima Trinidad,” a prize of enormous value. Rennell, however, made many friends at Madras, and had several offers of employment, though he did not think himself at liberty to accept any till the return of Captain Parker and his final discharge from the “Grafton’s” books (July 1763). He now obtained the command of a vessel in the Government service, but whilst she lay off Madras, shortly afterwards, a cyclone destroyed every ship save one in the roads, and Rennell’s among them. Fortunately he was on shore when the gale came on ; but he lost everything.
The city of Madura was then being besieged by a British force in combination with one sent by the nawab of the Carnatic ; and Mr Palk, governor of Fort St George, employed Rennell@@4 to superintend the landing of troops and stores for that operation. For his conduct of this service he received the thanks of the Government and a handsome present. Apparently about this time
@@@1    There were several branches of the family round Chudleigh, and the name occurs on several monuments in Chudleigh church. Four generations of Thomas Rennells, clergymen of some note, were reckoned as relations by Janies Rennell:—(1) T. Rennell, fellow of Exeter College, Oxford, M.A. of 1699, rector of Bishop’s Leighton ; (2) T. R., rector of Barnack, called “a very profound scholar . . . with a rich library (3) T. R., of King’s College, Cambridge, master of the Temple, and dean of Winchester ; (4) T. R., editor of the British Critic, Christian advocate at Cambridge, vicar of Kensington. As Rennell calls the second his cousin, the first was probably his grandfather’s brother ; he could hardly have been his father’s brother on account of the dates.
@@@2    He writes the name indifferently Rennel and Rennell till February 2, 1760, when he says to Mr Burrington :—“You desired that in future I would write my name with a double l. I shall in the future, but am inclined to think it will be of little use to me.” There is, we believe, here some reference to the clerical relations, whom he at that time thought neglectful.
@@@3    From Rennell’s notice of its size and position this is evidently the island now called Rodriguez, about 350 miles north-east of Mauritius.
@@@4    This siege of Madura belongs to an obscure passage of Indian history, an account of which must be sought in Nelson’s Manual of Madura (Madras, 1868), and Bishop Caldwell’s History of Tinnerelly (Madras, 1881). Mohammed Yusuf Khan, a man of great ability, who had been “ commander of all the Company’s sepoys” (at Madras), and afterwards governor of Madura for the nawab and the Company, threw off his allegiance in the beginning of 1763. A joint expedition was sent against him, and for a long time had indifferent success. Eventually Marchand, the chief of a French contingent in Yusufs service, betrayed him to the English commandant, and in the latter part of 1764 it is said that he was hanged, whether by order of the Fort St George Government or of the nawab is doubtful.
also he made surveys of the coast about Cape Calymere, and of the Paumben Passage. Shortly afterwards, having gone to Calcutta, he found in Captain Tinker, the officer commanding the king’s squadron there, a gentleman with whom he had been slightly acquainted in the navy. There was evidently something very engaging in Rennell’s manner, aspect, and character, for others as well as Captain Tinker immediately endeavoured to interest in his fortunes the governor of the presidency. This was Henry Vansittart, the successor of Clive, and father of Nicolas Vansittart, who was so long chancellor of the exchequer (1812-1823), and died Lord Bexley. The result was the appointment of Rennell as surveyor of the E. I. Company’s dominions in Bengal,
“before,” as he writes, “I was scarcely apprised of the matter.” A few days later he received a commission “for practitioner engineer in the citadel erecting at Calcutta near Fort William”— the fortress, in fact, now so well known by the latter name.
Rennell, in a letter announcing his appointment, calls it that of “surveyor-general,” but this term is not used in the official record, dated April 9, 1764.@@1 The date of his commission in the corps of engineers, as ensign (or “practitioner engineer,” as the junior rank was termed), is the same. The corps of Bengal Engineers, which after a creditable existence of just about a century was amalgamated with the Royal Engineers in 1862, was then in its infancy. Only four officers appear as having had commissions earlier than James Rennell, though the subsequent introduction of several officers with higher rank eventually placed more than this number over his head.
Practically, though he was sometimes engaged in works of construction or demolition,@@2 Rennell’s־work as a surveyor occupied the whole of his Indian service, which extended to thirteen years only. In the course of this employment he reduced to order and substantial accurac}' the map of Bengal, and accumulated a great part of the material which he afterwards utilized in the determination of all the important points embraced in the first approximately correct map of India. His merits were highly appreciated, and his rise was rapid. In January 1767 his position was raised to that of surveyor-general, and at the same time he was promoted to captain.
In their letter to the court of directors, reporting this promotion, the council at Fort William say :—
“ We have appointed Captain Rennell, a young man of distinguished merit in this branch, surveyor-general, and directed him to form one general chart from those already made, and such as are now on hand, as they can be-collected in. This, though attended with great labour, does not prevent his prosecuting his own surveys, the fatigue of which, with the desperate wounds he has lately received in one of them, have already left him but a shattered constitution.’’@@3
This passage refers to a memorable passage in Rennell’s career, which had nearly proved its tragical termination. Bengal proper was in those early days of the Company’s administration very far from being the tranquil country that we have known it for so many years (except indeed during its partial share in the agitations of 1857, from the mutiny of several regiments within its boundaries). And it was about a year before the promotion just mentioned that Rennell, on one of his surveying campaigns in northern Bengal, met with the adventure in question.
The districts in that quarter (Purniah, Dinajpur, Rangpur, &c.) were at that time habitually ravaged by bodies of marauders, who had their headquarters in the forest-tracts at the foot of the Himalayas, and beyond British jurisdiction. From these forests they used to issue annually in large bands, plundering and levying exactions far and wide, and returning to their jungle-asylum when threatened with pursuit. A few years before (1763) a large body of them had plundered the city of Dacca. They professed to belong to a religious fraternity and were commonly known as the Sanyasis, a name under which they are frequently mentioned in the correspondence of Warren Hastings, sometimes as Fakirs. The affair took place in the semi-independent state of Kucli Behar, near the border of Bhutan. Hearing that a party of native soldiers had been sent to put down one of those bands, which had just taken and plundered the capital of the state, Rennell hastened to join the detachment with his own small escort, and came up with it just after the banditti had received a beating. The next day (21st February 1766) was spent in pursuit of the enemy, and in the afternoon Rennell and two other officers, who had gone forward to reconnoiti’e, found themselves in presence of a large body of the Sanyasis. Their small escort of native horse rode off, and the officers were surrounded. Rennell’s Armenian assistant was killed, his engineer subaltern fought his way clear with a slight wound,
Rennell himself retreated fighting to the detachment, and was put in a palankin, covered with sabre-wounds. One blow had cut into his right shoulder blade and through several ribs ; his left arm was severely cut in three places, and he had other wounds besides. For surgical help lie had to be sent to Dacca, 300 miles off, in an open boat, which he had to direct himself, as he lay on his face, whilst the natives applied onions as a cataplasm to his shoulder. He was long given up, but, under the tender care of his friend Dr Russell, he recovered, though his health was long affected by the loss of blood and severity of the injuries.
On two later occasions Rennell’s letters speak of his being attacked or waylaid whilst on survey, in one case by irregulars in the employment of the “jemitdars,” i. e., “zemindars,” in districts remote from Calcutta, and on another occasion by the “ Bootese,” or Bhutias, as we now call them. In a letter dated 30th October 1770 he says in his brief way :—
“ I must not forget to tell you that about a month ago a large leopard jumped at me, and I was fortunate enough to kill him by thrusting my bayonet down his throat. Five of. my men were wounded by him, tour of them very dangerously. You see 1 am a lucky fellow at all times.”
We gather from this passage that it was common in those days for officers to carry bayonets,—a circumstance which is also set forth in one of the best known portraits of General Wolfe.
Shortly after this last adventure Rennell was allowed to carry out, with a force under his command, a project that he had formed for the suppression of the banditti in the north. Writing on the 3d March 1771, he speaks of having returned successful from this expedition, after marching 320 miles in fifteen days, which he justly observes was “pretty good travelling in that climate, especially for soldiers.” This did not, however, put an end to the Sanyasis, for they are spoken of by Hastings as still a pest in 1773 and 1774.
Rennell’s usual residence was at Dacca, though his visits to Calcutta were at least annual. On one of these he married (October 15, 1772) Miss Jane Thackeray, one of the sixteen children of Archdeacon Thackeray, who had been headmaster of Harrow from 1746 to his death in 1760, and who has been called by Dr Butler the “second founder” of the school.4 Among Dr Thackeray’s descendants are to be counted many distinguished Anglo-Indians ; and William Makepeace Thackeray of the Civil Service, the grandfather of the great writer who has made that combination of names familiar and illustrious, was a friend of IIennell’s and the brother of his wife.
Indian careers were not in those days generally prolonged. Fortunes were reaped more rapidly than in later years, and death likewise mowed with swifter strokes. In the list of Bengal engineers there are thirteen, including Rennell, who received commissions prior to 1770, the earliest in 1761. Of these thirteen, before 1780, six were dead, four had resigned, one had been dismissed, and two only in the year named remained in the service.
Rennell’s health had been remarkably good up to his encounter with the Sanyasis, but from that time it became permanently deteriorated, and in 1777 he resigned, having attained the rank of major two years earlier (January 1775). In those days no regular pension-system existed ; but, when permission for Rennell’s retirement was given, in December 1776, by the governor and council, it was accompanied by the grant of a pension of 500 rupees a month from the Calcutta treasury, till the court’s pleasure should be known. In passing this resolution the board remark that they “ think fit to adopt this mode as most satisfactory to Major Rennell, whose fortune will not permit him to leave India without some certainty of support in the decline of life.”@@5 It is impossible, in reading this last phrase, to withhold a smile at the proverbial longevity of pensioners, when we remember that the illustrious subject of the resolution drew the allowance for fifty-three years after his retirement. The court of directors, after his arrival in England, conferred a pension of £600 a year in lieu of the Calcutta one.
Major Rennell and his wife, with a daughter born at St Helena during a stoppage on the way home, reached England, 12th February 1778. For the rest of his long life he lived in London, and for much the greater part of the time in Nassau Street (formerly called Suffolk Street) near the Middlesex Hospital, a quarter then inhabited by gentlefolks, though now quite deserted by fashion.
When applying in 1776 for permission to retire, Rennell had written—“I desire not to eat the bread of idleness, but rather to make myself as useful as possible, even after my return to England, ” and went on to submit a scheme for the utilization of the large mass of geographical material laid up and perishing in the India House.@@6  He cannot have been long in England before he buckled to this task. He is said to have been offered employment of a considerable character and to have declined it. Of this we know no more ; but apparently he had laid out his own course of life, in devoting him-
@@@1    Extract from Bengal Public Consultations of that date (Records in India Office). “ Mr Hugh Cameron, who was employed on this establishment as surveyor of the new lands, being deceased 16th ultimo, it is agreed to appoint Mr James Renall (sic) in his room, who is recommended to us as a capable person, and by specimens of some surveys made by him which the President now lays before the Board, promises to be a very useful servant.”
@@@2    One of his exceptional employments (July 1768) was the demolition of fortifications round Chandernagore, which the French had commenced “ expressly contrary to the treaty of Paris.”
@@@3    Printed in Long’s Extracts from the Fort William Records, p. 487 (Calcutta, 1869).
@@@4    Rennell, in announcing his marriage to Mr Burlington, speaks of his wife as the “daughter of the late Mr Thackeray who kept Harrow School.”
@@@5    MS. Records in the India Office.    6 India Office Records.
self to the laborious literary elucidation of geography, and to that enjoyment of the society of his friends to which he often refers in his correspondence as the chief happiness to which he looked forward in his retirement.
His first publication after his return was A Chart of the Banks and Currents at the Lagullas in South Africa (1778), accompanied by a memoir. In the same year appeared A Description of the Roads in Bengal and Bahar, <t·c., printed by order of the Court of Directors. This is a small 12mo, and only a book of routes. In 1781 came out his Bengal Atlas, containing Maps of the Theatre of War and Commerce on that side of Hindustan, compiled from the original Surveys, icith Tables of Routes and Distances from Calcutta, through the principal Internal Navigations. This is in folio, and contains twenty-one maps, a work leaving far behind everything in Indian cartography published up to that date. In the same year Rennell read before the Royal Society, to which he had been elected March 8, “ An Account of the Ganges and Burrampootur Rivers.”
These were preliminary flights. His great work on Indian geography was the Memoir of a Map of Hindustan ; and even this was of gradual growth. In its first form, as published in 1783, it contained only pp. xiv and 132. A second edition in 1785 had considerable additions. In 1788 a Memoir was issued altogether enlarged in scope, and of this again a second edition appeared in 1792, and a third, still enlarged, in 1793, which contains pp. cxli + 428 + 51, pp. 820 in all. The work, which thus went through five developments in all, was that which especially established Rennell’s reputation,—though his knowledge and ability were appreciated in London from an early date after his return to Europe, and the continued scries of works which he issued from time to time during some five and thirty years spread and augmented his fame as a geographer. After a brief interval of extreme old age, the series was resumed in the publication of valuable posthumous works.
But, to return to earlier days, Rennell speedily found a place in the most intelligent circles of society, counting among his friends, as years passed on, not only men of science and literature like Sir Joseph Banks, Sir Everard Home, Bishop Horsley, Sir George Staunton, Dr Robertson the historian, Dean Vincent, Mr Alexander Dalrymple, Mr William Marsden, &c., but also such men as Lord Momington (afterwards the famous Marquis Wellesley), Lord Spencer (first lord of the Admiralty 1794-1801), and Lord Holland. His closest friends appear to have been Sir Joseph Banks, Lord Spencer, and Dr Gillies the historian, and in later years Captain (afterwards Sir Francis) Beaufort.
In 1791 he received from the Royal Society, at the hands of the president Sir Joseph Banks, the Copley medal, assigned him for his geographical labours, and especially for his paper “ On the Camel’s Rate, as applied to Geographical Purposes.” The following passage, perhaps not quite free from exaggeration, occurs in the president’s address on this occasion : —
“ 1 should, rejoice could I say that Britons . . . could boast a general map of their island as well executed as the Major's delineation of Bengal and Bahar, a tract of countries considerably larger in extent than the whole of Great Britain and Ireland ; but it would be injustice to the Major’s industry, were I not here to state that the districts he has perambulated and planned exceed probably in extent the whole tract of surveyed country to be found in the maps of the Eurojiean kingdoms put together; while the accuracy of his particular surveys stands yet unrivalled by the most laborious performance of the best county maps this nation has hitherto been able to produce.”
In 1792 Rennell published The Marches of the British Army in the Peninsula of India during the Campaign of 1790-91, illustrated and explained by a map and other plates; and in 1794 an 8vo pamphlet entitled War with France the only security of Britain, by an “ Old Englishman. ” Some years before this time Rennell had also turned his attention to African geography, in connexion with the African Association, of which he was one of the earliest members. Of this body, which was the progenitor, though not the immediate parent, of the Royal Geographical Society,@@1 an account may be read in Air Clements Markham’s most interesting record of the fifty years’ work of that society. The association was established in 1788, and sent out several travellers of note. Maps and geographical memoirs from Rennell’s pen were issued on various occasions ; and especially were his African labours associated with the name and first journey of Mungo Park. Rennell published in all some five or six dissertations on African geography. And this branch of his work may account, after a fashion, for an odd confusion made in a public report of Livingstone’s burial in Westminster Abbey.@@2
The Philosophical Transactions, whose atmosphere in those days was not confined to the same rarefied altitudes as at present, contain occasional papers from Rennell’s hand. We have mentioned the paper on “Camel’s Rate ” in 1791 ; in 1793 we have “ Observations on a Current that often prevails to the westward of Seilly, and endangers the safety of ships” (the current in question has since been known by Rennell’s name), in 1809 “ On the Effect of Westerly Winds in raising the Level of the British Channel.” In the
Archscologia we find the following:—in vol. xvii. p. 242, “Observations on the Topography of Ancient Babylon,” and in vol. xxi. three dissertations:—(1) p. 92, “On the Voyage and Place of Shipwreck of St Paul”; (2) p. 138, “Concerning the Identity of the Remains at Jerasli, whether they are those of Gerasa or Pella ” ; (3) p. 501, read May 1S26, when the venerable author was in his ! eighty-fourth year, “Concerning the place where Julius Caesar landed in Britain. ” This does not, we believe, exhaust the list of his occasional writings, and he gave much incidental help to other writers who touched liis own subjects, c.g., to Dean Vincent in his well-known work on the Commerce and Navigation of the Ancients. The detail of these minor works has carried us away from the chronological order of his productions. That which added most largely to the reputation acquired as the geographer of India was his book on the Geographical System of Herodotus, 4to, with eleven maps (1800). Another great task undertaken by him was a Treatise on the Comparative Geography of Western Asia. On this field he had formed a most comprehensive project, too vast indeed for the time of life at which he undertook it, when probably he had already reached threescore. Of this project his Herodotus was indeed itself a portion, and others were his separate publications of a Dissertation on the Topography of the Plain of Troy (4to, 1811), and of the Illustrations of the Expeditions of , Cxjrus and the Retreat of the Ten Thousand, and an additional mass of matter, prepared with many years’ labour, and left behind him in a very perfect state of transcription, was published after his death by his daughter, in 2 vols. 8vo, with an atlas (1831).
Another posthumous work was An Investigation of the Currents of the Atlantic Ocean, and of those which prevail between the Indian Ocean and the Atlantic. For this work Rennell had examined and collated the logs of a vast number of the ships of war and Indiamen which had traversed those seas during thirty or forty years, re-computing observations, and reducing them to one general system. The results of this toil were left ready for the press, and were published in large charts, with a thin volume of text, under the editorship of Mr John Purdy, in 1832. The first contributions to the scientific knowledge of currents had been Rennell’s papers on the Lagullas, and on the Seilly Currents, and the present work contained nearly all that existed in the generalization of such data till more than twenty years after his death.@@3
“Major Rennell,” says an account of him, in a work privately printed by a member of his wife’s family,@@4 “was of middle size, well proportioned, with a grave yet sweet expression on his countenance, which is said to have conciliated the regard of all he spoke with.”
The existence of this happy faculty we have already noticed as deducible from his earlier history in India. The sweet gravity of which the writer speaks is very recognizable in liis portraits, alike in middle life and in extreme old age.@@5 A contemporary, quoted in the work just referred to, said of him :—“ In his intercourse with his friends he possesses a remarkable flow of spirits, and abounds with interesting subjects of conversation ; at the same time, as to what relates to himself, he is one of the most diffident, unassuming men in the world.”
One of the obituary notices at the time of his death says that Rennell’s “political and religious feelings are said to have operated in causing him to decline the acceptance of an invitation to become a member of the French National Institute.” This can hardly have had any basis of fact. Rennell, in politics, was always attached to what would be called, in present language, the Liberal party; though his Liberalism, as we may gather from the title of his pamphlet of 1794, and from expressions used in the dedication to Earl Spencer of his Herodotus, had nothing of that character which loves to disparage those who are jealous for the greatness of England. As a matter of fact lie was elected a foreign associate of the Institute during the peace of Amiens, in 1802, and accepted the honour with unmistakable cordiality and satisfaction, as his reply, which we have seen, testifies. In his eighty-third year a gold medal was awarded to Rennell by the Royal Society of Literature ; and, as his infirmities prevented his attendance at their place of meeting, a deputation, headed by the president, visited him for the purpose of presenting it at his own house in Nassau Street.
When more than eighty-seven years of age Major Rennell slipped from a chair, and broke his thigh. He hardly ever left his bed afterwards, and died 29tli March 1830. He was buried in the nave of Westminster Abbey on the 6th April. A tablet to his memory, with a bust, stands in the north-west angle of the nave.
Mrs Rennell had died in 1810. Three children of the marriage
@@@1    There was an intermediate body called the Raleigh Club, founded in 1826-27, which actually developed into the R. G. S. Renncll’s great age doubtless prevented his joining the club. The society was founded the month after liis death.
@@@2    ‘‘At Livingstone’s feet lies the head of Major Reynell (sic), himself a noted African traveller.”—Times, April 20, 1874.
@@@3    See Mr A. G. Findlay in the Jour. Roy. Gcog. Soc., vol. xxiii.
@@@4    Memorials of the Thackeray Family, by the late Mrs Bayne.
@@@5    Among portraits we may mention one engraved by Cardon from a drawing by Scott, of whicli impressions were published in the European Magazine for 1802. and in both the posthumous editions of the Herodotus. There is aunt her profile, engraved by IJanicl after Dance, in a collection of portraits by these artists, and a medallion in porcelain executed at Paris, probably after his death, and showing him in old age. There is also the bust by Baily in Westminster Abbey; and an admirable wax relief of him in old age is in the possession of Major Rodd, liis grandson.
grew up. Of these, Thomas, the second, died in 1846 ; William, the third, went to India in the Civil Service, and died some years before his father (1819) ;@@1 Jane, the eldest, married Captain Rodd, afterwards Yice-Admiral Sir John Tremayne Rodd, K.C.B., and survived both her brothers, dying in 1863. It was through Lady Rodd’s active filial zeal that Rennell’s posthumous works were published, including, besides the two already named, a second edition of the Herodotus.
What has been said in the enumeration of his writings sufficiently shows how laboriously he worked. But to this great industry were joined in all his works sagacity, excellent judgment, and a love of truth which made him never ashamed to confess a difficulty, and always ready to do justice to other writers. The man whom we find already at fourteen serving as a midshipman in time of war could have grown up with little instruction but what he sought, and found for himself, in the course of his career. On many of the subjects on which he wrote, fresh light has been so abundant that the value of his works as guides has in great measure passed away, yet even now no one can deal with Herodotus or Xenophon without consulting Rennell’s views, directly or indirectly. Obliged to depend, as regards the former, for his text on the inaccurate translation of Beloe, it has been shown that Rennell’s sagacity often discerned the true meaning of the historian when his interpreter had gone astray. What he did for the geography of India, not by his own surveys merely, but by his labour on the often remoulded Memoir, in coordinating the information gathered during forty years, may be best appreciated by a comparison of the celebrated D’Anville’s Éclaircissemens Géographiques sur la Carte de VInde (1753) with the final edition of the Memoir (1793). Putting aside the great additions to positive knowledge which favoured the later writer, we are mistaken if the perusal of both works will not leave the impression that, in most of the qualities of a geographer, Rennell’s place is not in any respect behind that of the famous Frenchman, for whom he himself always entertained and expressed the deepest respect.
We conclude with an extract from a tribute to his memory which appeared in the Times of the day after his funeral in the Abbey:—
“Another characteristic of this amiable philosopher was the generous facility with which he imparted his stores of learning in conversation. A memory remarkably tenacious, and so well arranged as to be equally ready for the reception or for the distribution of knowledge, made him a depository of facts to which few ever applied in vain; adapting himself to the level of all who consulted him, he had the happy art of correcting their errors without hurting their feelings, and of leading them to truth without convicting them of ignorance.”
Till Rennell’s time it could hardly be said that England could boast of any geographer of the first class. His pre-eminence in that character is still undisputed, like that of D’Anville in France, and of Ritter in Germany.
In this sketch of Rennell’s career, use has been made of a mass of letters addressed, during his service in the navy and in India, to the Rev. G. Burlington, kindly lent by Hr C. Langley of Chudleigh ; of papers courteously communicated by Rennell’s descendants; of the “Memorials” quoted above; and of India Office records ; supplemented by a good deal of other research.    (H. Y.)
RENNES, a town of France, formerly the capital of Brittany and now the chief town of the department of Ille-et-Yilaine, is situated at the meeting of the Ille and the Vilaine and at the junction of several lines of railway connecting it with Paris (232 miles east-north-east), St Malo (51 miles north), Brest (147 west-north-west), Ac. It is the seat of an archbishop and the headquarters of the 10th corps d’armée (with a large arsenal and barracks). For the most part rebuilt on a regular plan since the seven days’ fire of 1720, the town is rendered more monotonous by the houses being of dark-coloured granite and nearly all after the same type. Of trade and industry there is little trace in the dull and deserted streets. The main portion of the old town occupies a hill which looks down on the confluence of the streams. Along the north side flows the Vilaine in a deep hollow bordered with quays and crossed by four bridges leading to the new town near the railway station. The canalized Ille forms the first section of the Ille and Ranee Canal which unites St Malo to Rennes, and then descends the Vilaine to Redon, and the canal from Nantes to Brest. The cathedral of Rennes is rebuilt in a pseudo-ionic style on the site of two churches dating originally from the 4th century. The archbishop’s palace occupies in part the site of the abbey of St Melaine, whose church is the sole specimen in the town of 11-13th century architecture. A colossal statue of the Virgin was placed above the dome of this church in 1867. In the palace is preserved the old altar screen from the cathedral, perhaps the finest in all France. The Mordelaise Gate, by which the dukes and bishops used to make their state entry into the town, is a curious example of 15th century architecture, and accidentally preserves a Latin inscription of the 3d century, a dedication by the Redones to the emperor Gordianus. Architecturally the finest building in the town is the old parliament house (now the court-house), designed by Jacques Debrosse in the 17th century, and decorated with statues of legal celebrities, carved work, and paintings by Coypel and Jouvenet. The town-house was erected in the first half of the 18th century by Gabriel, the architect· of the Place de la Concorde in Paris. In the modern building occupied by the faculties of law, science, and literature there are scientific collections of various kinds, and one of the finest picture galleries outside of Paris, with pieces by Paul Veronese, Tintoretto, Vandyck, Rembrandt, Rubens, Ac., and sketches by Michelangelo, Titian, and other great masters. The town library contains 50,000 volumes and 220 MSS.; and the municipal archives are of primary importance for the history of Brittany. The Promenade du Thabor, with a statue of Duguesclin, the adjoining botanic gardens, the Promenade de la Motte a little lower down, and the Mail, a fine avenue planted in 1657 by the duke of Chaulnes, add greatly to the beauty of Rennes. About 2 miles from the town is the castle of La Prévalaye. The local industries are varied but not extensive. The population of the town in 1881 numbered 57,430; that of the commune 60,974.
@@@1 There is in the R. M. Catalogue “Experimental Philosophy, or the Effects of Chemistry ; A Play in Three Acts, by William Rennell, Calcutta, 1807-8.”
Rennes, the chief city of the Redones, was formerly (like some other places in Gaul) called Condate (hence Condat, Condé), probably from its position at the confluence of two streams. Under the Roman empire it was included in Lugdunensis Tertia, and became the centre of various Roman roads still recognizable in the vicinity. The name Urbs Rubra given to it in the oldest chroniclers is explained by the bands of red brick still found in the foundations of its first circuit of walls. In 843 a.d. Nornenoé, Charles the Bald’s lieutenant, declared himself independent and took the title of king of the Bretons ; but the country was afterwards torn to pieces by the struggles of the various counts who wished to make themselves masters of it and by the invasions of the Normans. About the close of the 10th century Conan le Tort, count of Rennes, subdued the whole province, and it was his son and successor Geoffrey who first took the title duke of Brittany (q. v. ). It was at Rennes the dukes were crowned, and before entering the city by the Mordelaise Gate they had to swear to preserve the privileges of the church, the nobles, and the commons of Brittany. During the War of Succession the city was captured by Jean de Montfort in 1341, by Charles of Blois in 1342, and again by Jean de Montfort. During the troubles of the League the duke of Mercœur attempted to make himself independent at Rennes (1589), but his scheme was defeated by the loyalty of the local parliament. Henry IV. entered the city in state on May 9, 1598. An insurrection at Rennes caused by the taxes imposed by Louis XIV., in spite of the advice of the parliament, was cruelly suppressed by the duke of Chaulnes, governor of the province. The parliament was banished to Vannes till 1689, and the inhabitants crushed with forfeits and in great numbers put to death. The fire of 1720 which destroyed eight hundred houses completed the ruin of the town. During the last year of the monarchy Rennes more than once resisted the imposition of taxes not authorized by the states of Brittany. In 1765 the celebrated procureur-général La Chalotais was imprisoned, and in 1788 the parliament was suspended from May to October. At the commencement of the Revolution Rennes was again the scene of bloodshed caused by the discussion about doubling the third estate for the convocation of the states-general. On January 26, 1789, the students, with Moreau (afterwards general) at their head, broke into the hall where the nobles satin council in defiance of the decree of suspension issued against them by the Government. During the Reign of Terror Rennes suffered less than Nantes, partly through the courage and uprightness of the mayor Leperdit. It was soon afterwards the centre of the operations of the republican army against La Vendée. After the 10 th of Brumaire it was accused of royalism and put to ransom by Brune. Besides La Chalotais, Gerbier the advocate and Admiral De la Motte-Picquet were born at Rennes.
RENNIE, John (1761-1821), engineer and architect, was the son of a farmer, and was born at Phantassie, East Lothian, 7th June 1761. While attending the parish school of East Linton he had to pass the workshop of Andrew Meikle, the inventor of the thrashing machine, and evinced such a strong interest in the operations there in progress that the workmen were in the habit of lending him their tools and teaching him their various uses. In his twelfth year he left school and placed himself under Meikle, but at the end of two years he went to a school at Dunbar, in order to obtain a more thorough knowledge of mathematics and mechanical drawing. Afterwards he occasionally assisted Meikle, but before his eighteenth year he had erected several corn mills, on his ׳own account, while in the winter months he visited Edinburgh to attend the classes of physical science at the university. By Prof. Robison of Edinburgh he was introduced to Messrs Boulton & Watt of Soho near Birmingham, for whom in 1786 he superintended the construction of the Albion flour mills near Blackfriars Bridge, London. It is believed that the difficulties which occurred at the Albion mills in regard to the ebb and flow of the tide first led Rennie to the study of that branch of civil engineering connected with hydraulics and hydrodynamics, in which he became so celebrated as to have no rival after the death of Smeaton. Immediately after the completion of the Albion mills Rennie’s reputation was so firmly established in everything connected with mill work that he found himself in a very extensive line of business. In the construction of sugar mills in Jamaica and the other West Indian Islands he soon had almost a monopoly, and among ·other mills constructed by him in England mention may be made of the powder mill at Tunbridge, the great flour mill at Wandsworth, and the rolling and triturating mills at the Mint on Tower Hill. Wherever the machinery of his mills was impelled by steam, the engines of his friends Messrs Boulton Watt supplied the motive power. It is, however, on his achievements as an architect and civil engineer that the fame of Rennie chiefly rests. Of the bridges connecting the banks of the Thames at London, three have been built from his designs,—Southwark Bridge, in the construction of which he introduced a method of ׳employing cast iron which formed a new epoch in the history of bridge-building ; Waterloo Bridge, which then had no parallel for its magnitude, elegance, and solidity; and London Bridge, on the model of Waterloo Bridge. Bridges at Leeds, Musselburgh, Kelso, Newton-Stewart, Boston, New Galloway, and numerous other places bear similar testimony to his skill and taste. His earliest canal project was that of the Crinan Canal, and following it was the Lancaster Canal, which besides other difficulties presented that of an aqueduct over the Lune. His execution of these works so established his reputation that his opinion and assistance were required from all quarters in regard to similar undertakings, among others the construction of the Great Western Canal in Somersetshire, the Polbrook Canal in Cornwall, the Portsmouth Canal, and the Avon and Kennet Canal. But more important than these were his works in connexion with docks and harbours, his designs embracing the London Docks, the East and West India Docks at Blackwall, and docks at Hull, Greenock, Leith, Liverpool, and Dublin. The harbours of Queens-ferry, Berwick, Howth, Holyhead, Kingstown, Newhaven, and several others owe their security and convenience to his labours. But even these works mast yield to what he executed in connexion with the Government dockyards at Portsmouth, Chatham, Sheerness, and Plymouth. One other effort of his genius falls to be mentioned, the drainage of that vast tract of marsh-land bordering upon the rivers Trent, Witham, Welland, and Ouse which for cen
turies had baffled the skill of some of the ablest men in that department of civil engineering. Rennie’s industry was very extraordinary; though fond of the society of his select friends and of rational conversation, he never suffered amusement of any kind to interfere with his business, which seldom engaged him less than twelve hours and frequently fifteen in the day. His conversation was always amusing and instructive. In person he was of great stature and strength; and his noble bust by Chantrey, when exhibited in Somerset House, obtained the name of Jupiter Tonans. He died 16th October 1821.
His son Sir John Rennie (born August 30, 1794, died Sept. 1874) succeeded him as engineer to the Admiralty, and acquired a high reputation in the same line of business as his father. On the completion of the London Bridge from his father’s designs in 1831, he received the honour of knighthood. He was the author of The Theory, Formation, and Construction of British and Foreign Harbours, 4 vols., 1851-54.
RENT is classed in English law as an incorporeal hereditament, that is, a profit issuing out of a corporeal hereditament (see Real Estate). A rent issuing but of an incorporeal hereditament can only be possessed by the crown, or by a subject under statutory authority. Rent is said to lie in render, as distinguished from profits d prendre in general, which are said to lie in prender. At the present day rent is generally a sum of money paid for the occupation of land. It is important to notice that this conception of rent is attained at a comparatively late period of history. The earliest rent seems to have been a form of personal service, generally labour on the land, and wr as at the same time fixed by custom. The exaction of a competition or rack rent beyond that limited by custom was, if one may judge from the old Brehon law of Ireland, due to the presence upon the land of strangers in blood, probably at first outcasts from some other group.@@1 The strict feudal theory of rent admitted labour on the lord’s land as a lower form, and at the same time developed the military service due to the crown or a lord as a, higher form. Rent service is at once the oldest and the most dignified kind of existing rent. It is the only one to ■which the power of distress attaches at common law, giving the landlord a preferential right over other creditors exercisable without judicial authority (see Distress). In course of time the increasing importance of socage tenure, arising in part from the convenience of paying a certain amount, whether in money or kind, rather than comparatively uncertain services, led to the gradual evolution of the modern view of rent as a sum due by contract between two independent persons. At the same time the primitive feeling which regarded the position of landlord and tenant from a social rather than a commercial point of view is still of importance.
Rents as they now exist in England are divided into three great classes—rent service, rent charge, and rent seek. A rent service is so called because by it a tenure by means of service is created between the landlord and the tenant. The service is now represented by fealty, and is nothing more than nominal. Rent service is said to be incident to the reversion, that is, a grant of the reversion carries the rent with it (see Remainder). A power of distress is incident at common law to this form of rent. Copyhold rents and rents reserved on lease fall into this class. A rent charge is a grant of an annual sum payable out of lands in which the grantor has an estate. It may be in fee, in tail, for life, or for years. It must be created by deed or will, and may be either at common law or under the Statute of Uses. The grantor has no reversion, and the grantee has at common law no power of distress.
@@@1 “The three rents, viz., rack rent from a person of a strange tribe, a fair rent from one of the tribe, and the stipulated rent which is paid equally by the tribe and the strange tribe.”—Senchus Mor, p. 159, cited by Maine, Village Communities, p. 180.
Such power must have been given him by the instrument creating the rent charge. The Statute of Uses, 27 Hen. VIII. c. 10, gave a power of distress for a rent charge created under the statute. The Conveyancing Act, 1881, 44 & 45 Viet. c. 41, § 44, now gives a power of distress for a sum due on any rent charge which is twenty-one days in arrear. By § 45 a power of redemption of certain perpetual rents in the nature of rent charges is given to the owner of the land out of which the rent issues. Rent charges granted since April 26, 1855, otherwise than by marriage settlement or will for a life or lives or for any estate determinable on a life or lives must, in order to bind lands against purchasers, mortgagees, or creditors, be registered in the central office of the Supreme Court (18 & 19 Viet. c. 15). In certain other cases it is also necessary to register rent charges, for instance, under the Improvement of Land Act, 1864, and the Land Transfer Act, 1875. Forms of rent charge of special interest are tithe rent charge (see Tithes), ground rents, and the rent charges for the purpose of conferring votes usually called “ faggot votes.” Ground rents are rent charges in fee simple issuing out of land sold for building purposes. The lessee erects buildings according to the terms of the lease, making his profit by subletting either at a rack rent or on the terms of a fine on entrance into possession, with an annual rent slightly larger than the ground rent. In the latter case the rent is called an improved ground rent. Ground rents are regarded as particularly eligible investments owing to the extent of the security afforded. Rent charges of the annual value of 40s. for the purpose of creating votes are now rendered ineffective by the Representation of the People Act, 1884, 48 Viet. c. 3, § 4, which enacts (subject to a saving for existing rights and an exception in favour of owners of tithe rent charge) that a man shall not be entitled to be registered as a voter in respect of the ownership of any rent charge. A rent seek (redditus siccus) is a rent charge reserved without power of distress. But, as power of distress for rent seek was given by 4 Geo. II. c. 28, the legal effect of such rent has been since the Act the same as that of a rent charge. There are varieties of these main divisions of rent to which special names are given. Rents of assize or quit rents are a relic of the old customary rents. They are presumed to have been established by usage, and cannot be increased or diminished. They are found only in manors. Those paid by the freeholders are also called chief rents. Fee farm rents are rents reserved on grants in fee. According to some authorities they must be at least one-fourth of the value of the lands. They, like quit rents, now occur only in manors, unless existing before the Statute of Quia Emptores or created by the crown (see Real Estate). A rent which is equivalent or nearly equivalent in amount to the full annual value of the land is a rack rent. A dead rent is a fixed annual sum paid by a person working a mine or quarry, in addition to royalties varying according to the amount of minerals taken. Rents in kind still exist to a limited extent; thus the corporation of London is tenant of some lands in Shropshire by payment to the crown of an annual rent of a faggot. All pepper-corn or nominal rents seem to fall under this head. Services rendered in lieu of payment by tenants in grand and petit serjeanty may also be regarded as examples of rents in kind. Labour rents are represented by those cases, not unfrequent in agricultural leases, where the tenant is bound to render the landlord a certain amount of team work or other labour as a part of his rent. It was held in the Queen’s Bench in 1845 that tenants who occupied houses on the terms of sweeping the parish church and of ringing the church bell paid rent within the meaning of the Limitation Act of 3 & 4 Will. IV., c. 27.
Apportionment.—In regard to estate a rent service is apportion -able at common law, as well as under certain Acts of Parliament, such as the Land Clauses Act. A rent charge was formerly not apportionable, for it issued out of every part of the land and was at the same time in contemplation of law against common right as not being incident to tenure. The legal effect of this ■was that (with some exceptions) a release of part of the land out of which a rent charge issued was a release of the whole. It was provided by 22 k 23 Viet. c. 35, § 10, that the release from a rent charge of part of the hereditaments charged does not extinguish the whole rent charge, but operates only to bar the right to recover any part of the rent charge out of the hereditaments released. In regard to time, at common law no kind of rent was apportionable. The effect of this was that if the person entitled to the rent died between rent days no rent was due to the succeeding reversioner for the intermediate period. This was remedied by 11 Geo. II. c. 19, and other Acts, which are now practically superseded by the Apportionment Act, 1870, 33 & 34 Viet. c. 35. By this Act all rents are, in the absence of stipulation to the contrary, to be considered as accruing from day to day, and apportionable in respect of time accordingly.
Remedies.—Rent is due in the morning of the day appointed for payment, but is not in arrear until after midnight. It should be demanded just before sunset. The landlord has besides distress his ordinary remedy by action. In addition special statutory remedies are given in the case of tenants holding over after the expiration of their tenancy. By 11 Geo. II. c. 19 any tenant giving notice to quit and holding over is liable to pay double rent for such time as he continues in possession. By 1 & 2 Viet. c. 74 a tenant at a rent not exceeding £20 per annum who fails to deliver up possession after his interest has ended may be ejected by summary proceedings before justices. By 19 & 20 Viet. c. 108 a similar remedy is given in the county court where the rent does not exceed £50 per annum. Analogous provisions are contained in Acts dealing with the metropolitan district. It should be noticed that, since the writing of the article Distress, the landlord’s power of distress has been considerably limited in the case of agricultural tenancies falling within the Agricultural Holdings Act, 1883, 46 & 47 Viet. c. 61. § 44 confines the right of distress to one year’s arrears of rent instead of six years’ arrears, ■which could be distrained for before the Act. An extension of time is allowed in cases where in the ordinary course of dealing between landlord and tenant the payment of rent has been allowed to be deferred for a quarter or half year after the rent became legally due. By § 45 live stock belonging to another person and taken in by a tenant to be fed has a qualified privilege from distress ; that is, it is not distrainable where there is other sufficient distress to be found. If so distrained for want of other sufficient distress, it may be redeemed by the owner on payment of any sum due for the feeding. Agricultural or other machinery on the premises of the tenant for hire or use and live stock on the premises solely for breeding purposes are absolutely privileged from distress. The Act further makes appraisement before sale unnecessary, and enacts that bailiffs to levy distress are to be appointed by county court judges. For other provisions of the Act dealing with procedure, see Replevin.
Ireland.—The main differences between Irish and English law have been caused by legislation (see Landlord and Tenant). One of the most noticeable is the power of ejectment for non-payment of rent given by 23 & 24 Viet. c. 154. In England such a power can only be conferred by express agreement.
Scotland.—Rent is properly the payment made by tenant to landlord for the use of lands held under lease. The rent paid by vassal to superior is called feu-duty (see Fed). Its nearest English equivalent is the fee farm rent. Rents are recovered by an action of maills and duties in the Sheriff Court or the.Court of Session, and in non-agricultural tenancies by hypothec. The right of hypothec over land exceeding 2 acres in ext! nt let for agriculture or pasture has been abolished as from November 11, 1881 (see Hypothec). The Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act, 1883, 46 & 47 Viet, c. 62, provides by § 27 that when six months’ rent of the holding is due and unpaid the landlord may raise an action of removing before the sheriff against the tenant, concluding for his removal at the term of Whitsunday or Martinmas next ensuing ; and, unless the arrears are paid or caution is found, the sheriff may decern the tenant to remove. The tenant so removed has the rights of an outgoing tenant. Labour or service rents were at one time very frequent in Scotland. The events of 1715 and 1745 showed the vast influence over the tenantry that the great proprietors acquired by such means. Accordingly the Acts of 1 Geo. I., sess. 2, c. 54, and 20 Geo. II. c. 50, provided for the commutation of services into money rents. Such services may still be created by agreement, subject to the summary power of commutation by the sheriff given by the Conveyancing Act, 1874, 37 & 38 Viet. c. 94, §§ 20, 21.    “ In the more remote parts of Scotland it is understood
that there still exist customary returns in produce of various kinds, which being regulated by the usage of the district or of the barony or estate cannot be comprehended under any general rule” (Hunter, Landlord and Tenant, vol. ii. 298). Up to within forty
years ago existed steelbow leases, by which the landlord stocked the farm with corn, cattle, implements, &c., the tenant returning similar articles at the expiration of his tenancy and paying in addition to the ordinary rent a steelbow rent of 5 per cent, on the value of the stock.
United States.—Agricultural rents are, from the different position of the cultivators of the land, of less importance than in England. The law is in general accordance with that of England. The tendency of modern State legislation is unfavourable to the continuance of distress as a remedy. In some States, such as Ohio and Tennessee, it never existed. Fee farm rents exist in some States, like Pennsylvania, which have not adopted the Statute of Quia Emptores as a part of their common law.    (J. Wf.)
REPLEVIN. Since the article Distress (q.v.) Avas written the Agricultural Holdings Act, 1883, has made some changes in the law of replevin in England. The period of five days during which the tenant or owner of goods may replevy by 2 Will, & Mary c. 5, § 1, is extended in the case of holdings within the Act to fifteen days, on the tenant or owner making a request in writing to that effect and giving security for additional costs. A summary remedy in the nature of replevin is given, a court of summary jurisdiction having a jurisdiction concurrent with that of the county court conferred upon it in the case of distress on a holding \\r ithin the Act.
REPORTING. The curious among those A\r ho seek to trace political developments may, Avithout any great strain on the imagination, find an intimate relation betA\r een the groAvth of newspaper reporting and the groAvth of democratic institutions; at any rate the tAvo have always been found together. The history of reporting in Great Britain brings out the relationship Avith much clearness. There A\r as no truly systematic reporting until the beginning of this century, and not until many years aftenvards did it groAv to be a most important, if not the most important, feature in newspapers. There Avas parliamentary reporting of a kind almost from the time when parliaments began. Single speeches, and even some consecutive account of particular proceedings in parliament, Avere prepared. But long after newspapers Avere commonly published no effort had been made to give reports either of the proceedings of parliament or of those of any other assembly dealing with the public interests. The first attempts at parliamentary reporting, in the sense of seeking to make knoAvn to the public Avhat was done and said in parliament, began in a pamphlet published monthly in Queen Anne’s time called The Political State. Its reports were mere indications of speeches. Later, the Gentleman’s Magazine began to publish reports of parliamentary debates. Access to the Houses of Parliament was obtained by Cave, the publisher of the magazine, and some of his friends, and they took surreptitiously Avhat notes they could. These were subsequently transcribed and brought into shape for publication by another hand. There Avas a strict prohibition of all public reporting; but the Gentleman’s Magazine appears to have continued its reports for some time Avithout attracting the attention or rousing the jealousy of the House of Commons. The publisher, encouraged by immunity from prosecution by parliament, grew bolder, and began in his reports to give the names of the speakers. Then he Avas called to account. The latest standing order on the subject at that time Avas one passed in 1728, which declared “ that it is an indignity to, and a breach of, the privilege of this House for any person to presume to give, in written or printed newspapers, any account or minute of the debates or other proceedings; that upon discovery of the authors, printers, or publishers of any such newspaper this House will proceed against the offenders Avith the utmost severity.” Under this and other standing orders, Cave’s reports Avere challenged, as were those of other publishers in other magazines. They were denounced by resolution ; and threats of prosecution Avere made, Avith the result that
the reports appeared still, but Avithout the proper names of the speakers, and under the guise of “Debates in the Senate of Lilliput ” or some other like title. Long afterwards, in the latter half of the century, the neAvspapers began to report parliamentary debates more fully, Avith the result that, in 1771, several printers, including those of the Morning Chronicle and the London Evening Post, Avere ordered into custody for publishing debates of the House of Commons. A long and bitter struggle between the House and the public ensued. John Wilkes took part in it. The lord mayor of London and an alderman Avere sent to the ToAver for refusing to recognize the Speaker’s A\־arrant for the arrest of certain printers of parliamentary reports. But the House of Commons Avas beaten. In 1772 the newspapers published the reports as usual; and their right to do so has never since been really questioned. Both Houses of Parliament, indeed, noAv shoAv as much anxiety to have their debates fully reported as aforetime they showed resentment at the intrusion of the reporter. Provision has been made in the House of Lords and in the House of Commons for reporters. There are galleries in Avhicli they may take notes, and writing rooms in Avhich those notes may be extended. In short, reporting ׳ is now one of the best marked of parliamentary institutions.
But parliamentary reporting is only a small part of such work in newspapers. The newspapers in the beginning of this century rarely contained more than the barest outline of any speech or public address delivered in or in the neighbourhood of the toAvns Avhere they were published. As parliamentary reporting began to groAv, so did local reporting. After the peace of 1815 a period of much political fermentation set in, and the neAvspapers began to report the speeches of public men at greater length. All the attempts that Avere made from time to time to repress public meetings and demonstrations of dissatisfaction Avith the existing order of things did but increase the demand for reporting. It grew as the fetters were struck off public institutions. With the Reform Act of 1832 it got a great start forward; and the Municipal Reform Acts gave it a still stronger impulse. Then the proceedings of town councils could be reported, and every local newspaper took care that this Avas done. It Avas not, however, until well into what may be called the railway era that any frequent effort was made by neAvspapers to go out of their own district for the work of reporting. The London newspapers had before this led the way. In London alone were there daily newspapers. The proprietors of these papers had been compelled by the requirements of the public to make provision for the systematic reporting of the proceedings of parliament. For many years after the right to report those proceedings had been practically established, the Avork was done in a dilatory and clumsy fashion. Early in the present century, hoAvever, greater freedom of access to both Houses was given, and the manager of the Morning Chronicle established a staff of reporters. They began the system Avhich with improvements has continued to this time. Each reporter took his “ turn ” —that is, he took notes of the proceedings for a certain time, and then gave place to a colleague. The reporter avIio Avas relieved at once extended his notes, and thus prompt publication of the debates was made possible. Reporters had been found to supply the demand, and it had become the habit of the proprietors of the London newspapers to employ these men, out of the session of parliament, in reporting the speeches of public men in the country. The practice greAv until there was a good deal of competition among the papers as to which should first issue a report of any speech of note. Railways were not; and reporters had frequently to ride long distances in post chaises, doing their best as they jolted along the
roads to transcribe tlieir notes, so that they might be ready for the printer on arrival at their destination. Charles Dickens used to tell several stories of his adventures of this kind while he held an engagement on the Morning Chronicle. He was, indeed, perhaps the best reporter of his time, and he was most successful in outstripping many of his rivals. One result of the efforts thus made was that the provincial newspapers were stimulated to greater efforts. Reporters were rapidly trained, and in all directions reporting grew. There were none but weekly newspapers ; but they devoted much of their space to reporting, and public men became more ready to speak as they found that what they said would be more widely made known. As railways were extended, the newspapers were able to extend the sphere of their work of this kind, and reporting spread apace. Then, with changes in the fiscal policy of the country, daily newspapers sprang up in all directions; the electric telegraph was being improved and developed so that greater facilities were given for reporting ; and in a few years the old supremacy of the London journals in this department of newspaper work had well-nigh disappeared. The country newspapers did more reporting of speeches and public meetings than the metropolitan papers. No public man made a speech but it was faithfully reproduced in print. Local governing bodies, charitable institutions, political associations, public companies—all these came in a short time to furnish work for the reporter, and had full attention paid to them. Curiously enough, while the country newspapers have thus cultivated reporting, and have made it one of their chief features, the London newspapers, for reasons into which this article need not enter, have fallen behind, and have for some years past given little attention to the work of which they were the originators. This fact explains a development of reporting which may be more fully described.
When the second half of this century began, parliamentary reporting was a leading feature of the London newspapers. They had a monopoly of it. All the reporting arrangements in the House of Lords and in the House of Commons were made with sole regard to their requirements. There had indeed been a long battle between the Times and some of the other London newspapers as to which should have the best parliamentary report, and the Times had established its supremacy, which has never been shaken. But, while its reporting was fuller than that of other London daily newspapers, they did not neglect the work, and they gave in shorter compass admirable digests of the proceedings, with full reports of the most important speeches. The provincial newspapers were in the main obliged to copy the reports thus provided, and rarely made any attempt to get reports of their own. When the electric telegraph came into use for commercial purposes a change began. The company which first carried wires from London to the principal towns in the country started a reporting service for the country newspapers. It gathered up scraps of news and sent them to the journals that subscribed for the service. In addition, it procured admission to the parliamentary galleries for reporters in its employment, and began to send short accounts of the debates to the newspapers in the country. These newspapers were thus enabled to publish in the morning some account of the parliamentary proceedings of the previous night, instead of having to take like reports a day later from the London journals. The effect was greatly to stimulate the appetite of the provincial public for parliamentary reporting. The telegraph companies for a long time could or would do no more than they had begun by doing; and they offered no inducements to the provincial newspapers to telegraph speeches. The public meanwhile wanted to know more fully what their representatives were saying in parliament, and gradually the leading provincial newspapers adopted the practice of employing reporters in the service of the London journals to report debates on subjects of special interest in localities; and these reports, forwarded by train or by post, were printed in full, but of course a day late.. The London papers paid little attention to such debates, and thus the provincial papers had parliamentary reporting which was not to be found elsewhere. Bit by bit this feature was developed. It was greatly accelerated by a movement which the Scotsman was the first to bring about. The telegraph companies had increased in number, but they had not given more facilities for newspaper reporting. About 1865, however, a new company having come into existence, it was agreed that wires from London should be put at the disposal of such newspapers as desired them. Each newspaper was to have the use of a wire—of course on payment of a large subscription—from six o’clock at night till three o’clock in the morning. This was the beginning of the “ special wire ” which now plays so important a part in the production of almost all newspapers. The arrangement was first made by the Scotsman and by other newspapers in Scotland. The immediate result was that the parliamentary reporting in these papers was greatly increased, and was no longer confined to debates on local affairs. The special wires were used to their utmost capacity to convey reports of the speeches of leading statesmen and politicians; and, instead of bare summaries of what had been done, the newspapers contained pretty full reports.
When the telegraphs were taken over by the state, the facilities for reporting were increased in every direction. But now, as to parliamentary reporting, a new difficulty arose. The London papers, with the exception of the Times, had given less and less attention to parliamentary debates. There were, indeed, fairly long reports in one or two other newspapers in London, but the tendency was to shorten them, while on the other hand several of the provincial newspapers were giving more space than ever to the debates. These newspapers had to get their reports as best they could. The demand for such reporting had led, on the passing of the telegraphs into the hands of the state, to the formation of news agencies which undertook to supply the provincial papers. These agencies were admitted to the reporters’ galleries in the Houses of Parliament, and they provided longer or shorter reports of the debates, to meet the wishes of their clients. But the reports which any agency supplied were identical; that is to say, all the newspapers taking a particular class of report had exactly the same material supplied to them— the reporter producing the number of copies required by means of manifold copying paper. It is easy to see that, though this might serve the purpose of most of them, it could not meet the requirements of all; and accordingly attempts Avere made to get separate reports’ by engaging the services of some of the reporters employed by the London papers. Nothing else indeed was possible. The “ gallery ” was shut to all, save the London papers and the news agencies. The Scotsman sought in vain to break through this exclusiveness. The line, it Avas said, must be drawn somewhere, and the proper place to draw it was at the London press. Once that line was departed from every newspaper in the kingdom must have admission. But in 1880 a select committee of the House of Commons was appointed to consider the question. It took evidence, and it reported in favour of the extension of the gallery and of the admission of provincial papers. The result was that some of the papers entered into combinations to procure reports; that is to say, three or four papers which would be satisfied with the same report joined in providing
tho necessary reporting staff. In other cases individual newspapers put themselves on the same footing as the London newspapers by engaging separate staffs of reporters. This is the arrangement now. Parliamentary reporting is much fuller in the leading provincial newspapers than it is in most of the London papers, though the reports for the former have in all cases to be telegraphed to them.
The mode in which parliamentary reporting is carried out deserves some description. It has been said that the manager of the Morning Chronicle early in the century laid the foundation of the present system when he divided the work of reporting debates among a staff of reporters. That is exactly what is done now. The “ gallery,״ as it is familiarly called, is arranged with boxes for note-takers overlooking the floor of the House, and with seats behind for other note-takers who are waiting to take their turn. The Times has three of the front boxes—one for the chief of its staff of reporters, one for a summary writer, and one for the note-taker engaged in the full report. Most of the other London papers have each two boxes—one for a summary writer, the other for a reporter. Each of the press agencies has two boxes. Hansard has one. The rest are occupied by provincial newspapers or by combinations of those newspapers. The staff of reporters attached to each paper or combination of papers numbers from six to sixteen shorthand writers. If, for the purpose of dascribing the work of parliamentary reporting, a staff of eight be assumed, the process can be made clear. One other preliminary point should be kept in mind: an expert and intelligent reporter can transcribe from his notes as much matter as that contained in a column of the Times in rather less than an hour and a half. The staff of eight men may have turns of a quarter of an hour or of half an hour, or of any other length of time that may be agreed upon. The House of Commons begins its ordinary sitting at a quarter to four. At that time reporter No. 1 takes his place in the box and notes all that passes in the House. At four, assuming quarter hour turns, No. 2 relieves him; at a quarter past four No. 3 relieves No. 2, and at half past four No. 4: relieves No. 3. It will thus be seen that the eight reporters will cover a period of two hours, and that each of them has an hour and three quarters in which to extend his notes. If he has had a quarter of an hour’s note-taking of an important speaker he will have about three-quarters of a column of matter to write, and this he can do easily and have some time for rest before he has to take another “ turn.” In the case of an important debate extending far into the night, or into the morning, the “ turns ״ are shortened. Instead of a quarter of an hour, each reporter takes ten minutes, or five, or even three. The reporters go from the box to a writing room and there transcribe their notes, their “ copy ” being gathered by messengers attached to their paper, and carried by them to the printers. In the case of the provincial newspapers, the “ copy ” has to be telegraphed over the “ special ” or other wires, before it can reach the hands of sub-editors or compositors. That, however, is no affair of the reporter’s. He has to produce his report with as much rapidity as he can. In the case of the Times his efforts are seconded by what is in practice an annihilation of the space between the House of Commons and the office of the paper. The reporter reads out from his notes to an operator on a telephonic wire, who speaks what he hears through that wire to the office of the paper. When it is received there it is spoken off again to a compositor at a composing machine; and thus it is most commonly in type and ready for printing long before the reporter’s “copy” could have been received from the House of Parliament. The telephone is also used in a similar way by
some of the newspapers which have special wires. The latest parts of the report of a night’s sitting are spoken through the telephone to the point from which the special wire starts, and they are promptly telegraphed to the newspaper for which they are intended. Thus it often happens that the finishing passages of a report of a late sitting in the House of Commons are actually in type in a newspaper office 400 miles away, before the members who have taken part in the proceedings have got on their greatcoats for their walk home.
Parliamentary reporting, important as it is, yet forms a small part of the reporting which is done by the newspapers. All the public expositions of our complicated and busy social and national system are reported with a fulness, and on the whole with an amount of accuracy, that are surprising. Every newspaper of importance in the provinces has a more or less numerous staff of reporters at its command. In so,me cases, papers have separate staffs in different parts of the country. It is the business of these gentlemen to report all that is worth reporting for their journal. In the case of a long and important speech or meeting they will take turns in the reporting of it in the same wr ay as turns are taken in the Houses of Parliament. But no newspaper is able to confine its reporting to events in its own neighbourhood. It must give to the public full accounts of speeches of prominent public men, no matter where they are delivered. Sometimes a reporter is sent far awuy to do this work. In such a case he usually joins for the occasion the staff of one of the newspapers of the neighbourhood; or he and other reporters from a distance make up a staff to do the work. Again the system of turns comes in. But, for the most part, speeches of statesmen in different parts of the country are reported for newspapers at a distance by one or other of the news agencies, which send down staffs of reporters for the work. In some cases, all these modes of working are seen together—there are representatives of individual newspapers from far and near, and there are the staffs of the news agencies. During Mr Gladstone’s Midlothian campaign he had seldom fewer than seventy reporters in his train.
As a rule, reporters are shorthand writers. That became a necessity when the demand for reporting greatly increased, and when the very words of a speaker had to be given. But what is spoken of as verbatim reporting is in no sense the best. It is a necessity, but to a great extent is merely mechanical. The reporter has acquired dexterity in shorthand writing, and he can read his notes fluently. Far more is required for that better reporting which conveys to the public the full sense of what a speaker has said without giving all his superfluous words. This is an art which is not universally acquired by reporters. They have learned to depend so much upon their notes that they do not learn to exercise their brains. There is much reporting wdiich shortens speeches by wholesale excisions rather than by judicious and intelligent compression. It wr ould, lunvever, be unjust to pass over the many proofs of high intelligence which the reporting in our newspapers contains. The task of the reporter is often not easy. He has, to use a familiar adage, to make many silk purses out of sows’ ears ; and he does it patiently and wr ell—so well that the author of the material operated upon is often inclined to take all the credit to himself.
So far, the reporting which has been spoken of is that by which speeches and debates are produced in print for the public information. But there is another kind of reporting which ought not to bo passed over. What is commonly called “ descriptive reporting ” has in some cases nearly shouldered the reporting of speeches out of newspapers. Is there a royal progress, or a military display, or a pageant of any kind—the descriptive reporter is called into requisition. He has to describe as best he can all that happens.
it is a simple statement of fact to say that newspapers have on many occasions had word pictures from their descriptive reporters which have never been surpassed in prose writing for elegance and vividness and force. The special correspondent is a “ descriptive reporter.” He goes to war to describe what he sees. The electric telegraph has made a great change in the manner and perhaps in the character of his work ; but he is still among those who help in newspaper reporting.
Mention has been made of the connexion of the electric telegraph with reporting ; and it has been said that, since the telegraphs have been extended and telegraphing has been cheapened, the sphere of reporting has been widened and the demand for it has increased. Ho daily newspaper now confines its reporting to the affairs of the part of the countiy in which it is published. The electric telegraph brings the most distant places within easy reach of every newspaper. It has also made the work of the reporter more arduous and his responsibility greater. He cannot postpone the transcription of his notes to another day. The speech that is not finished in Manchester at midnight must be printed in full in the London newspaper which goes to press before three o’clock in the morning. The meeting which does not finish at Wick till midnight must be reported in the next day’s papers in Edinburgh. All this means that the reporter must work under
great pressure, and that he must exercise the greatest care in extending his notes. He has no time for revision, no opportunity of amending any doubtful passage. When these drawbacks are considered, it will most likely be felt that the work of reporting is not easy. Yet its importance could not well be overrated. Kc-portiug is the feature in the journalism of to-day which the public could least afford to lose. The editor of a newspaper may influence public opinion, but the reporter furnishes the material for its formation. Fair reporting is indeed a great security for freedom and for moderation. It enables all who can read to see the arguments for and against any proposal; it shows how public bodies discharge their duties ; it indicates the wants and wishes, the hopes and fears of the public ; it puts within easy reach the means of combating wild and foolish propositions, however superficially attractive they may be ; in short, it makes the w׳hole country an open council on all questions affecting the souls and bodies, the education and the government, of the people. It is but fair to add that reporting is done as a rule with great ability and fairness. The reporter rarely carries his likes or his dislikes into his work. He is scrupulously just, and as scrupulously impartial, though it may be that this is not always the opinion of some men who make speeches of which little is seen in the shape of reporting. (C. CO.)
REPOUSS& See Metal-Work and Plate.
REPRODUCTION
I. Animal Reproduction.
§ 1. ASEXUAL REPRODUCTION.
AS a general account of this process has already been given (see Biology, vol. iii. p. 686), and the details of its occurrence in the various groups are described in the articles devoted to them (see Protozoa, Hydrozoa, Tapeworm, &c.), it suffices here to recall the very broadest aspect of the phenomena,—that asexual reproduction is simply discontinuous growth, and that, as we make an ascending survey of the Metazoa, that simple form of discontinuous growth which we term asexual reproduction becomes more and more subordinated to, and at last wholly replaced by, that more differentiated or “sexual” form of reproduction characterized by the union of two heterogeneous cell-elements—never to reappear save in degenerate forms. See Sex.
§ 2. SEXUAL REPRODUCTION.
In the lowest forms of animal life the process of sexual reproduction is found in its simplest imaginable expression unassociated with any of those complexities which arise among the higher animals and plants. All that is to be observed is the growth of the reproductive organs, the maturation of their products, aud the passive liberation of these,—the fecundation of the ovum and the fate of the embryo being entirely left to the circumstances of the environment. In higher forms, however, not only does this process of maturation become more complex and of far more marked influence over the other functions of the organism, but the attraction of the sexes becomes distinct and leads to new specializations of function and structure.
Maturation.—The maturation of the sexes acquires, as has been said, increasing definiteness in the higher forms, where it is associated with various characteristic accompaniments. The profound reaction of reproductive maturity upon the wdiole system is best marked in Birds and Mammals, and perhaps most of all in Man.
Thus in a young male Bird the circulation in the testes is greatly increased, and these organs increase greatly in size and weight and commence to develop spermatozoa. Meamvhile the “ secondary sexual characters ” of the adult—gayer plumage for alluring the female, or weapons for contest with other males—make their appearance, the voice and note may alter, and a marked increase of strength and courage may appear. Among Mammals the changes are of similar order, the secondary sexual char
acters of course differing in detail. The minor changes at puberty in Man associated with the commencement of spermatogenesis are (besides the reflex excitation of erection due to distension of the seminal vesicles, and the more or less periodic expulsion of their contents during sleep) the growth of hair on the pubic region and later on the lower part of the face, and the rapid modification of the laryngeal cartilages and the lengthening of the vocal chords, so rendering the voice harsh and broken during the change and ultimately deepening it by about an octave. The marked strengthening of bones and muscles and the profound psychical changes which accompany the whole series of processes are also familiar. See Sex.
The local and cellular activity within the ovary, which is the fundamental part of maturation in the female, is not less remarkable than that in the testes. That even in lower Invertebrates the enlargement and escape of the ova are part of a normal cellular rhythm is interestingly shown by their not unfrequent relapse to the amoeboid state, or by the fatty degeneration and death of ova which have not accomplished their destiny. The escape of ripe ova in the Vertebrate ovary is especially remarkable: each Graafian follicle, as it ripens, bursts, expelling its ovum; its cavity contracts; it is filled up by blood, of which the white corpuscles form a ·framewmrk resembling connective tissue, in which the solids and corpuscles of the serum with colour״ ing matter derived from the haemoglobin of the latter are retained; and the whole constitutes the “ corpus luteum,” which, should pregnancy occur, may persist and undergo further retrogressive changes, or otherwise gradually disappear.
The direct causes of this process of ovulation have been sometimes ascribed to the congestion of the blood-vessels of the ovary and to its own internal turgidity, or to the existence of a slight contractility of its stroma; it seems, however, rather to depend upon the growth and turgescence of the individual follicle. The question of the relation of ovulation to the process of copulation in the higher animals has also been much discussed. Though we certainly know that ovulation is of regular occurrence whether fecundation takes place or not, it seems that in many cases copulation is speedily followed by the liberation of an ovum; nor is it difficult to see how7 the profound nervous and circulatory excitement associated with the former process might accelerate the bursting of a follicle. Leopold has conclusively showrn, howr ever, that ovulation may also long precede impregnation.
In many forms it is not easy to see Low tbe ova once liberated into the body-cavity find their way safely into the small opening of the discontinuous oviduct. In the Frog, however, tracts of the peritoneal epithelium become ciliated, so propelling the ova in the right direction. In Reptiles, Birds, and Mammals the open end of the oviduct is widened and fringed, and lies close to or even touching the ovary; muscular fibres too are present, and more or less active movements of this dilated end over the ovarian surface have been alleged to occur. The oviduct once reached, the downward progress of the ovum is ensured by the cilia of the epithelial lining, and probably also by peristaltic movements of its muscular coat. (I)@@1
Menstruation.—The process of menstruation (menses, catamenia), although from the earliest times the subject of medical inquiry, is by no means yet clearly understood. It occurs usually at intervals of a lunar month in all women during their period of potential fertility (fecundity), and, so far from being confined to the human species, has been observed at the period of “ heat ” in a large number of Mammals. Though thus clearly a normal physiological process, it yet evidently lies on the borders of pathological change, as is evidenced not only by the pain which so frequently accompanies it, and the local and constitutional disorders which so frequently arise in this connexion, but by the general systemic disturbance and local histological changes of which the discharge is merely the outward expression and result. The histological facts are briefly as follows. The mucous lining of the uterus consists of a loose vascular connective tissue covered by ciliated epithelium and containing numerous glands of clear alkaline secretion. This mucous lining before the outset of menstruation becomes loose and oedematous, its lymphatics being greatly distended; it thus thickens considerably, pressing against the cervix of the uterus. An extravasation of blood’ from the capillaries next takes place over the whole surface of the mucous layer, and the discharge is thus set up. This consists at first of blood largely diluted with the secretion of the uterine glands, but soon becomes mixed with detritus from the disintegration of the mucous coat, of which not only the general epithelial cells but those of the neck of the glands, and even part of the subjacent connective tissue, undergo fatty degeneration and fall off, occasionally even in a mass. After from three to six days the blood ceases to appear, and the lost epithelium is rapidly replaced, apparently by proliferation from the necks of the glands. By the ninth or tenth day the mucous coat is fully healed and the beginnings of the next menstrual process recommence.
The age at which the process commences varies with race and climate, with nutrition and growth, with habit of life (e.g., with differences between town and country life), and with mental and moral characteristics. Of these, however, climate seems most important; thus, while in northern Europe the average age is reckoned at the beginning of the fifteenth year, in the tropics it seems to commence in the ninth or tenth. The cessation of menstruation usually takes place between the age of forty-five and fifty, and, somewhat as the secondary characteristics of female puberty coincide with its appearance, a less distinct reduction of these is associated with its close; in many cases secondary resemblances to the masculine type may supervene.
The old theories of menstruation were that it served to rid the system of impure blood, that it simply corresponded to the period of “ heat ” observed in lower animals, or, later, that it was associated with ovulation,— which indeed seems broadly to correspond with the end of
the menstrual period. At present there may be said to be tvr o rival theories. According to the first of these the process is viewed as a kind of surgical “freshening ”of the uterus for the reception of the ovum, whereby the latter during the healing process can be attached safely to the uterine wall. The other view is exactly the reverse of this. Its upholders regard the growth of the mucous coat before the commencement of the flow as a preparation for the reception of an ovum, if duly fertilized, and the menstrual process itself as the expression of the failure of these preparations, in short as a consequence of the non-occurrence of pregnancy. A decided majority of gynaecologists appear to incline to the latter viewr . (1)
Comparative Anatomy of the Reproductive Organs.—The multicellular animals afford a remarkable series of gradations from the simplest imaginable case in which certain cells, independently of accessory organs, and even isolated from each other, develop into ova and spermatozoa. In the vast majority of cases, however, definite groups of cells are set apart as the essential reproductive glands—the ovary and the testis. The contents of these may simply break loose, but definite excretory ducts are very frequently present, and upon these very varied complications may arise. To the male ducts a seminal reservoir may be added. More or less specialized glandular regions may contribute their secretion to the seminal fluid, and a more or less complicated copulatory apparatus may also be superadded.
The female accessory organs are equally simple in principle and complex in detail. Nutritive material may be furnished to the ova by special yolk glands, or by the Avails of the oviduct; this too may supply special envelopes, and may exhibit dilatations for the preservation or development of the ova (uterus), for the reception of the male copulatory organ (vagina), or for the temporary storage of the seminal fluid thus introduced (receptaculum seminis). It is necessary therefore briefly to outline the most important facts of the comparative anatomy and physiology of these organs in the various groups.
Passing over the little-understood Orthonectida and Dicyemida (see Parasitism, vol. xviii. p. 259), the Sponges present the very simplest case above referred to. Here and there throughout the mesoderm a cell may be observed enlarging to form an ovum, or segmenting to form a mass of spermatozoa, but no definite reproductive glands, much less any duct or accessory organ, are present, and at most the ovum forms for itself a kind of nest among the surrounding cells, an approach towards the epithelial follicle of higher forms being thus presented.
Ccelentera.—In Anthozoa the generative organs are developed as ridges on the gastric septa, their products passing out by the mouth; and in the Ctenophora each radial canal bears an ovarian ridge on one side and a testicular on the other. Keen controversy has raged over the state of matters in the Hydromedusse. Kleinenberg derived both ovum and sperms in Hydra from the ectoderm, while Van Beneden endeavoured to prove the invariable origin of the ovarian tract from the endoderm and that of the testicular from the ectoderm; but subsequent observers, so far from confirming the constancy of this arrangement, have affirmed in many forms the ectodermic and in others the endodermic origin in both cases. Weismann and He Yarenne have recently very completely demonstrated the more remarkable fact that in a great number of forms the generative elements do not arise in the so-called generative buds or gonophores at all, but actually migrate thither from the parenchyma (coenen-chyma) of the nutritive polyp or trophosome—the latter observer indeed going so far as to allege the primitive origin by ova and spermatozoa in all cases from the endo-
@@@1 These numbers refer to the bibliography at p. 422.
derm of the nutritive polyp. These conclusions not only invalidate Van Beneden’s attractive theory, but tend to overthrow the ordinary view of the alternation of generations in the Hydromedusae.
Vermes.—The incipient ovary and testis are seen in their simplest expression in such a case as that of the hermaphrodite Bryozoa, or even better in the low Cliseto-pod Worm Tomopteris (fig. 1), in which a patch of cells of the lining membrane of the coelom proliferate and enlarge into ova, or divide into spermatozoa, fall off, and become extruded. In higher Worms (e.g.,
Lumbricus) the glands become localized in definite segments, and excretory ducts, apparently specialized segmental organs, appear. Among the Platyhelminthes, on the other hand, the most extraordinary specializations occur. The generative apparatus reaches a complexity which in some respects even excels that of the higher Vertebrates, and which, since it occurs not only among the parasitic forms but also in their less modified free-living allies (if not ancestors), the Turbellarians, must be regarded, not as any mere adaptation to parasitic life, but as an important factor in explaining (by the peculiar advantage which such increased reproductive efficiency affords ; see Pakasitism) the wide prevalence of parasitism in the Platyhelminthes.
Echinodermata.—Here the reproductive organs are of extreme simplicity—mere lobed glands usually provided with a duct or pore, or sometimes merely bursting into the body-cavity.
Arthropoda.—The essential organs never exceed one pair,—a simple median germ-gland being probably, as Gegenbaur suggests, the primitive condition. The accessory organs, however, reach great complexity, especially among the higher Insecta.
Mollusca.—The lower Lamellibranchs have paired hermaphrodite glands opening in relation to the excretory organs; in the hermaphrodite Gasteropoda, however, high complexity of the accessory organs occurs {e.g., Helix). In the dioecious Cephalopoda the oviduct is single, and there are remarkable accessory female glands, while in the male the formation of the spermatopliores and the curious modification of an arm for copulatory purposes are noteworthy.
Tunicata.—In this group (so frequently hermaphrodite) the reproductive apparatus is again greatly reduced, the paired or single sexual glands being sometimes even ductless, while accessory organs are absent.
Vertebrata.—Starting again, in the lowest Vertebrates, with organs of an exceedingly simple and primitive kind, we find the series presenting all gradations up to a very high complexity. Thus in Amphioxus the reproductive glands are little modified patches of the lining epithelium of the coelom, and arise in a paired series,—an arrangement recalling that of the simpler segmented Worms. In other Vertebrates, however, the essential organs are most distinctly localized in origin, never exceeding a single pair, and are also much more evolved in structure. In its earliest recognizable state the generative gland is a slight thickening of the peritoneal epithelium and the subjacent connective tissue on each side of the mesentery, lying near and parallel to the incipient renal apparatus.
Leaving the histological details of the process by which this “germinal epithelium,” with the subjacent connective tissue of the “genital ridges,” develops into ovary and testis with their characteristic products to the sections dealing with oogenesis and spermatogenesis respectively, and confining ourselves to the gross anatomy of these essential organs, we may note their very simple character
in the Marsipobranchii, where in the Lampreys they extend for a great length along the coelom, and exhibit a number of tolerably regular lamellar folds, recalling the segmental arrangement of lower forms. In the remaining Vertebrates these organs are usually less elongated and relatively smaller and more compact, though it is interesting to note that some Amphibians (notably many Cseciliae) exhibit traces of a more or less discontinuous, perhaps serial, arrangement.
In Plagiostome Fishes the sexual glands arise along only a portion of the genital ridge, the remainder having its stroma mainly enlarged, and forming the so-called epigonal gland. In many of the higher Amphibians accessory organs of unknown function, the so-called fatty bodies or corpora adiposa, are attached to the ovaries and testes; and in the Toad and other Anura another organ in close relation to the testis, and in histological structure resembling a rudimentary ovary, has also been described.
A considerable tendency towards loss of symmetry appears in the essential organs, particularly the ovaries, of many Vertebrates. Thus in Myxine neither ovary nor testis is present on the left side, and in many Sharks and Dogfish the left ovary is rudimentary. In Snakes the left ovary is smaller than the right and usually lies behind it, while in Birds the left ovary is alone functional, that of the right side becoming so completely atrophied at an early stage of development that traces of it in the adult are only found surviving in a few forms, especially some of the diurnal birds of prey. Among Mammals symmetrical development is the rule, yet in the curiously Bird-like Ornithorhynchus the left ovary is much smaller than the right.
The relative size of the ovaries varies greatly throughout the Vertebrate series, in relation partly to the relative proportion of stroma to germinal tissue in the histological structure of the organ, to the fecundity of the species, and to the number of ova produced, partly also to the presence or absence of a food yolk, and the consequent size of the ova. In many forms a great increase of size takes place at breeding-time.
In the majority of Vertebrates, as in lower forms, the essential organs remain throughout life in the position in which they develop, or at most depend into the coelom supported by a mesenteric fold. In most Mammals, however, a certain change of position takes place, the ovaries usually shifting more or less backwards towards the pelvis. The testes too in the Monotremata leave their embryonic position at the inner edge of the primitive kidneys and travel backwards. In Edentates, Hyrax, Elephants, and Cetaceans they remain near or a little below the kidneys, but they usually reach the abdominal wall, which they may more or less completely pass through in the inguinal region (as in many of the lower Rodents and Carnivores), or even descend into a more or less distinct diverticulum or hernial protrusion of the integuments of .the abdominal wall, the scrotum. This protrusion arises usually at the posterior margin of the primitive urinogenital opening, but, by exception, in Marsupials in front of it. The cavity of the scrotal pouch may remain throughout life in continuity with that of the abdomen, so enabling the testes to pass backwards and forwards at each breeding season (Marsupials, Rodents, Insectívora, Bats, &c.), while in the higher forms, e.g., Ungulates, Primates, &c., the scrotum retains the testes permanently shut off from the abdominal cavity.
The origin and homologies of the genital ducts in i Vertebrates, and the accessory organs in relation to them, may now, after a very great amount of anatomical and embryological inquiry, be considered as tolerably settled, ׳ at least in their main outlines.
Id Jfyx'ine and the Lampreys no ducts are present, but the generative organs void their contents into the coelom, whence they pass out by the abdominal pore; some Teleosteans too (Salmonides) and at least one Elasmobranch (Lxmaryus) exhibit the same primeval simplicity of structure and function. Even here the exit of the sexual products is hardly independent of the aid of the excretory system, since there is reason to regard the abdominal pores as the least modified survivals of segmental organs; and in all higher forms the definite efferent ducts which are present in more or less close relation to the essential generative organs develop in the closest relation to, and in fact at the expense of, the renal excretory apparatus. For an account of the complex details of this process in the higher Vertebrates, however, the reader must consult the classical monographs of Balfour and Semper, or the larger manuals. (2)
Copulation.—We have noted above the importance of the copulatory process to secure fertilization of the ovum, and can thus readily understand its occurrence in the higher members of all the more complex animal groups. Though the result is in all cases the same, the process presents curious variations in principle as well as detail. Thus (e. </.) the hermaphrodite Earthworms become firmly attached by their characteristic thickened band of fused rings (clitellum). Among the higher Crustaceans the spermatozoa are conducted to the ova along the grooves of a modified pair of the appendages of the male, while in Insects the modifications of the posterior abdominal segments and their limbs for copulatory purposes are often extraordinarily complex and varied. In Spiders, again, the spermatic fluid is passed into a receptacle in the chela, and thence pushed into the cloaca. In the higher Mollusca, the complex copulatory apparatus of the Common Snail and the process of hectocotylization among the Cephalo-pods, so curiously analogous to the process in Spiders, are too familiar to need more than mention (see Mollusca, Cuttle-fish). In many Fishes no copulatory process exists; thus in any of our Salmon rivers the male fish can be seen voiding the milt upon the ova after their deposition. In many Elasmobranchs a portion of the posterior pair of limbs,@@1 presenting very peculiar cartilaginous and glandular structures, though known as “ claspers,” seems to be introduced into the cloaca during fertilization. But it is among Amphibians that we find the earliest trace of a true penis ; a portion of the cloaca is distinctly ever-sible in Caecilians; in Snakes and Lizards paired eversible processes arise from the posterior cloacal wall, while in Chelonians, Crocodiles, and most Birds it is the anterior wall which bears these processes. In Monotremes, too, the organ is distinctly double; in higher Mammals it is single; but the function is in all cases essentially the same. The nervous, muscular, and circulatory mechanisms of the process are described in works on human physiology. (3)
Gestation and Birth.—While in the majority of lower forms the offspring leaves the parent as an unfertilized ovum, we have seen even among Sponges the impregnation and development of the embryo in its primitive position, and thus almost from the outset of an ascending zoological survey we can recognize the passage from oviparous to viviparous forms. The Invertebrates, however, are mainly oviparous, despite a few exceptions, of which perhaps the most surprising and aberrant are that of Entoconcha mirabilis, which exhibits an ordinary Molluscan development within the body of its Holothurian host, and that in what resembles a special ovarian tube, but is really the body of its utterly degenerate parasitic parent. Among
Insects a certain degree of viviparous development may be reached; and this goes curiously far in the Dipterous Insect Gecidomyia, in which larvae develop within the body of their parents (themselves at the larval stage), the cavity of which they destroy and burst in order to become free. Thus within the same species there comes about exactly the state of things in which the ova of a parasite develop at the expense of its host.
Among Fishes viviparous birth occurs more commonly : in some Teleosteans the young develop within the ovaries; in many Sharks and Dogfish the development takes place within the oviduct, and in one case (Mustelus Isevis) an actual placenta is formed by the interdigitation of folds of the yolk sac with those of the oviduct. Even the terrestrial Amphibians usually lay their eggs in water, yet in some types, notably the Alpine Salamander (Salamandra atra), development takes place within the oviduct. That this is a clear case of adaptation to the eminently terrestrial environment has indeed been well shewn by experiments in which the young larvae taken from the parent and transferred to pond water developed like ordinary Newts. To all such forms, viviparous in the sense of bringing forth their young alive, the somewhat confusing term “ ovovivi-parous” is often applied. Birds, and also Reptiles, with few exceptions, of which the Ichthyosauria seem to have presented a striking case, are oviparous ; so too, as has been recently established by Caldwell, is the in all respects so curiously Bird-like Mammal Echidna. Its congener Orni-thorhynchus probably agrees in this; but in Marsupials the embryo is not born until it has reached a comparatively advanced state of development, when it is transferred to the brood pouch or marsupium, where the process is completed. In the remaining Mammalia intra-uterine development goes much farther, the nutrition of the embryo being, in absence of the abundant food yolk of lower forms, effected by the aid of a placenta analogous but not homologous to that of Mustelus, since developed, not from the yolk-sac, but from the allantois (see Anatomy and Mammalia).
The physiological processes of birth show a similar rise in complexity,—due chiefly to the increasing strain upon the parental organization which this progress in the nutrition and protection of the embryo during its development involves; for, while an ovum can be extruded by simple ciliary action, or at most by the gentle contractions of the oviduct, the expulsion of the relatively enormous Mammalian foetus involves mechanical difficulties of the most serious kind. And, besides these stresses and strains upon the pelvic basin itself or the muscular and connective tissues of the uterus, vagina, and its outlet, the inevitable rending asunder of the large closely interwoven and highly vascular placenta must evidently occasion an additional physiological disturbance. (4)
Parental Care.—Not to mention cases of mere concealment of the ova or construction of egg cases, the lowest forms exhibiting such parental care are probably certain Holothurians and Starfishes described by Sir Wyville Thomson during the voyage of the “ Challenger,” in which the developing young are borne upon the dorsal surface of the parent. Many Crustaceans carry about their ova during development, and an Amphipod has been described as followed by its newly-hatched young like a hen by its chickens. The female Spider too, though ferocious towards the male, frequently spins a nest and shows some maternal solicitude; but such cases are far commoner among even the lower Vertebrates than the highest Invertebrates. Thus among Fishes the case of the nest-building Stickleback is especially familiar; some Siluroids and Lophobranchs (and usually the males) carry about their young,—the latter in ventral pouches, the former in the mouth.
But the quaintest examples of care of offspring are those
@@@1 In the curious Holocephalous Fish Callorhynchus, Jeffery Parker has recently adduced arguments for regarding the claspers as the surviving rudiments of a third pair of limbs.
presented by some of׳ the Amphibians, notably by the Frog Alytes obstetricans, where the male winds the string of ova as laid round his body, sits in concealment until their
development is sufficiently advanced, and then takes to the water, or in the grotesque Surinam Toad (Pipa suri-namensis), where the male places the ova one by one in hollows in the loose skin of the back of the female, where they accomplish their development. Reptiles rarely show any care beyond at most burying their ova, but in Birds the evolution of parental care (no doubt associated with the need of high temperature for development) approaches its highest and most general evolution. The case of Mammalia is also too familiar to need any description; but there is evidently good ground for the idea (of late ably popularized by Miss Buckley) that the marked success of Birds and Mammals in the struggle for existence is to be attributed perhaps not less to their peculiar care of offspring than to any advance in organization. (5)
The Spermatozoon.
History.—In 1677 Leeuwenhoek’s attention was drawn by Hamm, one of his pupils, to the active moving constituents of the seminal fluid, and he described these as animalcula spermatica or spermatozoa ((nrepya, seed ; ¿¿¡W, animal). Although known to be of constant occurrence, they were long regarded as parasites, and classified as Helmintlies or as Infusoria (see also article “ Zoophytes,” Encyclopaedia Britannica, 8th ed.), even Yon Baer maintaining this view as late as 1835. Soon after this date R. Wagner demonstrated their constant presence in fertile males and their absence in infertile bastards. Von Siebold discovered them in many Vertebrates, while Kolliker recognized them as definite histological elements arising within the testes. The old name, however, has persisted despite various proposals to replace it (e.g., spermatozoids, Yon Siebold ; fila spermatica, Kolliker). (.6)
Anatomy and Physiology of Spermatozoa.—Without attempting completeness it is necessary to note a few of the best marked forms of spermatozoa. The familiar type, that of a small more or less ovoid “ head,” with delicate thread-like cilium or “tail,” is of the commonest occurrence throughout the animal kingdom ; it is seen with specific modifications in 1-4 and 12-16 in fig. 3. Much less differentiated forms, however, occur, especially among the Branchiate Arthropods, of which some exhibit almost amoeboid forms,as in the Daphnoid Moina, or in Crabs (7 in fig. 3); others are rigid, with radiating processes, as in the Lobster (8 in fig. 3). That of Ascaris is a small nucleated cell without tail or process, but bearing a cap of protoplasm;
this, like the lateral process in the spermatozoon of the Chaetopod Cletci (4 in fig. 3), is not, as might at first appear, an additional or accessory portion, but a mere persistent
embryonic structure, as will be understood from the outline of the facts of development given below. In a large number the nucleus is more or less drawn out to form either a continuous rod or a series of fine granules, the protoplasm in such cases forming a delicate film with lateral fringes, which may also be produced on one or both ends into a filament. This form is seen in many Planarians (compare 9-11 in fig. 3). In the Newt the head is elongated, and the tail bears a vibratile membrane. In Man a middle piece separates the peculiarly shaped head from the tail, and this seems to end in a still finer filament (14 in fig. 3). Miescher and others describe their minute structure with yet greater detail, distinguishing in the head a wall enclosing peculiarly differentiated contents, in the middle piece a similar structure, and even an axial filament in the tail.
The movements of spermatozoa have attracted considerable attention, their action being mechanically comparable to that of cilia, and being affected similarly by reagents. Their great activity and prolonged vitality are noteworthy ; thus not only do they remain in movement for many hours—indeed until the onset of putrefaction—after their ejaculation from the body, but in many of the higher animals they may remain active in the oviducal passages for weeks. In the Bat the spermatozoa lie in the uterus awaiting the ovum from autumn till spring; while a queen Bee may go on laying the fertilized eggs (from which workers arise) for swarm after swarm for three years after her first and only fertilization, without entirely exhausting the supply of active and mobile spermatozoa in the, receptaculum, and such cases forcibly suggest that the spermatozoon has not only a vast intrinsic store of energy, but must also absorb nutritive matter from the environing tissues or secretions, much in fact as would an Infusorian parasite. (6)
The chemical analysis of spermatozoa, though as yet but rude, yields results of interest. Thus, not only is the proportion of solid matter to water extremely high, but the small quantity of ordinary albumens and the high percentage of ethereal extractives are to be noted, the whole composition being more analogous to that of brain and nerve than of any other tissues. In round numbers, nearly 50 per cent, of the Salmon milt is nuclein, more than 25 per cent, is protamin, 10 per cent, is a mixture of ordinary albumens, and less than 5 per cent, is fat; while 1\ per cent, of lecithin, per cent, of cholesterin, with traces of other products of metabolism, make up the rest. (7)
Development of Spermatozoa (Spermatogenesis).—Probably no subject within the whole range of histology (at least if we except that of the structure of striped muscular tissue) presents so many difficulties, or has been the subject of more prolonged research and controversy; and it is thus essential to clearness to recapitulate the history of the inquiry in some detail. The modern
period of investigation, despite a few observations by V agner and others, practically opens with Kdlliker’s fundamental observation (1841) that the head of each spermatozoon arose from the metamorphosis of a seminal cell.
In 1844 Haeckel described in Helix the cells destined to become spermatozoa as arising on the surface of an epithelial cell of the germ follicle. In a more elaborate paper (Z. JV. Z., 1856) Kolliker compared the process of spermatogenesis in the Bull, Dog, and Babbit with considerable detail, distinguishing in all cases the lining of the tubule into two kinds of cells,—the outer having large nuclei and nucleoli, and undergoing rapid multiplication, while the thick inner layer of smaller cells was becoming differentiated into the true sperm-cells, which might be either unicellular or multicellular “cysts.” He also described the origin of the head of the spermatozoon (and indeed also that of its tail) from the nucleus of this parent cell, and the breaking loose of the spermatozoon from its parent.
Henle (1865) showed that the tail was developed from a portion of the protoplasm, thus preparing for the comparison with ciliated epithelial ,cells soon afterwards instituted by Schweigger-Seidel. Sertoli (1865) described certain “ramified cells” in the seminal tubules, and Merkel (1871) regarded these as forming a framework (Stiitzzellen) for other cells from which the spermatozoa developed. In the same year, however, appeared the important researches of Yon Ebner, whose views will be understood by the aid of fig. 4. He described the large cells just mentioned as provided with a large and well-defined nucleus and nucleolus, and as being confluent at their base with each other, so forming a protoplasmic layer (Keimnetz), but stretching forwards into the lumen of the duct as irregular prolongations ; these become lobed or fingered, each lobe independently developing a nucleus, the large primitive nucleus remaining unchanged. To the whole prolongation with its lobes he applies the term spermatoblast. From each lobe a spermatozoon develops, the nucleus lengthening to form the main portion of the head, while a thin film of the protoplasm elongates into the cilium or tail. The young spermatozoa at first press
downwards into the body of the spermatoblast, so as to form bundles, but, when ultimately liberated, curl themselves up to roll down the seminal tubule, the more or less branched stump of the spermatoblast alone remaining along with the smaller cells of the tubules, which, according to him, take no part in the process, but merely perform nutritive or mechanical functions.
A vigorous controversy at once arose, but Merkel claimed these spermatoblasts as being simply his “Stiitzzellen,” and described the spermatozoa as arising from the small round cells, and as being only secondarily received into cavities of the former, a view which Henle also adopted. Sertoli also regarded Ebner’s spermatoblasts as his “ramified cells,” and ascribed all spermatogenetic functions to the round cells, which he distinguished in their youngest state as “germinative,” and later as “seminiferous” cells, which then divided to form “ nematoblasts, ” these directly developing into spermatozoa. Blumberg (1873) attempted to reconcile the disputants by ascribing spermatogenetic functions both to the spermatoblasts and to the round cells. Neumann, while supporting Von Ebner in the main, describes his spermatoblasts as not processes of the nutritive network (“Keimnetz”), but as modified from the ordinary epithelium of the seminal tubule, and disputed the existence of Merkel’s framework altogether ; and this essential confirmation of Yon Ebner’s view was supported by Mihalkovicz, Landois, and others. In a later paper he attempted to show that the lobes of Von Ebner’s spermatoblasts might become separated off as the small round cells, and might then cither break up or develop into spermatozoa. Krause (1876), while otherwise supporting Von Ebner, graphically described the spermatoblasts as ciliated cells with ramified and even anastomosing processes, so doing away with any connective-tissue system altogether. Sertoli, however, continued to support his own view with greater elaborateness than ever.
Semper’s well-known researches (1875) on the urinogenital system of Elasmobranclis included an important contribution on spermatogenesis. He described an invagination of the germinal epithelium or of the primitive ova into the subjacent stroma, where they form a primitive follicle, which again comes into relation with the incipient tubule. The central cell of the follicle undergoes mucous degeneration and becomes absorbed, leaving a cavity lined by a single layer of epithelial cells, which divide rapidly, becoming cylindrical, with large round nuclei. These divide into a “ covercell ” and a “ mother-cell ” ; the nucleus of the latter divides repeatedly until about sixty sperm nuclei are formed, wr hich elongate to form the heads of the spermatozoa. As these develop they come to lie in a bunch, lying into the cavity of the follicle, their expulsion being effected by the swelling of the nucleus of the cover-cell.
An important series of researches by Von La Valette St George on spermatogenesis among Vertebrates was meanwhile in progress. In his final paper (1878) he describes the seminal tubules as containing twT o distinct types of cell. One kind, resembling young ovules, which he terms primitive seminal cells or spermatogonia, divide into a mass or spermalogemma of small cells (spermatocytes). These spermatocytes may either (a) all develop into spermatozoa (Mammals), or (b) a single spermatocyte may become modified as a basilar cell (Plagiostome Fishes), or (c) a number may form an envelope or cyst around the others (Amphibians and Fishes). The second kind of primitive cells he terms “follicle-cells, ” and regards as non-essential; these are united into a loose tissue and envelop the spermatogonia and spermatogemma.
In this view we have a marked divergence from both preceding theories, as the author does not hesitate to point out. He regards Von Ebner’s “Keimnetz” and “ spermatoblasts” as confounding both his follicle cells with their included sperrnatogernmre, and interprets Neumann’s figures confirmatory of Von Ebner in the same way. Merkel’s “ Stiitzzellen ” he identifies as his “ follicle-cells ” altered by reagents.
The subsequent researches of Helman (1880), Krause, and Nussbaum among Vertebrates need only be mentioned as essentially confirmatory of the observations of La Valette. Meyer’s careful observations (1880) also led him to the same general view', with the important difference, suggested by one of the preceding authors, that the “ follicle cells ” of La Valette were not inert as he supposed, but the earliest stages of his spermatogonia and spermatogemma;. Klein’s views (1881) have perhaps most relation to those of Sertoli.
Some important work was meanw'hile being done among Invertebrates. In 1877 F. E. Scliultze described spermatogenesis in the Sponge Halisarca,—a germinal cell, analogous to that which gives rise to an ovum, becoming covered by an epithelium, and dividing into a multitude of segments, each of which becomes drawn out iuto a spermatozoon. In 1844 Meckel had described the spermatozoa of the Snail as arising superficially from a mother-cell, and this view had been confirmed by various authors. In 1879 Duval described in the same animal the spermatocytes as arising by the endogenous division of a mother-cell, and subsequently coming to its surface, and Hallez described an essentially similar process in some Planarians. Graff, how'ever, found in other species that no remnant survived, but that the whole of the spermatogonia became converted into spermatocytes. In 1880 Blomfield investigated the process in the Earthw׳orm, his results resembling rather those of Von Ebner (fig. 4) than those of La Valette. Strongly emphasizing, however, the importance of the nutritive basal cell or spermatoblast of Von Ebner, he proposed yet another nomenclature. In a subsequent paper (1882) he describes the process in the Snail and the Frog. The former agrees substantially with the Worm, but in the Frog a hollow spermatogemma arises; each of its cells elongates to form a spermatozoon ; these while still immature arrange themselves in bundles round one of the more superficial cells, which “become blastophoral corpuscles,”—a view' which recalls Merkel’s explanation of Von Ebner’s spermatoblasts, mentioned above, viz., that the spermatozoa only became temporarily lodged in their recesses after completing their development.
In this respect the view of Renson (1882) is especially interesting. He describes the follicular cells of La Valette as segmenting into
nematoblasts group themselves round the extremity of certain long projecting epithelial cells, the supporting cells (or “ cellules de soutien,” obviously the spermatoblasts of Yon Ebner), and actually sink into their protoplasm to complete their development. When fully developed, the heads of the young spermatozoa have attained the base of the supporting cell, but this now elongates and bears them anew to the lumen of the duct, where new nematoblasts are by this time waiting to take their place (fig. 5).
The researches of Hermann (1882) in Elasmobranchs are broadly confirmatory of those of Semper, while those of Jensen and of Swaen and Masquelin (1883) are especially corroborative of the views of La Valette. The latter are, however, of importance as tending towards reconciliation. The primitive ampullae being formed, the “ male ovules ” and the follicular cells are henceforth distinct: the former segment into spermatogemmae ; the latter (at first forming incomplete envelopes to the male ovule) mostly disappear, save one which travels downwards until it lies between the wall of the ampulla and the spermatogemma, thus constituting its “basilar cell.” The spermatogemma meanwhile is developing a central cavity (“loge caudale”), from which the tails of the incipient spermatozoa or “nematoblasts” project into the lumen of the duct. The basilar cell has also been enlarging, and fusing with the intercellular substance of the spermatogemma; the nematoblasts thus come to be plunged into the basilar cell, and sink downwards towards its nucleus ; but this again elongates to expel them. In the Salamander these follicular cells form a complete envelope to the male ovules during their whole segmentation and subsequent evolution. In Mammals the male ovule divides into an active and a temporarily inert portion (follicular cell of La Yalette, germinative cell of Sertoli and Renson) ; the former segments into the spermatogemma, of which the resultant nematoblasts plunge into the basilar cells, much as described by Renson. They compare the intercellular substance of the spermatogemma to the blastophor described by Blomfield in Worms, and regard the follicular cells as a secondary addition peculiar to Vertebrates, and homologous with the follicular »cells of their ova.
The first step towards any understanding of the process of spermatogenesis amid this maze of controversy is to collate the various observations ; hence the present attempt to summarize the main observations on the subject, and afford a key to the nomenclature. Brat how shall we reconcile the different theories ? Each author formulates his own view of spermatogenesis, and sometimes even admits only a single method (e.g., Von Ebner, Blomfield, &c.); yet, unless we attach considerably greater weight to the observations of at least a majority of all these workers than they sometimes incline to grant to those of each other, the literature and iconography of histology become of little worth. Since La Valette, however, most observers have admitted the existence of several methods ;
the homology—indeed the primordial identity of the primitive germinal cells—of male ovule with female ovule has been often pointed out, and the general resemblance of the process of spermatogenesis to that of segmentation has been noted, and even accented by the use of terms like sperm-morula, sperm-blastula, &c. But it is not enough to make such a comparison in general terms ; it must be either susceptible of definite refutation or confirmation by appeal to details ; and the present writer has hence elsewhere attempted to compare the various modes of spermatogenesis with the corresponding modes of segmentation of the ovum, and so reconcile the conflict of testimony and opinion upon the subject. (8)
Ontogeny of the Spermatozoon. —The origin of the spermatozoon from the spermatocyte is, as we have seen above, a phenomenon of considerable complexity. It has long been known to arise from the nucleus and the tail from the protoplasm, and Flemming in 1880 gave further precision to our knowledge by tracing the head of the spermatozoon of Salamandra from the chromatin of the nucleus. Various observers had also noted, besides the nucleus, the appearance of a small denser mass of protoplasm within the spermatocyte, the “ accessory corpuscle” (Nebenkcrn, corpuscle , précurseur), but its origin and fate have scarcely yet been settled with complete clearness. It appears, however, to arise from the nucleus, the remaining portion of the nucleus going to form the main portion of the head, while a film of superjacent protoplasm stretches over it, thickens somewhat to form the middle piece, and becomes drawn out into the filamentous tail, which frees itself from the remains of its spermatocyte and swims away (3 to 8 in fig. 5). Von Brunn has recently described in Birds the origin of this accessory corpuscle with especial clearness by the division of the nucleus of the developing spermatozoon. In Mammalia the “ cap ” of the young spermatozoon is described by Renson as nucleus, and by others as protoplasm, and it has been compared by many authors to the polar vesicle of the ovum. In Plagiostome Fishes Semper describes, and others confirm, the existence of an additional nucleus, or “problematic body,” which appears to correspond to the sum of the accessory corpuscles of all the spermatozoa, and this, after their escape, has been shown by Swaen and Masquelin to fuse with the nucleus of the basilar cell. The resemblance of this embryonic and transitory structure to the permanent post-nuclear segment of the curious almost amoeboid spermatozoon of Ascaris is closely suggestive of their homology, and it is also interesting to note, in figures of the developing spermatozoa of Selachians, their considerable resemblance to the fringed adult spermatozoa of many Platyhel-minthes. (8)
The Ovum,.
History.—From the earliest times naturalists have of course been familiar with the form and function of the ova of a great number of animals ; the only seriously disputable question (excepting that of spontaneous generation) has been that of the like origin of the embryo in Mammals. The history of the discovery is a curious one. Galen had described the human ovaries as testes muliebres, but the term ovary is due to Steno (1664), who like our most modern investigators started in his comparisons from the corresponding organs in Sharks and Rays. In 1672 Regner de Graaf, in a remarkable work upon the structure of the ovary and its accessory organs, not only described in the ovary in Birds and Mammals the follicles which now bear his name, and which he regarded as the ova, but made the generalization of the universal occurrence of ova throughout the animal kingdom, and even observed the ovum in the oviduct of the Rabbit. His opinion, however, was overborne by the authority of his more famous countryman Leeuwenhoek, who regarded not the oviduct but the ovary, and more precisely the corpus luteum, as the seat of development of the embryo. The observation of De Graaf was repeated at the end of last century by Cruikshank, and again by Prévost and Dumas. The definite establishment of our present knowledge of the Mammalian ovum dates only from 1827, when Von Baer clearly traced the ovum from the uterus back to its earliest appearance in the oviduct, and thence to its origin within the Graafian follicle. Piirkinje had meanwhile (1825) described the “germinal vesicle ” in the Chick, Coste showed its occurrence in the Mammalian ovum, and Wagner discovered (1836) the “germinal spot” in Mammalian and other ova. (9)
Mass and Chemical Composition of the Ovum.—The absence of any extensive measurements of the ovum in the various groups, either absolutely or in comparison with the bulk of the parent, renders it impossible to generalize with any great degree of definiteness. While from some comparisons it is at once apparent that the higher the organization the larger the ovum, many independently variable factors affect this, e.g., the size, organization, or maturity of the parent, the duration of stay in the oviduct, and the climate and other surroundings. Examples of such variation are readily seen ; it is natural that self-supporting larval forms should start with smaller food-yolk than those which develop before leaving the egg, and among placental Mammals that the continuous supply of nutriment from the parental resources should.
supersede wliat would otherwise require to be a gigantic store of yolk.
Our as yet crude analyses of ova of course reveal the presence of numerous highly nutritive substances, both albuminous and fatty—none, however, characteristic of the ovum alone. The general analysis of the Fowl’s yolk is quoted by Hensen as follows:—water 472־ percent., albumin stuffs 156־, ethereal extracts 314־, alcoholic extract 48־, ash 1 = 100,—these results of course covering au unknown degree of complexity. Thus numerous more or less distinct albuminoid substances have been described by different authors—vitellin, ichthin, ichthidin, emydin, Ac., while nuclein seems to be of special importance; the ethereal extract yields very distinct fats, not only non-nitrogenous, but nitrogenous (e.g., lecithin) ; cholesterin and many other complex products of anabolic and kata-bolic change are also present; and so on. The subject is at present peculiarly unfit for profitable summarization, and details must be sought from the bibliography. (10)
Oogenesis.—Since the different modes of origin of the ova in the various groups are at once less complicated and in general outline less debateable than the corresponding process of spermatogenesis, in regard to which the state of opinion is so unsettled, a much less detailed account must here suffice, especially since a review of the different processes in any detail would involve an unwieldy compression of the available summaries of Balfour and others. Only a few of the more interesting and suggestive examples can be here mentioned.
The origin of the ova within the mesoderm of the Sponge, which has been already referred to, is obviously one of the simplest cases, recalling the occurrence of reproductive cells in such a sub-Metazoan form as Volvox. In regard to the Ccelentera the controversy over Van Beneden’s hypothesis of the endodermic origin of the ova has been already mentioned ; and in connexion with this Weismann’s theory may be noted, according to which in most Hydroids the reproductive cells are only differentiated late in life, so that the actual germinal substance or mother-protoplasm is not present from the first in cellular form but in molecule groups, scattered among the somatic cells and spread perhaps over various asexual generations, to be gathered up at some favourable epoch and in the most convenient situation in the definite form of ova.
In the group of Vermes the general history is that some favourably situated cells of the epithelial lining of the coelom proliferate, enlarge, assume the characters of ova, and fall off into the body-cavity. A simple instance of this in Tomopteris has been already referred to (fig. 1).
Sagitta furnishes a very suggestive illustration of oogenesis—where one half of the primitive reproductive cell goes to form the ovary and the other half the testis. In Bonellia we find a beautiful example of the very frequent subordination of several reproductive cells to the perfecting of one. In each mass of possible ova (which arise from the division of primitive germinal cells situated round the ventral vessel just above the nerve cord) only one—adjoining the stalk and therefore near the source of nutrition—becomes a differentiated ovum, while the others atrophy. In Platyhelminthes the later stages of oogenesis are especially interesting, because the nutritive equipment of the ovarian ova is in many cases partially furnished by the direct absorption of some of the cells of the yolk-gland or vitellarium, which is itself probably a degenerate portion of the ovarian tract in which over-nutrition has checked reproduction. Thus the ovum comes to be the result of a number of cells. Weismann’s interesting observations on the winter-eggs of some Crustaceans afford beautiful illustration of the subordination of a large number of germinal cells to the nutrition of a few, while in Mollusca this nutrition of the ovum is otherwise effected by the direct passage of food-material from the ordinary epithelial cells of the ovarian pouches.
The oogenesis of Insects, which has been the subject of so much discussion, is chiefly characterized by the very frequent presence in
the ovarian tube of a large number of germinal cells which are wholly nutritive, and which serve to equip the minority of truly reproductive cells. Such cases inevitably raise the long-standing dispute as to the unicellular character of the ovum,—some authors
(e.g., Brandt) describing the ovum as a cell of the second order, formed from a complex of the primitive nuclei or “ooblasts," which are combined in the terminal chamber of the ovarian tube, and which unite to form on the one hand the germinal vesicle of the ovum with enveloping protoplasm, and on the other the surrounding follicular cells. One of the most recent discussions of Insect oogenesis is that of Will, who maintains the origin of the follicular nuclei from a multiple division of the original primitive nucleus or ooblast, the residue forming the germinal vesicle, a mode of origin previously maintained by other investigators both of oogenesis and spermatogenesis (fig. 7). In some Echinodermuta, and in other groups, it lias been repeatedly observed that the undifferentiated germinal cells form the elements of the follicular epithelium round the ova.
A debateable but suggestive theory of oogenesis has been propounded, especially by Kussbaum and Weismann, who maintain that in many cases the reproductive cells do not arise as differentiations of somatic cells, but are marked off from the first, in some cases even before the formation of the germ-layers. According to this ingenious hypothesis,—supported, however, by little direct observation—the reproductive elements would form a continuous immortal chain connecting the highest forms with their Protozoan ancestry, whose direct protoplasmic continuity has been of late also strongly insisted upon (see Puotozoa).'
Dispute has also arisen as to the origin of the follicular cells of the Tunicata, some deriving them from external juxtaposition of germinal cells, and others from migration of nuclei from within outwards, as in some Insecta ; and a similar uncertainty prevails as to the nature and origin of certain cell-like bodies (“test-cells”) which appear within the yolk.
In the Craniata the ova appear in the germinal epithelium of the ovarian ridge, which is always in contact with .the stroma. They differ from the surrounding cells at first mainly in their greater size, being possessed of abundant protoplasm and a large granular nucleus. Increasing in number by division or by continued differentiation of other epithelial cells, the primitive ova usually form into masses, as the result of which some atrophy and others predominate. The permanent ova once formed and defined are surrounded by a special follicle, probably resulting in most cases from superjacent epithelial cells.
None of the disputes above referred to can be said to invalidate the general view of the essentially unicellular nature of the ovum (see below); and a discussion of the numerous speculations on the more fundamental problem of the stages of sexual differentiation is deferred to the article Sex. (11)
Structure of the Ovum.—While the structure of a sufficiently young ovum is simply that of an ordinary embryonic cell, its protoplasm being naked and often amoeboid, and provided with a nucleus and nucleolus, the developed ovum has usually a quite characteristic appearance. Not only have its parts usually undergone considerable enlargement in size, but also in details of minute structure; the nucleus and nucleolus are, however, still recognizable as the germinal vesicle and germinal spot, while the protoplasm has usually become modified by the presence of a more or less considerable quantity of food-yolk, and by the development of an external membrane.
The young amoeboid phase of so many (perhaps all) ova was first well described in the egg of Hydra (fig. 8, h), in which the nucleus and nucleolus, the lobed pseudopodial processes of the protoplasm, and the abundant yolk spherules can be well made out. A somewhat later phase of development is w^ell shown in the next figure of the egg of a Sea-Urchin, in which the process of encystment has begun, and the protoplasm is seen with its amoeboid processes radiating through the incipient egg-membrane, while in fig. 8, d the protoplasm has no longer an amoeboid
character—the investing membrane or zona radiata is regularly perforated by radiating canals, of which the
pseudopodial origin and the nutritive function are equally obvious. The resemblance of such stages to definite Protozoan types is not a little remarkable; thus, while, in fig. 8, b is perfectly amoeboid, the resemblance of c to a Heliozoon or of d to a Gregarine is almost equally striking.
The ovum is rarely destitute of egg-membranes, but these may be of very various kinds : thus we may have a vitelline membrane proper, formed by the protoplasm of the ovum, or a chorion formed by the cells of the follicle; or secondary membranes may be present (alone or in addition to the primary membrane) like the shell of a Bird’s egg, which is formed by the walls of the oviduct, or the shell of many Trematode ova, which is secreted by a special gland.
Any or all of these membranes may be provided with a special aperture, the micropyle, first discovered by Keber, but this is by no means universally present, as he supposed. This may correspond to the point of attachment of the immature ovum, or may arise elsewhere ; in the first case its function is obviously nutritive, though later it may also serve for the entrance of the spermatozoon.
The identification of the ovum as a cell, and of its germinal vesicle and spot as nucleus and nucleolus, although a result only established after prolonged controversy, and of capital importance, is sufficiently familiar. The invaluable labours of the older generation of embryologists from Yon Baer to Allen Thomson, and even the still classical monographs of sucli recent workers as Waldeyer or Ludwig (1874), can only be alluded to; this department of the subject is, however, of peculiarly easy access, thanks to the exceptionally excellent state of its bibliography, and to the recent discussions of Balfour, Hensen, and others. Much, however, remains to be ascertained respecting the finer histology of the ovum, and many investigations are at present in active progress, along the lines of that more general inquiry into the minute structure of cells in general which has of recent years been again becoming of paramount interest in morphological research.
The protoplasm of the ovum may, as has been said, acquire a very varying quantity of food yolk,—may become, that is to say, more or less closely packed with highly refracting spherules of modified protoplasm (see egg of Hydra, fig. 8, b), which may again present various morphological differentiations, as in Ascaris (fig. 11). And, as explained below under segmentation, it is with regard to the presence, amount, and position of the food-yolk that the important varieties of that process are to be understood.
The great differentiation both of protoplasm and of yolk in the animal series, as might be expected, appears to exhibit all gradations from the most simple amoeboid state of a more or less granulated or semi-fluid mass to the most problematical complexity. Of this the best known instance is probably that of the egg of Ascaris, described by Van Beneden (vide infra, pp. 416 sq.). Not only has a protoplasmic network been frequently described in both holoblastic and meroblastic ova, but a radiate structure as well,—the former evidently corresponding to the stroma first described by Frommann and Heitzmann and subsequently by so many authors in both animal and vegetable cells, while the latter appearance recalls the striated appearance of the ectoplasm of certain amoeboid organisms described by Strasburger. The concentric differentiation of the ovum has also often been described, and is lately well discussed by Flemming, Brass, and others. Thus Pflüger, in the half-ripe ovum of the Cat, describes the central mass as clear, the cortical layer as rich in granules; Yan Beneden in the egg of the Bat
enumerates two similar layers surrounded by an almost granular cortical layer; while Flemming himself, in the ovum of the Rabbit, describes a coarsely granular region around the nucleus, a clearer central region finely granular and with a reticulated structure, and a coarsely granular cortical region. \Ve have still, however, to learn how far such differentiations in structure—reticulate, radial, and concentric—are constant for individual or general cases, and how far they may be permanent or merely incidental to certain phases of development.
In these regards the recent publications of Carnoy and Brass are of special interest—the former on account of its minuteness of micrographic detail, the latter in its attempt at physiological interpretation. The results of the former will be best understood from his own figures (fig. 9).
Brass, starting from the familiar structure of an amoeba, with its clear and granular ectoplasm, from which the pseudopodia are emitted, its semi-fluid and highly granular endoplasm around the nucleus, and the less granular intermediate zone, assigns to these definite physiological functions,—to the first that of contractility (Bewegungs-plasma), to the second that of nutrition (Emdhrungs-plasma), and to the third that mainly of respiration (Athmungsplasma, Nahrungsschicht). He holds that some such concentric disposition of the protoplasm is a normal and constant fact of cell-structure, and insists upon it with special reference to the ovum. From his somewhat vague and diffuse development of these views, it must suffice here to note his opinion that the chromatin of the nucleus, as well as the protoplasmic reticulum, and in fact all the former constituents of the cell, are of quite secondary importance to the colourless protoplasm. The former is to him in fact no more than reserve material, while to the latter he assigns all active functions,—thus” substantially reviving the view so long and energetically maintained by Beale. The recent observations of Wielowiejski may also be noted in this connexion, as he not only brings his contribution to the ontogeny of the ovum, but to some extent also distinguishes a regional adaptation of its protoplasmic structure-to its functions.
From the rapid succession of new contributions to the solution of the problem of egg and cell structure might be gathered many other points of interest, morphological and physiological, empirical and speculative. Thus, for instance, Sabatier describes senile degeneration in Ascidian ova, an observation of wide suggestiveness; while, again, on the important problem of the relation of nucleus to protoplasm there are many recent discussions, e.g., from
Flemming and Strasburger, Pflüger and Hertwig; the solution, however, is not complete. Again, can we recognize in the ovum any indication of the position of the future embryo—any fixed points, anterior and posterior, lateral or even polar—further, of course, than the obvious distinction due to the presence of yolk? After the old theory of “ evolution ” of the embryo, according to which the egg contained the complete organism in miniature, had been finally replaced by that of epigenesis, the wholly undifferentiated form of the ovum seems to have become tacitly assumed. Recent observers, e.g., Van Beneden (see below), have, however, been so far reviving the old view in that they endeavour to distinguish, even in the unfertilized ovum, the position of the ends and sides of the embryo; others dispute this, and an interesting controversy is in progress. The speculation that a more or less considerable share in the differentiation of the ovum might be due to the separation of its various constituents according to their different specific gravities—at first apparently emitted by Jäger,—has also reappeared in this regard. Pflüger has observed the segmentation of Frogs’ ova fixed in various positions, and describes the plane of first segmentation as constantly vertical, whatever might be its angle to the morphological axis of the ovum, uniting black and white poles. Development too was usually normal, save that when the upper hemisphere was entirely white abnormality and death followed, and even if inversion was less complete segmentation often stopped. Further experiments led him to the conclusion that the nervous system, and correspondingly other organs, may develop from any portion of the egg-substance—that the egg in short is “isotropic.” Certain limitations, however, appeared : the blastopore never arose on the upper hemisphere, nor (like the nervous system) ever on the black region, but both always at the intersection of the white area with the third equatorial plane of segmentation. This he terms the point of crystallization of the specialized organism, and goes on to speculate as to the molecular structure of the ovum.
These results have, however, been the subject of keen criticism. Thus Roux showed that the specific gravity of the black pole is distinctly less than that of the white, and found that on eliminating the action of gravity by the use of a centrifugal machine the development remained normal, and on repeating Pfliiger’s own fundamental observations described the axis of segmentation as coinciding with that of the ovum. After similarly eliminating light, heat, and earth-magnetism, he sums .up in precisely opposite terms to Pflüger, who had laid all stress on the influence of the forces of the environment, and regards development as purely a process of self-differentiation. O. Hertwig also maintains that the influence of gravity is only a secondary one, the plane of division being for him determined by the position of the axis of the dividing nucleus, and this again having a definite relation to the form and state of differentiation of the surrounding protoplasm. He admits, however, the indirect importance of gravity on eggs having a yolk, and so leaves the question still to a considerable extent open. In another paper he adopts Pflügers conception of the isotropy of the ovum, holding that the yolk is not so organized that from any definite region of it a definite organ arises, but that the nucleus is the sole centre of activity and control. It is thus evident that a reinvestigation is needed which would embrace the whole question of geotropism. See Physiology (Vegetable). (12)
Maturation of the Ovum.—Polar Bodies.—The period of development and nutrition of the ovum may be regarded as complete when the full size and complex structure above described have been reached, and in this state it
most frequently leaves the body of the parent. In the majority of cases at least, new changes have still to be gone through before fertilization takes place, still more development; and a series of important structural modifications, doubtless the expression of extensive functional rearrangements, takes place. To this new and obscure phase of the life-history of the ovum the term maturation has conveniently been applied.
Although some of these phenomena have long been familiar to embryologists, the classical investigations are the comparatively recent ones of Biitschli, Oscar Hertwig, and especially Fol (1877); more lately those of Sabatier, of Flemming, and above all of Van Beneden. If we postpone details, the main facts of the process as until recently understood can be most readily grasped from Fol’s figures of the ovum of the Starfish, of which the most important are copied in fig. 10. In the new-laid egg the germinal
vesicle is at first a clearly defined sphere, with well-marked membrane, reticulum, and germinal spot. It begins, however, to become irregular and changeful in form, its membrane and reticulum meanwhile disappearing, with the apparent dissolution of a portion of its contents in the yolk. The germinal spot also vanishes, and two ill-defined clear spots are alone distinguishable in the yolk. Treatment with reagents shows these clear spots to correspond to two star-like figures like those of a certain stage of the division of nucleus of an ordinary cell, while in a somewhat later stage a nuclear spindle is shown near the surface of the egg. The upper portion of this is segmented off (surrounded by very little of the protoplasm of the ovum) as a polar body, while the lower portion of the body remains as the “ female pronucleus,” and may be seen surrounded by radial striae. Two or even more polar bodies may be formed, but they never take any part in the subsequent life-history of the ovum, and sooner or later disappear.
In view of the profound theoretic importance of this subject, it is necessary to summarize some of the most important recent observations. Thus Balbiani and Weismann (1882) describe the occurrence of polar vesicles in the ova of Insects, in which they had long been supposed not to occur, and Flemming (1885) represents a nuclear figure which he regards as corresponding to at any rate the first stage of the formation of a polar vesicle, in the ova of Mammals, at the period of bursting of the Graafian follicle. Such researches practically complete the chain of evidence for the generalization that the process of maturation of the ovum is essentially similar in all classes of Metazoa, and this not only in its initial stages of internal rearrangement or modification, but even in its later stage of polar vesicle formation. The absence of polar vesicles in parthenogenetic ova (predicted on theoretic grounds) seems, however, possible in some cases, but is by no means certain in all.
Our knowledge of the process of maturation has been much extended and modified by the recent elaborate monograph of E. Van Beneden (1883). He finds the egg of Ascaris to show not only two definite poles—a “ pole of impregnation ” and an opposite “ neutral pole ”—but some indication of the anterior and posterior regions and consequently of the right and left sides of the embryo. The substance of the ovum is also remarkably differentiated,—that
of the “ polar disk ” alone exhibiting a vertical striation, and differentiating into two layers, superficial and subjacent (termed achromophilous and cliromophilous respectively). The subjacent vitellus is distinguished into several layers, (central, intermediate, and cortical), and contains yolk elements of three distinct kinds, while the enveloping protoplasm has a distinctly reticulated and !fibrillar structure, like the stroma of so many animal and vegetable cells. The germinal vesicle is practically homogeneous save that the portion surrounding its eccentric germinal spot is distinguished into an investing portion or spherical envelope, the “ prothyalo-soma,” and an “accessory portion,” which usually contains one or two “pseudo-nucleoli.” In the ripe egg Van Beneden describes new complexities within the germinal spot; this consists of two juxtaposed quadrilateral disks, each containing four chromatin globules, united by a substance having less affinity for colouring matter. lfadiating from these two disks, achromatin threads arise in the prothyalosoma, but stress is laid on the fact that no grouping of the chromatin elements into a stardike figure takes place. The spherical shape of the germinal spot is now modified by the intrusion on each side of a large homogeneous droplet from the vitellus into the prothyalosoma, so that in optical section it comes to have a T-shape, the accessory portion being mainly compressed to form the stalk of the T. At this stage the spermatozoon usually commences to work its way into the ovum, but does not yet affect the germinal vesicle or germinal spot, which proceed to the formation of polar globules. The T-shaped gradually passes into the “ ypsiliform ” figure, so called from its resemblance to the Greek T. Its steadily diverging branches, which are formed from the prothyalosoma, move upwards till they reach the surface of the vitellus, their fibrillar structure already noted meanwhile becoming well marked. Each bundle bears one of the two groups of four chromatin globules which compose the germinal spot.
Next the vertical branch of the ypsiliform figure swings upwards to the surface, and a new branch is formed as a continuation of the same line ; the whole figure is thus cross-shaped, with the prothyalosoma in the centre, but this cross soon disappears, leaving the prothyalosoma with its two chromatin groups. These are now divided, by a plane tangential to the surface of the vitellus, into two equal parts, and the upper of these, containing of course half the prothyalosoma with half of each of the two chromatin disks, becomes the first polar globule. Yan Beneden lays great stress on the fact that this plane of division is not transverse to the oblique spindle formed by the diverging branches of the T, as was to be expected from the views of all previous observers, but on the contrary is parallel to it.
The remaining portion of the prothyalosoma with its two chromatin disks, together with the surrounding protoplasm, now proceeds to the separation of the second polar vesicle. Despite differences in detail, the essential facts are the same : a spindle with a star-like figure at each end is formed; this at first lies radially in the vitellus, but afterwards becomes superficial, and its division takes place as before by an axial not an equatorial plane.
A still later and also elaborate discussion is due to Sabatier (1884). While combating the peculiar views suggested by
Weismann and others as to the polar globules of Insects (as that they re-enter the ovum to form the rudiments of the future reproductive organs), he admits that they may be emitted at both poles of the ovum, and may either break up, be reabsorbed, or even in some cases form peculiar structures surrounding the ovum (e. g., the follicular cells of Ascidians). He describes in Buccinum, &c., the extrusion of somewhat amoeboid masses of clear protoplasm at several distinct points and frequently without the appearance of any nuclear spindle ; and these may even repeatedly divide. He holds that the centrifugal extrusion of elements from ova is much more general than is usually recognized, and distinguishes these into three kinds :—(1)
“globules précoces,” which usually go to form the elements of the follicle ; (2) “globules tardifs,” which appear later; and (3) true polar vesicles, which alone are associated with karyokinetic changes of the nucleus.
Like Yan Beneden, he notes that polar vesicle formation is not strictly comparable to ordinary cell-division in being not transverse but longitudinal to the nuclear spindle.
From this point little advance has been made, though careful reviews of the subject are due to Flemming, J. T. Cunningham, and others. (13)
Fertilization or Impregnation of the Ovum.—The fundamental generalization now so familiar—that the process of fertilization for plant and animal alike lies in the material union of both sexual products—although said to have been propounded by Alcmæon (580 B.c.), and even described by Hartsoeker (1750), is pointed out by Hensen to be essentially due in the first place to the experimental researches on plant hybridization of Kolreuter (1761). Jacobi soon afterwards artificially fertilized the eggs of Trout and Salmon, but the most important and really convincing work was that of Spallanzani (1780), who experimented on the Frog, Tortoise, and Bitch. He unfortunately, however, concluded that spermatozoa might be absent without preventing fertilization, and ascribed all fertilizing powers to their fluid medium, so establishing an error which required for its elimination many successive researches. Prévost and Dumas (1824) showed that filtration really deprived the seminal fluid of its powers. Martin Barry (1843) actually observed spermatozoa within the zona pellucida of the Rabbit’s ovum ; Leuckart (1849) repeated both preceding observations in the Frog; Nelson (1852) observed the entrance of the spermatozoa into the ovum of Ascaris ; while Keber (1853) discovered the micropyle in the ovum of the Mussel, and watched the passage of the spermatozoon through it into the yolk. It only remained for these results to be confirmed by the high authority of Bischoff and Allen Thomson (1854); and the knowledge of the subject thus reached its second stage, where it practically remained for nearly twenty years.
Aided by the advance of histological technique, a new plane was reached (1875-76) by the brilliant researches of Yan Beneden on the ovum of the Rabbit, and of O. Hertwig and Fol on Echinoderm ova. The spermatozoon@@1 was thus shown not to disappear into the yolk, but to form from its head or nucleus the “ male pronucleus,” which meets and fuses with the “ female pronucleus,” as the germinal vesicle is termed, after the extrusion of the polar body, This new “ conjugation-nucleus ” soon exhibits karyokinetic changes and divides, and the segmentation of the ovum rapidly progresses.
As a full account of these and other papers up to 1880 is given by Balfour (Embryology, vol. i. ), it will suffice to note the more important subsequent researches, especially as those, though with
@@@1 That, though more than one spermatozoon may pass through the vitelline membrane, only one normally enters the vitellus and becomes a male pronucleus has been well made out by Hertwig, Fol, and others. In the rare cases where more spermatozoa than one force an entrance, Fol has observed the monstrous double segmentation of the ovum, and argues forcibly for the hypothesis that we have to look in this process of “ polyspermy ” for the explanation of numerous teratological and pathological changes.
one exception confirmatory, penetrate somewhat further into details. The general process can be made out with especial clearness in fig. 13.
Oscar Hertwig had clearly enunciated in 1875 that “fertilization depends upon the conjugation of two sexually differentiated nuclei.” This view has, however, lately (1883) been controverted by A. Schneider, who regards the radii which are seen in the ovum about the pronuclei as arising from the substance of the germinal vesicle alone, and who maintains the origin of the male pronucleus independently of the spermatozoon, which he believes to disappear. As Van Beneden, Nussbaum, and Flemming have since, however, successively controverted these views, Hertwig’s account of the process may safely be retained, at any rate with the slight modification insisted on by Flemming, who prefers to describe the conjugation-nucleus as arising from the union of “the chromatin of a male with that of a female nuclear body.”
In Yan Beneden’s work on the fecundation of Ascaris the penetration of a single spermatozoon into the vitellus and its transmutation into the male pronucleus are copiously figured and described. Most important, however, is perhaps his account of the formation and segmentation of the conjugation-nucleus. The. female pronucleus undergoes changes resembling those preceding ordinary nuclear division; so also does the male; and the chromatin of each breaks up from the state of a single continuous and convoluted fibril into two V-shaped loops. The two pro-nuclear membranes now fuse ; and the resultant conjugation-nucleus thus contains four loops of chromatin, of which two are male and two female. Each loop now undergoes longitudinal division ; a nuclear spindle is meanwhile forming from the achromatin substance of the segmentation-nucleus, and this now proceeds to divide, but in such wise that each of the two daughter nuclei receives two of its four half loops of chromatin from the female and two from the male pronucleus. A circular furrow appears, dividing the ovum equatorially ; a cell plate like that of a vegetable cell arises in the same plane ; and the two first blastomeres are soon completely formed, and proceed to redivide in the same way.
The results of Nussbaum are essentially similar so far as they go; Strasburger’s recent work summarized below contains a thorough confirmation of these accounts of the process of fecundation so far as plants are concerned; while most recently (1885) 0. Hertwig has re-stated his original theorem with a discussion of its physiological aspects and consequences. (14)
Segmentation of the Ovum.—The process of segmentation has already been repeatedly mentioned. As with the other histological problems presented by the ovum, our knowledge of its minute details is in a somewhat unsettled yet rapidly advancing state, due to the progress of the wider inquiry into cell structure and cell division in general. The essential correspondence of the changes to be observed in the conjugation-nucleus and yolk with those of ordinary cell-division (see Protozoa, vol. xix. p. 833, fig. 1) has been worked out by many
observers, and Van Beneden’s more minute account of the process is summarized above. Our knowledge of its external features is of much older date, and has been comparatively recently brought together by Balfour (Embryology., i., chap, iii.); the present limits permit only the briefest summary.
In the simplest case—that of small ova destitute of food-yolk,—the ovum divides by a vertical plane into two segments or blastomeres, each of these again into two, and
so on, and a mass of 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, &c., cells is thus formed, but in the resultant mulberry-mass or morula the cells are all equal and similar. Such segmentation is termed regular; commonly, however, the regularity and equality of ordinary cell-division is more or less interfered with by the presence of food-yolk. In this regard Balfour enunciates the valuable general law “ that the velocity of segmentation in any part of the ovum is, roughly speaking, proportional to the concentration of the protoplasm there, and that the size of the segments is inversely proportional to the concentration of the protoplasm.” Bearing this in mind, the varieties of segmentation are intelligible enough ; thus the unequal segmentation of the Frog’s ovum (fig. 15) needs no further explanation. These two
preceding types, in which segmentation is complete, were distinguished by Remak as “ holoblastic,” and were long looked upon as wholly distinct from “ meroblastic ” ova like that of Fowls or most Fishes, in which segmentation is partial, i.e., confined to a small area of the surface of the yolk.
Balfour’s law, however, explains these cases as only an exaggeration of the preceding case, due to the greater accumulation of food-yolk, and the consequent check to segmentation at the lower or vegetative pole. Another form of partial segmentation is presented by many Arthropods, in which the yolk occupies a central position within the ovum, and three varieties of this “ centrolecithal ” process are distinguished—equal, unequal, and superficial.
While the ontogenetic process of segmentation in general and of regular segmentation in particular is usually regarded as being a recapitulation of the phylogenetic development of the primitive Metazoon from its Protozoan ancestor, the vast nutritive importance of the food-yolk, and the consequent high variability of its quantity in relation to the habits and circumstances both of parent and offspring, render its wide variations in detail a totally unsafe guide to affinities. A single genus may, in fact, exhibit extreme forms. (11)
§ 3. SYSTEMATIC AND GENERAL EMBRYOLOGY.
While it is impossible to compress within the limits of the present article the subject-matter of a full treatise on embryology, an attempt must be made to touch in turn upon (1) the empirical facts, (2) the concrete inductions, and (3) the abstract generalizations of development.
1. A sketch of the history of this branch of the science is given under Embryology (q.v.), while for detailed information as to the division and differentiation of the ovum in each group, and as to the more or less marked changes by which the resulting embryonic forms assume the adult organization, the reader must be referred to the separate articles (Sponges, Hydrozoa, Mollusca, &c.), as w׳ell as to the classical work of Balfour. The more important empirical facts need thus only the briefest outline.
Protozoa.—Since the young Protozoon, whatever its mode of origin from the parent form may be, rarely differs from the latter
except in size and phase of cell-life, there is little to be noted here in regard to the development of the group, except in such cases as Katallacta and Volvocineaz, where a primitive attempt towards a more or less temporary multicellular form affords us a first hint of the Metazoan segmentation of the ovum.
Dicyemida.—In this degenerate and still somewhat problematical intermediate group the asexually produced ovum segments to form an embryo of great simplicity, where a few outer (ectodermal) cells cluster round a single inner (endodermal) one, and where we thus find the first differentiation of the embryo into the cell-layers constantly exhibited in the succeeding groups, though it is unsettled whether this represent the incipient or the degenerate Metazoan type.
Porifcra. —In a calcareous Sponge, such as Sycandra, the fertilized amoeboid ovum segments within the parent to form a hollow blastosphere, most of the cells of which are clear and ciliated, and partially cover a number of larger granular cells,—the future endoderm and ectoderm respectively. In the free-swimming embryo the latter nutritive cells increase rapidly in size, and, growing ultimately over the locomotor and respiratory ciliated cells, cause them to become invaginated to form the endoderm. This invagination resulting in the obliteration of the “segmentation cavity” and the formation of the “gastrula” stage is perfected as the young Sponge settles down and becomes fixed by processes from the amoeboid ectoderm cells. The cilia of the endoderm disappear ; the blastopore is obliterated ; between ectoderm and endoderm there appears a third germinal layer or mesoderm, and in it the calcareous spicules of the Sponge are developed. A perforation at the top of the inverted gastrula forms the exhalent aperture ; peripheral inhalent pores also arise ; and this renewed exposure of the endoderm cells to direct contact with the water is followed by their return to the ciliated form. See Sponges.
Ccelentera.—The generally equal segmentation of the ovum results as usual in a solid or hollow morula. The formation of the two layers, as in some other groups, may occur either by invagination, as above described, or by a process of separation of inner from outer, termed delamination. In most Ccelentera the tissues which in higher groups are strictly mesodermal originate from the direct differentiation of the two primary layers. The larval form most constant in the Ccelentera is the planula (see Hydrozoa, vol. xii. p. 557). It is ciliated, two-layered, almost cylindrical, witharudimentary digestive cavity, generally closed. For discussion of the alternation of generations so characteristic of many Coelenterates see Hydrozoa and Sex.
Vermes.— The development of the unjointed Worms is too varied to admit of general summary. In some we find illustration of that mode of gastrula formation (epibolic), so common in higher groups, where, owing to the large size of the food-packed endoderm cells, an actual invagination is impossible, but the ectoderm cells grow round the others and thus come to enclose them as in the more primitive process. In such a typical higher Worm as Lumbricus, the segmentation, which varies in regularity according to the species, results in the formation of a blastosphere with readily distinguishable ectoderm and endoderm ; the invagination of the latter results in a somewhat cylindrical gastrula. The blastopore narrows anteriorly to form the permanent mouth, while in some other Chsetopods a similar narrowing in the opposite direction forms not the mouth but the anus. The mesoderm appears very early in the form of posteriorly situated cells on each side of the middle line, and soon two mesoblastic bands are formed extending to the mouth. These are subsequently divided into blocks or somites, the anterior and posterior walls of two adjacent blocks uniting to form the cross partitions of the adult Worm, while the outer and inner walls form respectively the somatic and splanchnic layers. The ventral nerve cord results from the sinking in and union of two epiblastic thickenings, developed one on each side of a ventral furrow, while the supra-cesophageal ganglion has a distinct origin from a dorsal thickening. The somewhat isolated Sagltta affords good illustration of the formation of the body-cavity from two lateral lobes of the archenteron. The simple enteric cavity normally formed exhibits anteriorly a division into a middle lobe and two side pouches uniting behind in the single cavity. The middle lobe is separated off from lateral and posterior cavities as a blind tube which afterwards forms the alimentary canal; the side pouches form the body-cavity (see Tapeworms, Planarians, Nemertines, Annelida, &c.).
Echinodermata.—The generally uniform segmentation results in a blastosphere, usually elongated in the direction of the axis of invagination. A gastrula is formed by normal invagination, in the course of which amoeboid cells are budded off from the two sides of the advancing depression to form the mesodermic musculature and connective tissue of the adult. The blastopore forms the larval anus, which does not always persist; the larval mouth is permanent, and is the result of an independent ectodermic invagination meeting the archenteron. The coelom or body-cavity, with its mesodermic lining, arises from a paired or single outgrowth of the archenteron, and the water-vascular vesicle which comes to lie round the oesophagus has a similar origin. For an outline of the nature of the larval forms and the passage of the embryonic organs into those of the adult the reader is referred to Echinodermata.
Arthropoda.—The interesting Pcripatus (see Myriapoda, vol. xvii. p. 116) exhibits in its development phenomena, such as that of the elongated blastopore gradually closing from the middle, so as to leave mouth and anus, and that of the surrounding nerve cord, which suggest affinities through the whole animal kingdom from Ccelentera on the one hand to Vertebrata on the other ; but of these discussion is still far from ended. The development of the Insect ovum illustrates what is termed centrolecithal segmentation, where a single uniform layer of superficial cells encloses a nucleated but undivided central yolk mass. The blastoderm becomes thickened ventrally; and along the middle line of the ventral plate there appears a groove which is the seat of the mesoderm formation. The development of the Vertebrate amnion is recalled by the formation of two enveloping membranes from folds of the blastoderm, which arch over and coalesce over the ventral plate, and at the same time spread upwards to cover the dorsal integument from which they are eventually separated. Both disappear through absorption or rupture either before or during hatching. The mesoderm is divided into two lateral bands, and these into hollow somites, which together form the perivisceral cavity. As usual the outer layer of mesoderm follows the ectoderm, the inner the endoderm, which probably arises from a secondary segmentation of the yolk. The ventral plate extends to a slight extent dorsally both before and behind, and on it the appendages appear as hollow outgrowths of ectoderm and endoderm. The ventral nerve cord arises from two sunken thickenings of ectoderm, the tracheae as invaginations of the same. The middle section of the alimentary tract is formed from endoderm, the anterior and posterior portions from ectodermic invaginations. For an account of larval metamorphosis, &c., see Insects.
Crustacea.—In these the segmentation is usually centrolecithal, and results in a uniform blastoderm enclosing a central yolk mass without traces of division. The gastrula stage is represented by an invagination of a patch of the blastoderm, which forms the endoderm, and from which the mesodermic cells seem also to arise. A ventral thickening of ectoderm continuous with the invaginated portion forms the ventral plate on which the embryo is mapped out. Along it the nerve cord appears as a median thickening, and the sense organs have as usual a similar ectodermic origin. The mesoderm appears to form the usual tissues (muscles, heart, &c.), but has apparently less definiteness of arrangement into layers and somites than is usually the case. The original invagination forms the mesenteron, and the lining endoderm cells absorb the yolk The anterior and posterior portions of the alimentary tract are formed as usual by subsequent independent invaginations. Much less proportionally is known of the organogeny than of the very interesting and suggestive larval forms, for which see Crustacea.
Mollusca.—The typical Molluscan segmentation is markedly unequal, the disproportion between ectoderm and endoderm cells varying according to the proportion of food-yolk. The gastrula stage is more frequently reached by the growth of the ectoderm cells over the larger and fewer endoderm cells than by any actual invagination. The blastopore may close apparently towards either the oral or the anal extremity, forming mouth or anus or neither. In Cephalopoda the segmentation is confined to a germinal disk of formative material as in partially segmenting Vertebrate ova, though there are besides cells from the yolk which underlie the germinal region of the blastoderm and also accompany it in.its growth round the yolk, forming the inner blastodermic layer or yolk membrane. The mesoderm appears at the lips of the blastopore, or in an equivalent position; it forms a complete layer between ectoderm and endoderm, and within it the body cavity is formed usually by a definite splitting into two layers. The invaginated endoderm forms the mesenteron ; and the history of the formation of the anterior and posterior portions of the tract varies with the fate of the blastopore. In the Cephalopoda at least, the nervous system appears not as usual from the ectoderm but from the mesoderm. The characteristic larval organs, the shell gland and the foot, are ectodermic in origin—the former arising as a thickened invagination on the posterior and dorsal side of the embryo, and the latter as a ventral protuberance. Further details and larval changes are thoroughly treated under Mollusca.
Tunicata.—The complete and generally quite equal segmentation results in the formation of a blastosphere with a large segmentation cavity. The cavity is obliterated by a normal invagination, and a typical gastrula is formed. In the formation of the nerve cord from the closure of a medullary groove and of the notochord from a cord of cells on the dorsal wall of the archenteron, in the appearance of respiratory slits in the anterior portion of the enteric cavity and of a cerebral eye, and in fact in all the essential features of their development they present the amplest evidence of their Vertebrate affinities and degenerate origin (see Tunicata).
Vcrtcbrata.—The segmentation is total and equal in Amphioxus, total and not markedly unequal in Mammalia, total and unequal in Amphibia, Acipenser, Pctromyzon, partial in Birds and Reptiles, Teleosteaus and Elasmobranchs, but the limits between these types are not sharply defined, being mainly determined by the store of food-yolk. In Amphioxus there is no interference with the formation of the typical gastrula, and this form is also readily recognizable in the Amphibia, Acipenser, and Pctromyzon, where, however, the process of formation is less simple. At a point corresponding to the future hiud end of the embryo a true invagination takes place, forming, however, only the dorsal wall of the archenteron, at the same time the ectoderm cells have been growing round the yolk, and the floor of the enteric cavity is formed from yolk-cells. The blastopore is eventually closed, but a communication between the archenteron and the neural canal persists for some time as the neurenteric canal. In the Elasmobranchs and Teleosteans, though there is no true invagination nor recognizable gastrula form, there are not wanting hints of its ancestral occurrence and of homologies with the typical form. The comparison of the different Ichthyop-sidau gastrula; with the typical form and with that of the Saurop-sida, and such problems as the occurrence of an epibolic gastrula in Mammalia are still under discussion. The most important stages in the further Vertebrate development, the formation of the medullary groove and canal, the appearance of the notochord as an axial differentiation of hypoblast, the origin of the body-cavity from paired outgrowths from the archenteron, the occurrence of gill-pouches opening externally from the throat, the expansion of the medullary cord anteriorly to form the vesicles of the brain, the outpushing of a cerebral eye, and so on, are described in all text-books. (II)
2. But it is not enougli empirically to record the observed phenomena of reproduction in the various groups, primarily essential though such labours are; it is further necessary to generalize them. We should ascertain, that is to say, from a comprehensive and a comparative survey, what degree of unity of structure is discovered actually to prevail within and among the various groups. Were this knowledge once definitely reached and incorporated with the results of comparative anatomy and palaeontology, that complete conspectus of the animal kingdom which is the goal to which all morphological inquiries converge would come clearly into view. Such an exposition of the contributions of the study of development to morphological knowledge may evidently proceed in either of two ways,—either by starting from the later and more superficial similarities which are expressed in the classification of the different groups, and working downwards towards earlier and deeper unities in the various organs and tissues; or by starting from the most primitive homology, and working upwards, so demonstrating the unities which are observed to obtain in the successive stages, from segmentation and layer differentiation onwards. For our present purpose, it is more convenient to follow the latter course, and to note the main concrete generalizations of development in ascending order from the deepest and most general to the more superficial and specific.
1. Ovum Theory.—The most fundamental unity upon which all the others really depend is the familiar fact that all organisms, plant and animal alike, develop from a single germinal cell or ovum essentially comparable with any ordinary cell. The importance of these results may be best expressed by a quotation from Agassiz’s once famous Essay on Classification:—Von Baer “thus showed for the first time that there is no essential difference in the mode of reproduction of the so-called viviparous and oviparous animals, and that Man himself developed in the same manner as animals. It was indeed a gigantic step to demonstrate such an identity in the material basis of the development of all animals, when their anatomical structure was already known to exhibit such radically different forms. The universal presence of eggs in all animals, and the unity of their structure, which was soon afterwards fully ascertained, constitute in my opinion the greatest discovery in the natural science of modern times.” The ovum has long ceased to be regarded as a mysterious microorganism, and, while in some cases a number of cells unite to nourish and perfect it, the generalization remains unshaken, that the ovum of every organism is a simple cell. The minute structure of the ovum, its differentiations and variations, its fertilization and development, must be expressible in terms of the morphology
and physiology of the ordinary cell. The elucidation will be obviously mutual, for the analysis of the phenomena observed in the case of the highly differentiated reproductive cells, with their consequent greater physiological simplicity, will shed light on analogous phenomena in ordinary cellular and Protistau life where, with less differentiation, there is greater physiological complexity,— while such problems as the origin and import of polar globule extrusion, fertilization, &c., receive some elucidation from suggestive analogies among the Protozoa. See Sex. (11)
2.    Segmentation.—The segmentation of the ovum of the Metazoa varies in regularity and completeness throughout the groups, but the different types are not sharply defined from one another and are, as has been already noted, partially at least explicable as mechanically conditioned by the quantity of nutritive as opposed to formative material. Segmentation being only a special case of ordinary cell-multiplication (to which in behaviour of nuclei, &c., it fully corresponds), it awaits whatever elucidation may arise out of the present conflict of speculation as to the physical and physiological causes of division in general. It has further to be compared on the one hand with such cases of multiple division as are observed in spermatogenesis, and on the other hand, and more especially, with the earliest attempts to form cell aggregates and so effect the passage from Protozoa to Metazoa. (11)
3.    Gastrsea Theory.—We have seen in the development of the various groups how the result of segmentation is not a mere aggregate of cells but an integrated two-layered individual with a distinct enteric cavity. In 1872 Haeckel emphasized the importance of this form, and in 1875 he elaborated his “gastraea” theory, according to which all animals pass through a gastrula stage which, in its typical form, resembles the ancestral Mctazoon. He showed how the variously modified quasi-gastrula forms of the higher groups might be derived from the normal type, and corroborated his theory by reference to the persistence of the gastrula stage in certain Porifera, as well as in those Ccelentera and Vermes where the adult animal is not far above the level of the gastrula organization. The occurrence of the planula and the delamination process in some cases alongside of the invaginate gastrula is a difficulty in the way of his theory so far as it defines the primitive Metazoan ancestor, and this has given rise to Lankester’s rival planula theory. The case on either side is fairly stated in Balfour’s Embryology (vol. ii. chap. xiii.). (Recent researches on Hydrozoa seem to show that delamination is an extreme form of immigration, which is itself a modified invagination.) The passage from Protozoa to Metazoa was, according to Biitschli, effected neither by planulan nor gastrula but by a disk-like “placula.” The ingenious “coelom theory” of the Hertwigs is an attempt to divide all the Metazoa with three germinal layers into two distinct groups characterized by different modes of formation of body-cavity and mesoderm, and by other minor differences. In the Enterocoda, which include the Chxtopoda, Gephyrea, Brachiopoda, Nematoda, Arthropoda,Echinodermala, Enteropneusta, and Chordata, the body-cavity is formed in the fashion noted in the case of Sagitta by two ingrowths from the archenteron, the bulk of the mesoderm arising from the differentiation of the epithelium of these diverticula, though sometimes partially also from amoeboid cells budded off into the gelatinous tissue between ectoderm and endoderm. In the smaller group of Pseudocoela, including the Mollusca, Polyzoa, Botifera, and Platyhelminthes, the mesoderm originates in the second of these ways, and the body-cavity is formed by a split in this “mesenchyme.” This theory has been criticized by Balfour (Embr., ii. 13), and more recently ably defended by Haeckel and others ; further detailed studies are at least needed before it can claim full confirmation. (15)
4.    Unity of Tissues and Homology of Layers.—Since it is impossible that all the cells resulting from segmentation can continue to occupy the same position, a certain lamination or layer formation with consequent division of labour and structural modification invariably occurs, finding its first expression in the two-layered gastrula stage to which we have referred. Just as in the embryo of the higher plants there arise an outer dermatogen, an inner plerome, and a middle layer or periblem, so in the animal embryo there constantly occur three germ layers, the ectoderm, the endoderm, and the intermediate layer formed from them—the mesoderm. As early as 1768 Wolff seems to have had a definite presentiment of the formation of the different systems from distinct germ layers ; in 1817 Pander distinguished in the embryo chick the outer or “serous” from the inner or “mucous” layer, and Yon Baer in 1828 yet more definitely distinguished them as animal and vegetative respectively. A great step towards the recognition of the full significance of these germ layers was due to the brilliant insight of Huxley (1859) in comparing them to the ectoderm and endoderm which he had demonstrated in Ccelentera. The researches of Remak, Rathke, Kowalevsky, and others led to their general recognition throughout the Metazoa. Modern progress is marked by the demonstration of the general homology of all the three germ layers and consequently of the systems of organs which arise from them. While much uncertainty still obtains as to the
origin of the mesoderm, and while the different layers undoubtedly exhibit in some cases the possibility of differentiation into tissues different from those to which they usually give origin, yet the general homology of the layers is now indisputable. The ectoderm, which is indeed the primitive sensory and protective organ, forms the epidermis, sense organs, and nervous system of the adult; the nutritive endoderm lines the enteric cavity, &c.; and from the mesoderm are derived the muscular, vascular, and lymphatic systems and the greater part of the connective tissue, as also the excretory and generally also the generative system. Not only then is the occurrence of these three layers constant, but, with few exceptions, so is the differentiation of each into definite systems of organs. This correspondence, which is of high—in most cases of final—importance in determining homologies, may be termed homodermic. See Morphology. (15)
5.    Unity of Anatomical Structure.—The study of development leads, however, to the recognition of a more detailed and specific unity than the general one of homodermy. For, just as the development of the flower reveals the original resemblance of organs which become subsequently widely differentiated, so organs which in their adult modification seem hardly comparable are seen to be moulded from one pattern when compared in their embryonic simplicity. The same holds good obviously of the comparison of organs in different animals ; organogeny is the necessary foundation of comparative anatomy. Thus of late years it has been demonstrated that the nervous system and sense organs, throughout at any rate the vast majority of Metazoan forms, not only constantly arise from the ectoderm—that is to say, are homodermic—but their development exhibits correspondences even in detail. Recent studies of the development of the Vertebrate skeleton, and more especially of the skull, afford vivid instances of that fundamental unity of structure of which, in another department, the final unravelment of the complex problem of the structure of the urinogenital organs of Vertebrates through the researches of Balfour and Semper is one of the most recent and admirable instances. (11)
6.    Unity of Type.—It has been the general history of classification both of plants and animals that arrangements based on superficial resemblance were superseded by those founded on internal organization, while the latter have been in turn either corroborated or amended by the relationships revealed by the study of development, as from the preceding generalizations must indeed be obvious. Just as the separation of the Monocotyledons and Dicotyledons into two great alliances was anatomically recognized by Ray, and em-bryologically corroborated by De Jussieu, so the developmental studies of Von Baer led him independently to the establishment of the four great types which had been previously distinguished by the anatomical labours of Cuvier. And, apart from the recognition of the morphological unities of the greater groups, it is familiarly known how in the case of problematical forms, such, for instance, as Cirripedes or Ascidians, where the adult organization is obscured by degeneration, the detection of the true relationship is due to embryology. In proportion, too, as the recapitulation during development of adult structure becomes shortened and effaced, so does the determination of their real affinities become difficult; hence the relatively slow progress of the botanist towards a knowledge of the deeper affinities of his “natural orders.” (11)
As the preceding outline of embryological detail is being rapidly filled up, and the resultant concrete generalizations are being more and more clearly defined, and also united with those of comparative anatomy and palaeontology, the embryologist is rapidly approximating that tolerably adequate knowledge of the morphological relations of plants and animals alike which finds its graphic expression in the “ family tree ” of the Organisata. While, for instance, the discrepant speculations of Semper, Hubrecht, Sedgwick, and others, as to the ancestral form of the Chordata, afford illustration of how far we are from being able to construct a thoroughly definite genealogical tree, on the other hand no better evidence alike of the rapid stages by which our knowledge has advanced and of the utility of such a method of graphic notation can be obtained than by comparing the necessarily vague and hypothetical tree sketched by Haeckel only twenty years ago with any of its numerous and shortlived successors. (16)
3. The result of the study of development is not, however, merely to establish the existence of such concrete structural unities as those just indicated, but leads further to the recognition of certain abstract generalizations, expressive of the most comprehensive conclusions which can
be drawn from the observed succession of developmental phenomena.
(a)    Heredity.—It is an every-day observation that the offspring of any organism repeats the organization of the parent; and the very familiarity of the fact is apt to conceal the marvellousness of the process in which every egg cell develops, either directly or indirectly, into a form which not only resembles the parent in general and specific characters, but may even repeat those individual characteristics which arose by so-called spontaneous variation, or which were even impressed upon the parent by the direct influence of the external environment. The difficulty of analysing the factors which give rise to this result,—that is, of understanding how the history of the developing ovum is determined by its constitution—the uncertainty as to the degree in which acquired parental characteristics can be said to be transmitted, the absence in fact of any established causal explanation of the resemblance between offspring and parent, in specific and individual characters, does not of course affect the fact. Although, in analysing the popular generalization that “like begets like,” it may eventually be shown how much of that likeness may be due to the hammering of the same environmental forces which formerly played upon the parent, a mysterious transmission of properties has still to be accounted for, and interpreted in terms of the physiological and morphological, the chemical and physical, composition and properties of the germinal matter of parent and offspring. To explain this mystery, various “ theories of heredity” have been from time to time propounded; from the present purely morphological point of view it suffices here, however, to note the fact of heredity, leaving the discussion of its rationale to its more natural place at the outset of the article Variation and Selection. (6)
(b)    Von Baer’s Law.—In comparing the degree of organization attained by different forms, we are accustomed to distinguish the general morphological ground-plan constant throughout the group from the detailed histological differentiation or elaboration of the various organs. Great histological simplicity may co-exist with a high general morphological plan, and vice versa. A survey of the animal and vegetable kingdom reveals a branching and ascending series of increasingly complex ground-plans, while, in any of the groups determined by these, similar branching series more and more highly differentiated in detail are to be distinguished. Von Baer (1828) was the first to discern the embryological aspect of this law of progress, and to show that, in the development alike of the organism and of its component parts, there was a progress from the simple to the complex, from the general to the special. Thus, in the development of one of the higher Mammalia, those characters which are common to the lowest Vertebrates are at first alone distinguishable. Thence the embryo passes through stages resembling those of successively higher forms, till the general Matnmalian type is reached, this again passing through higher and less general stages till the specific characters finally make their appearance; and this progressive differentiation from general to special holds equally of the histological differentiation of the organs. Von Baer guarded against the error involved in many popular versions of his generalization, by maintaining that the developing embryo resembled, not the adults, but merely the embryos of lower forms; and, although he narrowed his proposition to the limits of the great groups, denying, for example, any resemblance between Vertebrate embryos and those of any Invertebrate type, this must be admitted a thoroughly legitimate reserve when we consider the actual state and practical possibilities of embryological research at the time. The real value and import of Von Baer’s law, however, could
not be appreciated until the parallel between this developmental progress and the advance of anatomical type which had been exposed by Cuvier received its rational explanation at the hands of Darwin. (17)
(c) Haeckel’s “Biogenetic Law.”—While Von Baer was the first to appreciate the value of embryology in its relation to classification and comparative anatomy, we are indebted to Haeckel for the detailed application of the Darwinian theory to the phenomena of embryology and the consequent restatement of Von Baer’s law in its developed form. In his Generelle Morphologie (18G6) he formulates the “fundamental law of development״ (biogenetisches Grund-gesetz). Introducing the term “ontogeny” to denote the development of the individual organism, and “phylogeny ” to express the historic evolution of the “ phylon” or tribe, he affirms that “ ontogeny is an epitome of phylogeny,” or, more explicitly, “ the organism recapitulates in the short and rapid course of its individual development the most important of those form-modifications undergone by the successive ancestors of the species, in the course of their long and slow historic evolution, and the causal relation of the two histories is to be explained in terms of heredity and adaptation. When these are thoroughly analysed, it will be possible to say that the phylogeny is the mechanical cause of the ontogeny.”
Much as Von Baer had distinguished the general morphological ground-plan from the more detailed differentiations of the organs, Haeckel analysed ontogeny into (a) the “ palingenotic ” process, in which the truly ancestral characters conserved by heredity are reproduced in development, and (b) the “ kenogenetic ” process, or modified evolution, to which are due those non-primitive characters which have resulted in consequence of a secondary adaptation of the embryo to the peculiar conditions of its own environment. The true recapitulation is constantly liable to be disguised, not only by the frequent occurrence of that abbreviated and more direct ontogeny which the need for ־ economy tends alike to originate and to conserve, but by the action of these kenogenetic processes. Hence the corollary that “the ontogenetic recapitulation of the phylogeny is the more perfect the more the palingenetic process is conserved by heredity, and the more imperfect in proportion as the later modified evolution (kenogenesis) is introduced by adaptation.”
While this distinction between adaptive characters and underlying morphological type is not only legitimate but indispensable, it must not, however, be forgotten that the difference between these is nowhere absolute,—the deepest morphological characters being but the most ancient results of adaptation (cf. Morphology, vol. xvi. p. 845). Yet it is only by the careful application of this principle that the embryologist can unravel the perplexing entanglement of primitive and adaptive characters presented by so many larval forms, or solve the scarcely less difficult problems of organogeny. In this regard Balfour’s dissertation on the origin and affinities of larval forms is especially valuable, while a vivid illustration of the employment of the biogenetic law, in one of the most difficult departments of ontogeny, may be borrowed from Prof. Parker, lieviewing the development of the skull in the Chick, lie says—
“ Whilst at work I seemed to myself to have been endeavouring to decipher a fralimpsest, and that not erased and written upon again just once, but live or six times over.
“ Having erased, as it were, the characters of the culminating type—those of the gaudy Indian Bird—I seemed to be amongst the sombre Grouse, and then, towards incubation, the characters of the Sand-Grouse and Hemipod stood out before me. Rubbing these away, in my downward walk, the form of the Tiuarnou looked me in the face ; then the aberrant Ostrich seemed to be described in large archaic characters; a little while and these faded into what could just be read off as pertaining to the Sea Turtle ;
whilst, underlying the whole, the Fish in its simplest Myxinoid form could be traced in morphological hieroglyphics.” (17)
(d) Spencer on Development.— The most generalized treatment of embryology is that of Spencer, who, after carefully distinguishing mere growth in bulk from development of structure, points out that development takes place primarily around a central point, as in the lowest and chiefly unicellular organisms. Central development is either unicentral or multicentral, while, according as the insubordination to a single centre, implied in the latter case, is more or less thorough, the organism is of irregular form (e.g., many Algue), and so may readily even become discontinuous. From central we pass insensibly to axial development, and this may be uniaxial or multiaxial. Here, too, development may be continuous or discontinuous, familiar instances of both being furnished by many animals and plants. The fundamental importance of these simple conceptions to the adequate treatment alike of the problems of individuality (cf. Morphology) and of the nature of the reproductive process is justly to be insisted upon, for the definition of reproduction as but a discontinuous growth and development finds here its origin and justification.
Spencer, moreover, expresses Yon Baer’s essential law in yet more general phrase :—“Development is a change from an incoherent indefinite homogeneity to a coherent definite heterogeneity.” The relation of ontogeny to phylogeny is not overlooked, and a yet farther parallel advance in differentiation of the organism from its environment is illustrated alike in structure and form, in chemical composition and specific gravity, in temperature and self-mobility. The deductive interpretation of these laws is also cautiously suggested. (17)
Bibliography.—Without any attempt to deal with the very copious literature of the subject, it is sufficient to name some of the more important general and special works, from which full details can in turn be obtained. From the time of Haller perhaps no eminent anatomist or physiologist has omitted a more or less general treatment of the subject, and such discussions as those to be found in the well-known works of Johannes Müller, Milne-Edwards, Owen, or Carpenter are still valuable, especially as embodying the past development of the subject. More recent discussions are to be found in the leading text-books, alike morphological (Huxley, Gegenbauer, Claus) and physiological (Hermann, Foster, Landois, &c.). The embryological movement can be followed by the aid of the article Embryology, and the valuable systematic treatise of Balfour, while the most generalized treatment of the subject must at first be sought in the works of Spencer and Haeckel. For almost all purposes, howr ever, the recent careful monograph of Hensen (Physiologie d. Zeugung, forming the second part of vol. vi. of Hermann’s Handbuch d. Physiologic, Leipsic, 1881), although, of course, by no means completely satisfactory, will be found not merely serviceable but indispensable to the student. The various Jahresberichte must be also, of course, constantly appealed to, especially for progress in detail. The present state of the theory of reproduction is discussed in Hensen, op. cit.
(1) cf. Hensen, op. cit., general manuals, and gynecological works, e.g., Williams, “On the Structure of the Mucous Membrane of the Uterus," Obstetr. Journ., 1875; Barnes, System of Midwifery, 1885; Lusk, Sei. and Art. of Midwifery, 1882. (2) Huxley, .׳tnai. of Invert. Animals, 1879; Gegenbaur, Comp. Anat., London, 1882; Wiederslieim, Le/irb. d. Comp. Anal. d. Wirbelthiere, Jena, 1883; Semper, D. Vrinogenital Syst. d. Plagiostomen, in his Arbeiten. vol. ii.; Balfour, Comp. Embryology, 1882.    (3) Hensen, op. cit.; Foster’s and
Landois’s manuals of physiology. (4) Werth, “ Physiologie d. Geburt," in chap, xiii. of Hensen, op. cit.; Spiegelberg, Lehrb. d. Geburtshülfe, Lahr, 1878.    (5)
Milne-Edwards, Logons s. la Physiologie, and later manuals. (6) Hensen, op. cit. (7) Gamgee, Physiol. Chem. of Anim. Body, 1880, and Hensen, op. cit. (8) V. La Valette, “ Ueb. d. Genese d. Samenkörper," Archiv f. Mikr. Anat., xv.; Blom-fiel·!, Quart. Journ. Micro. Sei., 1880; Renson, Arch. d. Biol., 1882; Swaen and Masquelin, Arch. d. Biol., 1883 ; Geddcs and Arthur Thomson, “ On the History and Theory of Spermatogenesis,” Proc. Boy. Soc. Edit!., 1885-8G.    (9) See
Embryology, and article “Ovum” (by Allen Thomson), in Todd’s Cyclop, of Anat. and Physiol. (10) Gamgee, op. cit.; Hensen, op. cit. (11) Balfour, op. cit., and manuals. (12) Balfour, op. cit.; Flemming, Zellsubstanz, &c., Leipsic, 1882 ; Strasburger, Zellbildung, &e., Leipsic, 1882, and Neue Untersuch., <tc., 1884; Carnoy, Biologie Cellulaire, Louvain, 1885; Brass, Beitr. z. Zellphysiologie, Leipsic, 1885; Hertwig, Jena. Zeitschr., xviii., Heft 2,1885. (13) Balfour, op. cit.; V. Beneden, Arch. d. Bio!., 1883 (also summaries in Q. J. M. S., and Biol. Central-Blatt for 1885, by Cunningham and Flemming respectively); Sabatier, Contrib. ä V etude d. globules polaires, Montpellier, 1884. (14) Woiks above cited amt Hertwig, Jena. Zeitschr., 1885. (15) Balfour, op. cit.; Haeckel, “ Ursprung u. Ent-wick. d. thier. Gewebe," Jena.Zeitschr., xviii., 1885. (16) Haeckel, Gen. Morphol., 1866; Ilerdman, Phylogeny of A nimal Kingdom, Liverpool, 1885. (17) Spencer, Princ. of Biol., 1880; Haeckel, Gen. Morphol., I860; Parker, Morphology of the . Skull, 1877.    (P. GE.)
IL Reproduction of Plants.
The various modes by which plants are reproduced may be conveniently classified in two groups, namely, vegetative multiplication and true reproduction, the distinction between them being this, that, whereas in the former the production of the new individual may be effected by organs of the most various kinds, in the latter it is always effected by means of a specialized reproductive cell. This distinction will become apparent in the following discussion.
Vegetative Multiplication.—The simplest case of vegetative multiplication is afforded by unicellular plants. When the cell which constitutes the body of the plant has attained its limit of size, it gives rise to two, either by division or gemmation ; the two cells then grow, and at the same time become separated from each other, so that eventually two new distinct individuals are produced, each of which precisely resembles the original organism. A good example of this is to be found in the gemmation of the Yeast plant. This mode of multiplication is simply the result of the ordinary processes of growth. All plant-cells thus grow and divide at some time of their life; but, whereas in a multicellular plant the products of division remain coherent, and add to the number of the cells of which the plant consists, in a unicellular plant they separate and constitute new individuals. In more highly organized plants vegetative multiplication may be effected by the separation of the different parts of the body from each other, each such part subsequently developing the missing members and thus constituting a new individual. This takes place spontaneously, and in a marked manner in Mosses. The main stem gradually dies away from behind forwards ; the lateral branches thus become isolated, and constitute new individuals.
The remarkable regenerative capacity of plant-members is largely made use of for the artificial propagation of plants. A branch removed from a parent-plant will, under appropriate conditions, develop roots, and so constitute a new plant ; this is the theory of propagation by “cuttings.” A portion of a root will similarly develop one or more shoots, and thus give rise to a new plant. An isolated leaf will, in many cases, produce a shoot and a root, in a word, a new plant ; it is in this way that Begonias, for instance, are propagated. The production of new plants from the leaves occurs also in nature, as, for instance, in the so-called “ viviparous ” plants, of which Bryophyllum calycinum (Crassulaceæ) and many Ferns (JVeplirodium \Lastræa\ Filix-mas, Asplénium \Athyrium] Filix-fœmina, and other species of Asplénium) are examples. An interesting case of the vegetative development of new individuals from other plant-organs is afforded by Strasburger’s observations on Cœlebogyne ilicifolia, Funkia¡ Nothoscordum fragrans, and Citrus ; he found, namely, that in these plants, an adventitious formation of r embryos takes place by budding from the tissue of the nucellus bounding the embryo-sac. But it is in the Mosses, of all plants, that the capacity for vegetative propagation is most widely diffused. Any part of a moss, whether it be the stem, the leaves, the rliizoids, or the sporogonium, is capable, under appropriate conditions, of giving rise to filamentous protonema on wdiich new moss-plants are then developed as lateral buds.
In a large number of plants we find that provision is made for vegetative multiplication by the development of f more or less highly specialized organs. In Lichens, for instance, there are the soredia, wdiich are minute buds of the thallus containing both algal and fungal elements ; these are set free on the surface in large numbers, and each grows into a thallus. In the Characeæ there are the
bulbils or “ starch-stars ״ of Chara stelligera, which are underground nodes, and the branches with naked base and the pro-embryonic branches found by Pringsheim on old nodes of Chara fragilis. In the Mosses small tuberous bulbils frequently occur on the rhizoids, and in many instances (Bryum annotinum, Aulacomnion androgynum, Tetraphis pellucida, <kc.) stalked fusiform or lenticular multicellular bodies containing· chlorophyll, termed gemmae, are produced on the shoots, either in the axils of the leaves or in special receptacles at the summit of the stem. Gemmae of this kind are produced in vast numbers in Marchantia and Lunularia among the Liverworts. Similar gemmae are also produced by the prothallia of Ferns. In some Ferns (e.g., Nephrolepis tuberosa and N. undulata) the buds borne on the leaves or in their axils become swollen and filled with nutritive materials, constituting bulbils which fall off and give rise to new plants. This conversion of buds into bulbils which subserve vegetative multiplication occurs also occasionally among Phanerogams, as, for instance, in Lilium bulbiferum. But many other adaptations of the same kind occur among Phanerogams, notably among annuals. Bulbous plants, for instance, produce each year at least one bulb or corm from which a new plant is produced in the succeeding year. In other cases, as in the case of the Potato, tubers are developed from subterranean shoots, each of which in the following year gives rise to a new individual. In other cases, again, as in Dahlia, Thladiantha dubia, &c., tuberous swellings are found on the roots, from each of which a new individual may spring.
True Reproduction.—It was mentioned above that the true reproduction of plants is effected by specialized cells; these cells may be generally designated spores. The structure of a spore is essentially this : it consists of a nucleated mass of protoplasm, enclosing starch or oil as reserve nutritive material, usually enclosed by a cell-wall. In those cases in which the spore is capable of germinating immediately on its development the cell-wall is a single delicate membrane consisting of cellulose; but in those cases in which the spore may or must pass through a period of quiescence before germination the wall becomes thickened and may consist of two layers, an inner, the endospore, wdiich is delicate and consists of cellulose, and an outer, the exospore, which is thick and rigid, frequently darkly coloured and beset externally with spines or bosses, and which consists of cutin. In some few־׳ cases among the Fungi multicellular spores are produced; these approximate somewhat to the gemmae mentioned above as highly specialized organs for vegetative multiplication. In some cases, particularly among the Algae and also in some Fungi (Peronosporese, Saprolegnieoe, Myxomycetes, Cliytridiaceoe), spores are produced wdiich are for a time destitute of any cell-wT all, and are further peculiar in that they are motile, and are therefore termed zoospores; they move, sometimes in an amoeboid manner by the protrusion of pseudopodia, but more frequently they are provided with one, two, or many, delicate vibratile protoplasmic filaments, termed cilia, by the lashing of wdiich the spore is propelled through the water. The zoospore eventually comes to rest, withdraws its cilia, surrounds itself wdth a cell-wall, and then germinates.
Spores are developed in various w־ays, and a prefix is in many cases added to the wr ord “ spore ” to indicate the nature of the process of development. Leaving details for subsequent discussion, we will now confine our attention to the main fact that all spores are developed in one or other of two ways, either asexually or sexually. In the former case a single reproductive organ gives rise to cells wdiich are capable, each by itself, of developing into a newr  organism ; such an organ is an asexual reproductive organ,
and such cells are asexually produced spores. In the latter case the reproductive organs are such that they do not singly give rise to cells capable, each by itself, of developing into a new organism. These are sexual reproductive organs. In some instances the sexual organ does not give rise to reproductive cells at all until it has received into itself more or less of the protoplasmic contents of another different, at least physiologically, sexual organ; and the cells which it then produces are capable, each by itself, of developing into a new organism. In others the sexual organ produces reproductive cells without any such previous fusion of protoplasm, but the cells thus produced are incapable, each by itself, of developing into a new organism. Such cells are sexual reproductive cells. It is only by the fusion of two such cells, physiologically different, that a reproductive cell is formed which is capable of developing into a new organism. The fusion either of the protoplasmic contents of two different sexual organs or of two different sexual cells constitutes the sexual process. It may take place, according to circumstances, either within the organs or, in those cases in which sexual cells are produced and are set free, externally to them. The resulting cells are sexually produced spores.
In some exceptional cases the normal production, sexual or asexual, of spores does not take place, but the new organism is developed vegetatively from the parent. When the sexual y production of spores is suppressed, the case is one of apogamy ;
when the asexual production of spores is suppressed, the case is one r. of apospory. The following are instances of apogamy : in certain Ferns (Ptcris cretica, Aspidium falcatum) the prothallium produces no sexual organs, but the fern-plant rises vegetatively as a bud upon it. Apospory lias been observed to occur in Mosses and in some Ferns (Athyrium Filix-foemina, Polystichum angulare): in Mosses a new plant may be developed vegetatively from the tissue of the sporogonium ; in Athyrium the sporangium, instead of producing spores, develops into a fern-prothallium. In the Characeae apospory appears to be the rule. Apogamy and apospory will be more fully discussed subsequently in connexion with the subject of alternation of generations.
Asexual Reproduction.—Reproduction by means of asexually produced spores is common to nearly all families of plants. It is wanting, among the Algae, in the Conjugatae, the Fucaceae, and the Characeae; among the Fungi, in a few Peronsporeae (Pythiurn vexans, Arto-trogus), in Ancylistes Closterii, in Aplanes Braunii, among the Saprolegnieae; and, among the Ascomycetes, in Ere-mascus, Sordaria (Hypocopra), Ascobolus furfuraceus, Pyronema (Peziza) conjluens, Gynmoascus, the Collemaceae, and most other Lichen-Fungi.
In the simplest case the spore is developed from a single cell of the plant, which surrounds itself with the characteristic thick wall. This occurs only in plants of low organization; Nostoc and Bacillus are examples of it.
In other cases the contents of the cell undergo division, each portion of the protoplasm constituting a spore. Examples of this are afforded, among unicellular plants, by Yeast and Protococcus, and in multicellular plants by the Confervaceae, the Ulvaceae, and some Florideae.
In this case each cell, the protoplasm of which divides to form spores, may be regarded as a rudimentary reproductive organ of the nature of a sporangium. In more highly organized plants special organs are differentiated for the production of spores. In the majority of cases the special organ is a sporangium, that is, a hollow capsule iu the interior of which the spores are developed. In the Thallophytes the sporangium is a single cell. In the Muscineai it is a multicellular capsule; in Riccia, in which the structure of the capsule is simple, the whole of the internal cells give rise by division to spores; in other Liverworts, and in the Mosses, in which the structure of the capsule becomes progressively more and more complex, a portion only of the internal cells give rise to spores. In
the Ferns, Equisetacem, and Lycopodiacese the sporangium is multicellular, but simple in structure. This is true also in the llhizocarpaj and in the Ligulatee (Selaginella, Isoetes), but in these plants there is this peculiarity that there are sporangia of two kinds,—some, namely, which produce one, or a few, large spores, macrospores, and are hence termed macrosporangia, and others which give rise to a large number of small spores, microspores, and are hence termed microsporangia. The Phanerogams also bear two kinds of sporangia, which have received special names :— the macrosporangium, which produces only one mature spore, is termed the ovule; the microsporangium, which produces a large number of microspores, is termed the pollen-sac. In some cases among the Fungi the spores are : not produced in the interior of a sporangium, but are1  formed by abstraction. This occurs in some Mucorini, 1  such as Chaetocladium, in the Ustilagineae, the Entomoph-' thorem, the Peronosporem, the Ascomycetes, the Rusts (Uredine<e), and the Basidiomycetes.
These asexually produced reproductive cells are com monly spoken of simply as spores, but in many cases some addition has been made to the word, or an altogether different name is applied to them, in order to mark some peculiarity in their mode of origin, to indicate their order of development, or to assign them without periphrasis to a particular group of plants. Thus, as has been mentioned, zoospores are motile spores unprovided, for a time at least, with a cell-wall; stylospores are spores which are developed, not in sporangia, but by abstriction as mentioned above; tetraspores is the name given to the spores of the Floride® to denote the fact that four spores are produced by the division of the mother-cell. The uredospores of the Uredinese are those which are produced during the summer, whereas the teleutospores of these plants are those which are formed in the autumn, at the end of the period of growth. It was the custom, at one time, to speak of the spores of Fungi as conidia; and at the present time the macrospores and the microspores of Phanerogams are better known as embryo-sacs and pollen-grains l’espectively.
The organs which give rise to the asexually produced spores are usually not confined to a particular part of the plant in the Thallophytes. Instances of this do, however, occur among the Ascomycetous Fungi—namely, in the Pyrenomycetes. Here the production of the stylospores takes place in definite receptacles known as pycnidia. In the vascular plants (Pteridophyta, Phanerogams), the development of sporangia, speaking generally, is confined to the leaves. In many of the Pteridophyta the sporan-giferous leaves do not differ in appearance from the foliage-leaves; but in other cases they undergo considerable modification, as in the Equisetacem, Marsiliacese, some species of Lycopodium and Selaginella, and notably in the Phanerogams. In the Phanerogams the modification is so great that the sporangiferous leaves have received special names; those which bear the microsporangia (pollen-sacs) are termed the stamens, and those which bear the macrosporangia (ovules) are termed the carpels. When the sporangiferous leaves are thus modified they are usually aggregated together, and such an aggregate of sporangiferous leaves constitutes a flower.
Sexual Reproduction.—In nearly all classes of plants above the Protophyta spores are formed by a sexual process; and in those in which no such process can be detected its absence is due, not, as in the Protophyta, to the fact that sexuality has not yet been developed, but to its gradual disappearance. The phenomena of sexual reproduction will be most intelligibly stated by tracing them in the different main divisions of the Vegetable Kingdom—the Algae, the Fungi, the Arcliegoniata, and the Phanerogams.
The protophytic Algae are reproduced by asexually developed 3- spores, but iu some forms an indication is already given of the differentiation of these spores into sexual reproductive cells which takes place in the higher forms of the group. In Protococcus, for instance, zoospores are produced, but the zoospores are not all precisely similar. In some cases the protoplasm of the cell divides only once or twice, the result being the formation of two or four relatively large zoospores, macrozoospores·, in other cases the protoplasm divides a greater number of times so that a considerable number of relatively small zoospores, microzoospores, are produced. Functionally these zoospores are alike; they all come to rest, and form new Protococci. Amongst the Confervoidae, which are more highly organized plants than the protophytic Algai, we find forms, of which Ulothrix may be taken as the type, which likewise produce macrozoospores and microzoospores in their ־ cells. The macrozoospores of Ulothrix simply come to rest and germinate; they are distinctly asexual spores. The microzoospores may also do this, but not unfrequently they coalesce in pairs ; the product of fusion, the zygospore, as it is termed, then develops into a Ulothrix filament. This fusion of two similar reproductive cells— this conjugation, as it is termed—is one of the simplest forms of the sexual process ; the zygospore is then a sexually produced spore, and the two cells which conjugate to form it are spoken of as gametes,—planogametes when they possess cilia, aplanogamctes when they do not.
Comparing Ulothrix with Protococcus, we see that in both the macrozoospores are asexual reproductive cells, whereas the microzoospores of Ulothrix exhibit an imperfect sexuality, inasmuch as they may germinate without previous conjugation. The piano-gametes of Ulothrix are, however, to be directly connected with the microzoospores of Protococcus; that is to say, the gametes are to be traced back to asexual spores. This is a point of fundamental importance.
Similarly, in Botrydium, one of the Siphoneae, there are two kinds of zoospores, some of which are asexual and others sexual ; the visible difference between them is, in this case, not one of size, but the gametes have two cilia and the zoospores only one.
In the conjugation which takes place in the above-mentioned plants the gametes are quite similar in form and size, and take an equal part in the formation of the zygospore. The first indication of the differentiation of sexual gametes is afforded by Edo-f carpus siliculosus and Scytosiphon, belonging to the Phaeosporeae. The zoospores of these plants are produced in well-defined sporangia, some of which are multilocular and others unilocular. Inasmuch as only the zoospores developed in the multilocular sporangia have been observed to conjugate, that is, to be gametes, those developed in the unilocular sporangia are probably asexual. This being so, the multilocular sporangia are to be regarded, not as mere sporangia, but as sexual organs (Gametangia) producing sexual reproductive cells. The process of conjugation of the gametes is, according to Berthold, as follows :—the gametes are at first quite similar in every respect; some of them, however, soon withdraw their cilia and come to rest, whereas others remain actively motile; one of the still motile gametes then coalesces with one which has come to rest to form a zygospore. The gametes in this case behave differently in the process of conjugation : the one is passive, the other active ; the former is to be regarded as the female, and the latter as the male reproductive cell. But even in this case the gametes, if they fail to conjugate, can germinate independently.
In Cutleria the sexual differentiation of the reproductive cells is more marked ; the male and female cells are developed in distinct sporangia, which may be termed respectively antliericlia and oogonia, two male cells being formed in each antheriilium, and one female cell in each oogonium; the female cell is considerably larger than the male, but they are both planogametes, that is, conjugating cells which swim by means of cilia ; the female cell, however, soon withdraws its cilia and comes to rest, and then conjugation takes place, with the formation of a zygospore, much in the same way as in Ectocarpus described above.
The next stage in the sexual differentiation of the Algae is to be found in such forms as Yolvox, Yaucheria, (Edogonium, Fucus, and the Characeae. In these plants, as in Cutleria, the reproductive cells are entirely incapable of independent germination ; they have lost altogether that characteristic property of spores ; as in Cutleria also they are developed in two kinds of sporangia—antheridia and oogonia—and they are very different from each other in their form, size, and behaviour. In most cases the oogonium gives rise to a single relatively large cell, the oosphere, which is at no time provided with cilia, and is not set free from the oogonium ; in some of the Fucaceae, there may, however, be two (Pelvetia), four (Ozotliallia [Ascophyllum]), or eight (Fucus) oospheres produced in each oogonium, and in all the Fucaceae the oospheres are set free from the oogonium. The antheridium gives rise to a large number of small ciliated cells, the antherozoids, one of which subsequently fuses with the oosphere. The coalescence of two such highly differentiated sexual cells is termed fertilization, to distinguish it from the conjugation of similar sexual cells, and the product of fertilization is termed an oospore, to distinguish it from the product of conjugation, the zygospore. In these plants the antherozoids still retain the essential characters of planogametes, whereas the oospheres have lost them.
But it is not in all Algae that sexual reproduction is effected by the fusion of well-defined sexual cells. In the Florideae the sexual reproductive organs are well differentiated. The male organ is an antheridium which produces antherozoids ; but these antherozoids are peculiar in that they have no cilia, and are surrounded by a cell-wall; they are frequently, on this account, termed spermatia. The female organ is termed a procarpium or carpogonium ; it may consist of one or many cells, but in all cases it consists of a projecting filament, the trichogyne, and a more expanded basal portion. It is peculiar in that no well-defined oosphere exists within it. Fertilization is effected by the antherozoid (spermatium) being passively brought into contact with the trichogyne ; complete fusion then takes place, the contents of the spermatium passing into the trichogyne; the trichogyne now withers, and changes take place in the basal portion of the procarpium, one or more of the cells termed carpogenous cells divide, and by a process of budding give rise to a cluster of cells which are capable of germinating, and produce new plants; these are termed carpospores. At the same time the cluster of spores frequently becomes surrounded by an upgrowth of tissue ; the mature fructification is termed a cystocarp. From the female organ of the Florideae there are, then, formed, in consequence of fertilization, a number of reproductive cells, the carpospores, each of which corresponds to the oospore of plants like Fucus, Vaueheria, &c. A more detailed comparison with Fucus makes this correspondence at once apparent. In Fucus the contents of the female organ (oogonium), which is a single cell, divide into eight oospheres, which are subsequently fertilized ; in the Floridese there is, before fertilization, no differentiated oosphere, but the organ, as a whole, is fertilized by the spermatium, and it is in this case after, and not before, fertilization, as in the case oí Fucus, that a ]irocess of cell-formation takes place in the female organ ; hence the reproductive cells formed by the fertilized female organ of the Floridese are at once fertile, and correspond to the fertilized oospheres (oospores) of Fucus.
The peculiarities of the sexual reproduction of some of the Floridese are of sufficient general interest to be mentioned here.
In the Coralline», according to Solms-Laubach, the procarpia are produced several together in a conceptacle ; it is, however, only the central procarpia of the group which are capable of being fertilized, and the peripheral procarpia which produce carpospores. After the fertilization of the central procarpia, the carpogenous cells of the whole of the procarpia fuse together to form one large cell from the periphery of which the carpospores are produced by budding.
This physiological division of labour is more marked in Dud-resnaya, and a few other Florideae. In these plants some of the procarpia are destitute of a trichogyne, whereas others possess that organ. The spermatia fertilize those procarpia which possess a trichogyne, but these procarpia do not produce carpospores; but there grow out from them filaments which fertilize the procarpia destitute of a trichogyne, and these then give rise to carpospores.
The development of the carpospores in the Bangiaceae (Bangia, Porphyra) is peculiar. The carpogenous cell does not in this case, as in other Floridese, produce spores by budding, but its protoplasm divides into eight portions ; these are set free as naked masses of protoplasm, which move about for a time in an amoeboid manner and then come to rest and surroimd themselves with a cell-wall.
In some of the higher Algse, namely, in the Sphacelarieae and in the Laminariese, families belonging to the Phaeosporeae, no sexual process has been observed as yet; but, as our knowledge of the life-history of these plants is imperfect, it cannot be definitely stated at present that they are entirely asexual.
In the somewhat aberrant group of the Conjugatae the sexual process is peculiar. Iu the Desmidiese and the Mesocarpeae it is effected in this way, that two adjacent cells, belonging usually to different filaments, throw out corresponding lateral protuberances which meet, and, the intervening walls being absorbed, form a canal placing the cavities of the two cells in direct communication ; the protoplasm of each cell contracts, forming an aplanogamete, and travels into the canal, where the two masses meet and fuse. This is clearly a process of conjugation, similar to that of planogametes, and the product is likewise a single cell which is termed a zygospore. In the Zygnemeae, of which Spirogyra is a familiar example, the process is slightly different. Here the protoplasm of one of the two conjugating organs contracts first and passes over into the cavity of the other, there to fuse with its protoplasm.
Turning now to the Fungi, we find that in the simplest forms (Scliizomycetes, Saccharomycetes) there is no trace of sexual reproduction, whereas in the higher forms, with some exceptions, sexual reproductive organs are present, though they are in many cases functionless.
The lowest Fungi in which a sexual process has been observed are the Chytridiacese (Polyphagus EugUnm), the Mucorini, and the Entomophthorere. In these, when it occurs, it takes the form of conjugation, with the production of zygospores. Conjugation is here effected in essentially the same manner as that described above for the conjugation among the Alg;c, by the fusion of two similar sexual organs. Conjugation of planogametes has been observed by Sorokin in Tetrachytrium and in Haplocystis, probably belonging to the Chytridiacea?, a fact of some interest as it is the only case of this form of the sexual process known in the Fungi.
In Protomyces and the Ustilaginere a process takes place which appears to be of a sexual nature, resembling the conjugation of the Mucorini. Certain reproductive cells of an elongated form, termed sporidia, are produced, which become connected by a transverse canal so that they then resemble the letter H. No zygospore is formed, but the conjugated sporidia are its equivalent. The j question of the sexual nature of this process is still under discussion, but it is made highly probable by the fact that, in all fully investigated cases, the sporidia are incapable of independent j germination.
In the allied groups of the Peronosporeae and Saprolegnie® two kinds of sexual organs are present, male and female, which correspond to the antlieridia and oogonia of the Algae. The female organ is here also termed an oogonium, and, like that of the Alga;, it may produce one oosphere (Peronosporeae) or many (most Saprolegniese). The male organ is also usually termed an anthe-ridium, but it is sometimes spoken of as a pollinodium on account of the mode in which it effects the fertilization of the oosphere. In one of the plants allied to these groups—namely, in Monoble- \ pharis spheerica, according to Cornu—the protoplasm of the antheridium becomes differentiated into motile antherozoids ; this is the only case of the kind known among the Fungi. In the other members of these groups in which fertilization takes place the antheridium lies in contact with the oogonium, and produces at its apex a delicate tubular outgrowth, which bores its way through the wall of the oogonium and comes into contact witlvan oosphere ; the tube then opens, and protoplasm from the antheridium passes through into the oosphere and fuses with it to form an oospore.
In the Ascomycetes sexual organs are very commonly present, t but it is only in a few cases that a sexual process has been observed actually to take place. The sexual oi’gans differ considerably in their form in the different genera. In some (e.g., Gymnoascus, Eremascus, Eurotium, Penicillium) the sexual organs are similar ; they are unicellular or multicellular hyphse, but in some the female organ, termed in the Ascomycetes the ascogonium or carpo-gonium, may be distinguished from the male organ, which is a pollinodial antheridium like that of the Peronosporese, in that it is wound into a close spiral. In others {e.g., Erysiphese, Ascobolus, Pyronema {Pezizd\ confluens) the sexual organs are readily distinguishable. In the Erysipheae and in Pyronema the ascogonium is a single relatively large ovoid cell ; that of Pyronema produces a delicate tubular outgrowth, the trichogyne ; the antheridium also is unicellular, but it is more slender. In Ascobolus the ascogonium consists of a row of five or six relatively large cells ; the antheridium is a slender multicellular hypha. In all these cases the sexual organs are developed in such close proximity to each other that they come into contact. In other Ascomycetes belonging to the Discomycetous Lichens (Collema, Synechoblastus, Leptogium, Physma), and to the Pyrenomycetes (Polystigma), the antheridial filaments, termed sterigmata, are developed at a distance from the female organ in separate receptacles, spermogonia. In this case the formation of male cells is a necessity. Accordingly cells, termed spermatia, are produced from the sterigmata by abstraction, which resemble the male cells of the Florideae in that they are non-motile and have a cell-wall.
With regard to the process of fertilization, it must be premised that in no Ascomycete is the protoplasm of the ascogonium ever differentiated into an oosphere. When the sexual organs are ascogonia and pollinodial antheridia, fertilization takes place by the fusion of the undifferentiated protoplasmic contents of the two organs, a mode of fertilization which recalls the conjugation in the Mucorini, and in the Conjugatie among the Algxe. This has only been observed to take place in Eremascus and in Pyronema; in the latter the antheridium applies its apex to the trichogyne of the ascogonium, the intervening walls are absorbed, and the protoplasm of the two organs coalesces. Although this process of fertilization resembles the conjugation occurring in the Mucorini, the product is very different. The product of conjugation in the Mucorini is a single cell, the zygospore ; the product of fertilization in the Ascomycetes is a “lumber of cells, termed ciscospores or carpospores. Thus in Eremascus the product of fertilization is a unicellular capsule, the ascus, in which eight ascospores are formed. In Pyronema the fertilized ascogonium enlarges and • gives rise to a number of outgrowths which produce asci; at the same time a number of h}r plue grow up from below around the developing asci, some of which produce delicate filaments, termed
paraphyses, which lie amongst the asci, whereas others form an investing wall. The result is the formation of a fructification, termed an apothccium. Within each ascus eight spores are formed.
In those Ascomycetes which have spermatia fertilization is effected, as in the Floride* among the Algie, by the fusion of a spermatium with the trichogyne. The result is the same as in Pyronema : the fertilized ascogonium gives rise to hyphee which bear asci, and these, together with sterile liyphse, form a fructification.
It is of interest to note the similarity between the products of fertilization in these Ascomycetes and in the Florideie. In both cases the female organ produces no differentiated oosphere, and in both cases the product of its fertilization is a many-spored fructification. It was pointed out, in speaking of the Floridese, that each carpospore is the equivalent of a fertilized oosphere (oospore) ; this holds good also with regard to the carpospores (ascospores) of  the Ascomycetes.
It may be that a similar sexual process takes place in the other forms mentioned above, viz., the Erysipheie, Penicillium, Sordaria, &c., but it has not been observed ; in any case, the ascogonium in all these plants gives rise to asci and ascospores, and a more or less complex fructification is produced. But there is also some ground £ for believing that in some at least of these cases the sexual organs, c though morphologically differentiated, are functionless. For there 1 are clear indications of sexual degeneration in the Ascomycetes. j In some cases, for instance {e.g., Chsetomium, Melanospora), no ( antheridium can be distinguished, but the ascogonium eventually produces asci nevertheless. In others {e.g., Xylaria, as far as known at present) no male organ is produced, but there is an ascogonium which does not, however, give rise to asci; the asci, as well as the rest of the fructification, arise from the vegetative liyphiB. In others, again (e.g., Claviceps, Cordiceps, Pleospora), all trace of the sexual organs has disappeared, but a fructification containing ascospores is produced, as in Xylaria, from the vegetative hyphse. In others, finally, no ascospores are known, the only reproductive cells being the characteristic asexually produced stylospores.
In the remaining groups of Fungi, the Uredineae and the Basidio-mycetes, no sexual reproduction is known. In the Basidiomycetes no kind of sexual organ has been discovered. In the Uredinese spermatia are commonly produced, as in the Ascomycetes mentioned above, but no female organ is known ; however, fructifications termed secidia are in some cases developed. These resemble somewhat those of the Ascomycetes, but differ in that here the spores (secidiospores) are fonned by abstraction, and not in asci as in the Ascomycetes.
It may be suggested that the ascospores of the asexual Ascomycetes and the secidiospores of the Uredinese should not be included in an account of the sexual reproduction of the Fungi. It is true that these spores are asexually produced, but their evident homology with the sexually produced spores makes it inconvenient to treat of them apart. They differ from the sexually produced spores in that they are developed apogamously.
Under the name Archegoniata we may conveniently group together the Muscinese and the Vascular Cryptogams (Plerido-pliyta). The sexual organs, as also the process of fertilization, are essentially the same throughout. The female organ produces a single oosphere, and is termed an archcgonium ; it is essentially similar to the oogonium of the Tliallophytes, the only difference being that, whereas the archcgonium is multicellular, the oogonium is unicellular. The male organ, here also termed the antheridium, is likewise multicellular, and gives rise to a larger or smaller number of motile antherozoids. Fertilization is effected by the fusion of an antherozoid with the oosphere, which then clothes itself with a cell-wall and becomes an oospore.
In the Phanerogams the sexual organs are essentially of the nature of archegonia and of antheridia, but they are somewhat! modified and are called by other names. The female organ of the Gymnosperms, termed a corpusculum, closely resembles the archcgonium of the Archegoniata, and produces a single oosphere. In the Angiosperms, the female organ is much reduced, consisting only of three cells, one of which is the oosphere, the other two being the synergicla which assist in the process of fertilization ; the organ is termed the egg-apparatus. The male organ in the Phanerogams is a unicellular filament termed the pollen-tube ; its protoplasm does not undergo differentiation into antherozoids. The sexual organs of the Phanerogams recall those of the Perono-sporca; and the Saprolegnieae ; in both cases the female organ produces an oosphere, and in neither does the protoplasm of the antheridium produce antherozoids. The process of fertilization will be described subsequently.
Physiology of Reproduction.—From the fact that in even the most highly organized plants an isolated portion of one member is capable of producing, not merely a member like itself, but other members also, so that a new
individual is constituted, it is clear that the protoplasm of plants is imperfectly differentiated physiologically. Nevertheless all plants produce cells to which the work of reproduction is especially assigned. It is of interest to recall the fact that a suppression of spore-formation, either asexual or sexual, may occur, and vegetative multiplication be reverted to, as in aposporous and some apogamous plants.
It has been shown above that the reproductive cells of plants are of two kinds—those, namely, which are individually capable, and those which are individually incapable, of giving rise to a new organism ; the former are the asexual, the latter the sexual reproductive cells. It has also been indicated that the latter are to be regarded as derivatives of the former, a point which may now be somewhat more fully established. It was pointed out, namely, that the gametes of Ulothrix will, if they fail to conjugate, germinate independently; the sexual differentiation of these gametes is clearly imperfect, and they differ but little from asexual zoospores. The same thing has been observed in Botrydium, and this is a specially interesting case inasmuch as it throws some light upon the conditions which determine sexual differentiation of the reproductive cells in these lowly organized plants. It has been ascertained that the nature of the cells produced from the resting-spore, in the manner described above, depends upon the age of the spore producing them : when the spore is young, the cells produced by it are sexual gametes; if they fail to conjugate they perish; when the spore is old, the cells produced by it are entirely asexual zoospores; they never conjugate, but each by itself gives rise to a new individual. The imperfect sexual differentiation of the gametes has also been observed in Ectocarpus; if they fail to conjugate they germinate independently. The occurrence of this in Ectocarpus is rather surprising when it is remembered that the gametes of this plant are to some extent sexually differentiated as male and female (see above).
From these cases in which the typically sexual reproductive cells still possess the properties of asexual spores we pass to others, like Acetabularia, in which they have entirely lost these properties. The planogametes of this plant are definitely sexual; but they are quite similar, as far as external appearance goes, to each other; there is no perceptible distinction between male and female cells. This is the case also in the Mesocarpeae and the Desmidieae among the Conjugate; here the non-ciliated conjugating masses of protoplasm (aplanogametes) are externally similar ־ and take an equal part in the sexual process. In Cutleria lf the planogametes, and in the Zygnemese the aplanogametes, c give indications of further sexual differentiations; in Cutleria the female gamete is much larger than the male and comes sooner to rest; in the Zygnemese the one aplanoga-mete passes over into the cell producing the other aplano-gamete and fuses with it; the former is to be regarded as male, the latter as female. Finally, in the oosporous Algae, in the Muscinese, and in the Pteridophyta the two cells are quite distinct in form, size, and behaviour; the male cell (antherozoid) alone retains the character of a planogamete, the female (oosphere) is non-motile and is many times larger than the antherozoid. In this series the gradual differentiation of the highly differentiated sexual cells from asexual cells can be clearly traced.
If the sexual reproductive cells are to be traced back to asexual spores, then the organs which produce the sexual reproductive cells are also to be traced back to those which produce the asexual spores, namely, the sporangia; the most highly differentiated sexual organ—the antheridium, the oogonium, the archegonium, the carpogonium—is derived from the sporangium.
The question now arises as to the nature of the difference between sexual and asexual reproductive cells. It would appear that the former are in some way incomplete, that something is lacking to them which the latter possess, and that this lack is supplied in the sexual process. In many cases facts have been observed in connexion with the development of the sexual cells which indicate that they are thus incomplete. In Acetabularia the whole of the protoplasm of the gametangium is not used up in the formation of the gametes, and in the Peronosporeae only a portion of the protoplasm of the oogonium forms the oosphere ; the remainder is simply the periplasm. In Vaucheria and other Algae a mass of protoplasm escapes from the oogonium when it opens. In other cases a process of cell-division has been observed to accompany the formation of the oosphere which recalls the production of the “ polar bodies ” in the developing eggs of animals. In the Archegoniata the central cell of the archegonium does not directly give rise to the egg, but a portion, the ventral canal-cell, is first cut off; this takes place also in the cor-pusc.ulum of most Gymnosperms. Similarly in the development of antherozoids, the whole of the protoplasm of the mother-cell is never used up in their formation.
In the germinating microspore of most of the Heterosporous Vascular Cryptogams and of the Phanerogams a process of cell-division takes place which Strasburger interprets as the formation of a polar body. The protoplasm of the microspore undergoes division so that two cells are formed, which may be distinguished as the vegetative and the generative, the former being much smaller than the latter in the Vascular Cryptogams and in the Gymnosperms, whereas in the Angiosperms the converse is the case; usually the separation of the two cells is permanent, but in most Angiosperms it is transitory, the only permanent indication of the cell-division being the presence of two nuclei in the pollen-grain; in some Gymnosperms two or three more vegetative cells may he cut off from the generative cell. The antheridium is in all cases formed from the generative cell. These vegetative cells Strasburger regards as of the nature of polar bodies. The nucleus of the generative cell undergoes division, to form in the Heterosporous | Vascular Cryptogams the nuclei of the mother-cells of the antherozoids, and in the Phanerogams the nuclei which take part in the sexual process, as will be more fully described below.
The assumption of the incompleteness of the sexual cells may be extended to those sexual reproductive organs which, like the procarpia of the Florideae, the pollinodial antheridia of the Peronosporeae, the ascogonium and pollinodial antheridia of the sexual Ascomycetes, do not give rise to differentiated sexual cells.
There is reason to believe that the sexual reproductive cells are spores which, by the loss of certain of their constituents, have undergone sexual differentiation, and that those sexual organs which directly take part in the sexual process without the intervention of reproductive cells are sporangia which have undergone sexual differentiation in the same way. This is finally proved by the fact that in cases in which the normal phenomena of sexual differentiation do not take place the reproductive cells can germinate without fertilization, and the female sexual organ can produce, without fertilization, cells capable of germination. These cases are examples of that form of apogamy which is known as parthenogenesis. Parthenogenesis in | plants producing differentiated sexual cells hasbeen observed in the Mucorini, the Entomoplithorese, and the Saproleg-nieae among the Fungi, and in Chara crinita among the Algae. In some Mucorini (occasionally in Absidia septata, A. capillata, Muco fusiger, Sporodinia, always in Mucor tenuis) and in some Entomophthoreae, namely, the conjugating liyphae remained closed, and the protoplasmic contents of each surrounds itself with a cell-wall, the cells thus produced being quite similar to the normal zygospore; these cells are termed azygospores. In the Saprolegnieae and in Clmra crinita the oospheres behave like oospores and germinate in the same manner. The details of the development of these asexual sexual reproductive cells has been fully investigated by De Bary in the case of the
oosphères of the Saprolegnieæ. In this case that differentiation of the protoplasm of the oogonium into ooplasm and periplasm which has been described above as occurring in the closely allied and completely sexual Peronosporeæ does not take place, but the whole is used in the formation of the oosphères. It is quite clear also that in the Saprolegnieæ no sexual process takes place. In some species of Saprolegnia the antheridia are altogether absent, in others they are rudimentary, and even in those Saprolegnieæ (some species of Saprolegnia, Achlya, Aphanomyces) in which the antheridia are well-developed they remained closed. No case is known of male parthenogenesis, that is, of the development of an individual from a male reproductive cell, among plants in which the sexual differentiation of the reproductive cells is well-marked, but there are instances of the kind in more lowly organized plants. Thus in the Mucorini, mentioned above, one of the azygo-spores produced may be regarded as belonging to a male organ ; again, in Ectocarpus the male planogamete germinates independently as well as the female. Among plants the sexual organs of which do not produce specialized reproductive cells instances of parthenogenesis also occur. Thus the spores (ascospores) which are produced by the female organ (ascogonium) of those Ascomycetes, such as the Erysipheæ, Pénicillium, Melanospora, Xylaria, in which the male organ is functionless or absent can only be regarded as being parthenogenetically produced.
Admitting, then, that sexual differ from asexual reproductive cells in the lack of something which the latter possess, and which was thrown off either from the former or from the organs which produce them, we may go on to inquire what this something may be. Our information on this point is very scanty, but Strasburger’s views throw some light upon it. He considers, namely,
• that the formative processes of the cell are regulated by the hyaline plasma of the nucleus—the nucleo-idioplasma, as he terms it ; the richer the nucleus is in this substance the more capable is the cell of producing new cells. The asexual reproductive cells are then cells the nuclei of which are especially rich in this substance. He considers that the differences between asexual and sexual reproductive cells is quantitative and not qualitative—that the nuclei of the former are rich in nucleo-idioplasma, those of the latter poor, either originally or by the throwing off of part of their substance in the mode described above. In endeavouring to account for the further differentiation of sexual reproductive cells into male and female, it seems natural to suggest that the respective nuclei have undergone a qualitative differentiation, and that in the sexual process the qualitative, as w׳ell as the quantitative, incompleteness of each is made good. Strasburger is, however, strongly of opinion that this is not so, but that the difference is purely quantitative. But it must be pointed out that, according to this view, there is no reason why a sexual process should not take place, either between two male cells or organs, or between two female cells or organs, a possibility which is never realized, nor is it possible to account for the fact to be subsequently discussed that in many cases a sexual process cannot take place between sexual cells or organs of a closely-allied origin.
The nature of the sexual process will be better understood by a detailed description of it in some particular case. The following is a brief account of the results of Strasburger’s observations on the process of fertilization in Angiosperms.
At the period of the dehiscence of the anther, the protoplasm of the pollen-grain undergoes division into two cells—a smaller, the >- generative cell, and a larger, the vegetative cell. At the time of pollination, when the pollen-grain is mature, it is usually the case that the only persisting indication of the previous cell-division is the presence of two nuclei in the protoplasm. In many cases
the two nuclei were found to differ qualitatively, inasmuch as the generative nucleus stained readily when treated with carmine, picro-carmine, methyl-green, &c., whereas the vegetative nucleus stained imperfectly or not at all. On the formation of the pollen-tube, the generative nucleus, and sometimes the vegetative nucleus also, is carried down into it, and the former then undergoes division into two ; occasionally one of the new nuclei divides again. The pollen-tube grows down the style, enters the ovary, and is directed to the micropyle of an ovule. In the ovule the egg-apparatus lies at the micropylar end of the embryo-sac, and the delicate wall of the embryo-sac covering it undergoes absorption. In its further growth the pollen-tube comes into contact with the synergic!* ; in some cases its growth now stops, and a portion of its protoplasm, with one or both of the generative nuclei, passes through the mucilaginous wall at the apex of the tube, without leaving any opening behind it, and travels to the oosphere ; in other cases the pollen-tube grows between the synergidie to the oosphere, and at once pours a portion of its protoplasm with a generative nucleus into it. This is followed by the appearance of a second nucleus in the oosphere (the male pronucleus), which is the generative nucleus derived from the pollen-tube, which now travels towards the nucleus of the oosphere {female pronucleus) and fuses with it; wheu the two pronuclei have each a nucleolus these also eventually fuse. Fertilization is now complete.
The synergidie take no direct share in the process of fertilization, but become disorganized; their disorganization usually begins when the pollen-tube first comes into contact with them. They serve merely to direct the pollen-tube or its escaped contents to the oosphere and to provide nourishment for them.
The fusion of the male and female pronuclei has been observed also in the oosphere of the Gymnosperms, and in the conjugation of Spirogyra.
Since plants are so commonly able to reproduce vege-tatively, the question arises as to the necessity of the production, either sexually or asexually, of spores. The biological importance of these cells is very great. They are capable, namely, of retaining their vitality under external conditions, such as long drought, absence of food, extremes of heat and cold, which would prove fatal to the plant, and they therefore are essential to the maintenance of the species. Further they are of importance in the distribution of the species; they are light, readily transportable by wind or water, in some cases themselves actively motile. In this way they serve to prevent that close aggregation of individuals of the same species which would result from a continued vegetative multiplication, and would prove injurious to the species. In the case of Phanerogams, in which the macrospore is not set free from its sporangium, the same ends are obtained by the production of seeds.
The further question now arises as to the importance of the sexual process.
It appears that, if any given species, at least among the higher plants, is reproduced through a long series of generations in a non-sexual manner, the individuals tend to degenerate, and the original well-developed form can only be reattained by the formation of a sexually produced spore. This result is to some extent realized by the fusion of two sexual cells or organs belonging to the same individual—that is, by self-fertilization—but more completely when the fusion takes place between sexual cells or organs belonging to distinct individuals—that is, by cross-fertilization. In some plants, as in the Peronosporem and in those sexual Ascomycetes which have pollinodial antheridia, self-fertilization alone is possible ; this is also the case in certain Phanerogams in which the arrangements are such (notably in cleistogamous flowers) that only pollen from its own anthers can reach the stigma of the flower. In most cases, however, the conditions under which the sexual process is carried on, such as the formation of free-swimming gametes and antherozoids, and of spermatia and pollen-grains which can be readily conveyed from place to place, are such as to favour the occurrence of cross-fertilization. In some there are special arrangements for the attainment of this end, the most general of which is dioecism, that is, the production of the male and female organs by distinct organisms. Thus in certain Fucaceae (Fucus vesicidosus, F. nodosus,
F. serratus, Ilimanthalia lorea) some individuals bear only antheridia, and others only oogonia; among the Muscineae the plants are frequently either male or female; in the Isosporous Vascular Cryptogams the prothallia are usually hermaphrodite ; but exclusively male and female prothallia occur not unfrequently in the Filices and as a rule in the Equisetáceas. In the Heterosporous Vascular Cryptogams dioecism is brought about in a somewhat different manner: these plants have, as mentioned above, two kinds of spores, macrospores and microspores; the former on germination always give rise to a female (archegoniate) prothallium, the latter to a male (antheridial) prothallium; hence the male and female organs are necessarily borne on distinct organisms. In some Phanerogams even the two kinds of spores are produced by separate individuals, the flowers of the one producing pollen-grains (microspores) but no embryo-sacs, those of the other producing embryo-sacs (macrospores) but no pollen-grains. More special arrangements are to be found in the flowers of Phanerogams for ensuring cross-fertilization, and preventing self-fertilization, e.g., the development of highly-coloured perianth-leaves and the secretion of nectar to attract insects, dichogamy, heterostylism, &c.; but it is impossible to do more than mention these here.
But besides these obvious structural arrangements for ensuring cross-fertilization and preventing self-fertilization there are in some cases imperceptible physiological conditions which even more certainly lead to the same results. It appears, namely, that in such cases no sexual process can take place between reproductive cells or organs of closely-allied origin. Thus, among the Algae, in Ecto-carpus and in Aceta bularía, conjugation only takes place between planogametes derived from distinct gametangia, and in Dasycladus it only takes place between piano-gametes derived from gametangia borne by different individuals. Again, in many Phanerogams, as Darwin has shown, the pollen of one flower is quite incapable of fertilizing the oospheres of its own ovules, and the pollen-grains from another flower borne by the same plant is but slightly, if at all, more potent. The pollen from the flower of another individual of the same species is potent, and this the more so the wider the difference between the individuals; the pollen from an individual of a different variety is more potent than that from an individual of the same variety.
The effect of the sexual process is not necessarily confined to the cells or organs which directly take part in it; not infrequently it makes itself felt in adjoining organs, stimulating them to active growth, giving rise to the formation of a fruit or fructification. Thus in the Mu-corini an outgrowth of filaments, forming an incomplete or complete (Mortierella) investment to the zygospore, takes place from the sexual organs after conjugation; in Coleochsete the oogonium becomes surrounded, after the fertilization of the oosphere, by an investment formed by outgrowths from the adjacent vegetative cells; a cellular investment is formed in the same way round the fertilized procarpium in most Florideae, and round the fertilized ascogonium in the Ascomycetes. The most familiar case of fruit-formation is that occurring in the Phanerogams; here in many instances the carpels, in some the floral leaves of the perianth, and in some the floral receptacle (torus) grow actively after the fertilization of the oospheres has taken place, giving rise to a mass of succulent parenchymatous tissue. In the Orchidese the development of the ovules does not take place at all until the flower has been pollinated.
Germination of the Spores and Alternation of Generations. —The spores of plants may either germinate immediately on their production, or they may undergo a· longer or shorter period of quiescence; those which are destined for immediate germination have, as described above, a thii cell-wall, whereas those which are capable of undergoing a period of quiescence have a thick cell-wall. In som! cases the spores are incapable of immediate germination notably sexually produced spores; for instance, amon¿ the Algae, immediate germination is only known to tak< place in the case of the zygospores of Botrydium anc Ectocarpus, and of the oospore of Fucus; among th< Fungi the zygospores of the Mucorini and the oospores ol the Peronosporese and Saprolegnieae pass through a perioc of quiescence.
The mode of germination is not always the same. Ir most cases the spore gives rise directly to a new organism, either by protruding one or more filamentous outgrowths or by the division of its protoplasm to form the tissue o: the embryo. In some cases the spore behaves like £ reproductive organ; from its protoplasm are formed £ larger or smaller number of cells, either motile or non motile, which are set free. In Acetabularia, and undei certain circumstances in Botrydium, the asexually pro duced spore behaves like a sexual reproductive orgai (gametangium), giving rise to a number of planogametes similarly the spore of Protomyces produces within itself £ number of conjugating sporidia. In some Peronosporea (always in Cystopus; occasionally, according to circum stances, in Pythium, Phytophthora, and Peronospora) th( asexually produced spore behaves like a sporangium, anc gives rise to a number of zoospores from each of which i new individual is developed. This happens occasionally also in sexually produced spores. Among the Fungi, th( formation of zoospores in the oospore occurs in various species of Peronosporeae and Saprolegnieae. Among the Algae, zoospores are formed in the zygospores of Pandorina and Ulothrix, and in the oospores of (Edogonium and Sphaeroplea. Cases of a similar kind are known also in the Phanerogams; thus in some Coniferae, and notably in the Gnetaceous Ephedra altissima, a process of cell-formation goes on in the oospore, resulting in the formation of a a larger or smaller number of cells from each of which an embryo plant is developed. These cases, in which, namely, the spore, whether sexually or asexually produced, gives rise to a number of cells, each of which is capable, by itself, of developing into a new individual, are instances of whal is known as polyembryony.
In some cases the cells formed in the sexually produced spore dc not each give rise to a new individual; this obtains in the Hydro-dictyese. In Hydrodictyon utricidatum the protoplasm of the zygospore gives rise to two or four large zoospores which eventually come to rest and remain quiescent for several months ; these resting spores are termed, on account of their form, polyhedra. On germination, the protoplasm of the polyhedron gives rise to a number of small zoospores, the endospore protruding as a delicate vesicle, within which the zoospores are in active movement; the zoospores eventually come to rest, without escaping from the endospore, and arrange themselves so as to form the meshes of a small sac-like net, which is a young Hydrodictyon ; the endospore is then disorganized, and the young net is set free a^ an independent ccenobium.
Occasionally it happens that a portion only of the spore gives rise to the embryo. This is the case in the sexually produced spores (oospores) of the Characese, and in those of the Coniferae; in Selaginella and in the Angiospermous Phanerogams one-half oi the oospore gives rise to a filamentous structure, the suspensor, the other half to the main body of the embryo.
It is very commonly the case that the spore, on germination, gives rise to an organism unlike that by which the spore was produced. In a Moss, for example, the asexually produced spores are developed by an organism, the sporogonium, consisting typically of a longer or shorter stalk, the seta, bearing a capsule (theca) which produces the spores. When one of these spores germinates, it does not give rise to another sporogonium, but to an inconspicuous, usually filamentous, structure, the protonema,
upon which are developed, as lateral buds, moss-plants consisting of stem and leaves and bearing the sexual reproductive organs. Similarly, when the oospore has been formed by fertilization in the archegonium, it does not give rise to the sexual moss-plant, but to the asexual sporogonium. There is thus in the life-history of a Moss a regular alternation of a sexual with an asexual generation ; the former may be conveniently termed the oophore, the latter the sporophore·, the asexually produced spore always gives rise to the oophore (moss-plant), the sexually produced spore (oospore) of the moss-plant always gives rise to the sporophore (sporogonium).
This kind of life-history is not peculiar to the Muscinere, but it can be traced, more or less clearly, in all the vascular plants (Pteridophyta, Phanerogams). In the Isosporous Vascular plants, those, namely, which produced spores of one kind only (Filices, Equisetacem, Lycopo-diacese), the asexually produced spore gives rise, on germination, to a small inconspicuous organism consisting entirely of cellular tissue, termed the prothallium, on which the sexual reproductive organs, the antheridia and arcliegonia, are borne; the oospore produced by fertilization in the archegonium gives rise to the well-developed plant, consisting of stem, root, and leaves, which produces the sporangia and spores. The prothallium, derived from the asexually produced spore, is clearly the sexual generation or oophore; the fully-developed plant derived from the sexually produced spore is the asexual generation or sporophore. In the Heterosporous Vascular plants, those, namely, which produce spores of two kinds (Rliizocarpae, Ligulatse, Phanerogams), the spores likewise give rise to prothallia, though they may be rudimentary. The microspore gives rise to a prothallium which is reduced to a single antheridium, and which, with the exception of Salvinia among the Rhizocarps, and of the Phanerogams, does not project from the spore; in Salvinia and in the Phanerogams it projects from the spore in the form of a closed tube, which is known in the Phanerogams as the pollen-tube. Similarly the macrospore of these plants gives rise to a small cellular prothallium bearing one or more archegonia, which in the Rhizocarps extends beyond the limits of the spore, but does not become free from it; in the Ligulatae (Selaginella and Isoetes) the prothallium is only partially exposed by the rupture of the coats of the spore, and in the Phanerogams, w7 here it is termed the endosperm, it remains permanently and completely enclosed within the spore (embryo-sac). In the Heterosporous Vascular plants, then, as in the Isosporous, the asexual generation or sporophore is that which is termed the plant, which is highly differentiated morphologically and histologically, and which produces the sporangia and the spores; the sexual generation or oophore is here represented by two prothallia, the one exclusively male, the other exclusively female, derived respectively from the microspores and the macrospores.
Such a life-history can be stated generally in the following manner:—twice in its course the individual consists of a single cell, the spore, which in the one case has been produced asexually, in the other sexually; the sexual generation (oophore) springs from the asexually produced spore, and gives rise to the sexually produced spore (oospore) from which the asexual generation (sporophore) is developed. It is of interest to note that in most cases the organism developed from the sexually produced spore is much more highly organized than that developed from the asexually produced spore.
A peculiarity of the macrospores of the Phanerogams is worthy of mention here, as it leads to the production of that structure, the seed, which is characteristic of Phanerogams; the production of a seed constitutes, in fact, the only real and constant distinction between Phanerogams and Cryptogams.
As a rule the asexually produced spores of plants become free from the sporangium in which they have been formed. In Phanerogams this is true only of the microspores (pollen-grains), the macrospores (embryo-sacs) remaining permanently enclosed in the sporangia (mucellus) producing them. This being the case, their germination, i.e., the formation of endosperm, must take place within them whilst enclosed in the sporangium ; and, further, the formation of the female reproductive organs and the development of the embryo must take place under these circumstances also. The result is the production of a seed. In a typical seed three generations of the plant are represented ; they are as follows :— sporangial tissue belonging to the parent sporophore = perisperm ; tissue belonging to the oophore    = endosperm ;
the new sporophore    = embryo.
In the seed the development of the new asexual plant proceeds to a certain limit. When this is reached the development ceases, and it is only when the seed is placed under favourable conditions that the further development of the embryo, i.e., the germination of the seed, can take place.
It lias now been sliown that in the life-history of the. Muscineæ and in plants above them in the vegetable1  kingdom there is a regular alternation of generations, and ' the question now arises as to how far this is true of the ! life-history of plants lower than the Mosses, that is, in the Thallophytes. It is clear that no such alternation can take place in the life-history of those which are known to reproduce only either sexually or asexually, nor in that of those individuals which produce spores both sexually and asexually, either simultaneously or at different times.
The following are instances of the above-mentioned possible cases :—
Thallophytes reproduced only by asexually produced spores :— Algæ : Cyanophyceæ or Phycochromaceæ ; Protococcaceæ ;
Spliacelariæ and Laminarieæ so far as known at present. Fungi : Schizomycetes ; Saccharomycetes ; Myxomycètes ; some Chvtridieæ ; probably many Mucorini ; a few Peronosporeæ (probably Fhytophthora infestans and Pythium intermedium) ; some Ascomycetes and Ure-dineæ ; Basidiomycetes.
Thallophytes reproduced only by sexually produced spores :—
Algæ: Conjugatæ ; Fucaceæ ; Sphæropleæ. The case of the Characeæ will be subsequently discussed.
Fungi : a few Peronosporeæ (Pythium vexans, Artotrogus) ; Ancylistes Closterii ; Aplanes Brauniiamong the Sapro-legnieæ ; some Ascomycetes, Eremascus, Sordaria (Hypocopra), Ascobolusfurfuraceus, Pyronema confluens, Gymnoascus, Collemaceæ and other Lichen-Fungi ; some Uredineæ in which only æcidiospores are known.
Thallophytes in which the same form produces spores both asexually and sexually :—
Algæ : Vaucheria, Hydrodictyon, Ulothrix, Œdogonium, some Florideæ (e.g., Polysiphonia xariegata).
Fungi : Mucorini ; most Peronosporeæ and Saprolegnieæ ; Monoblepharis ; among the Ascomycetes, the Erysi-plieæ, Eurotium, Pénicillium, Nectria ; some Uredineæ ( Uromyces appendiculatus, U. Bchenis, U. Scrophulariæ, U. Cestri, Puccinia Berberidis).
In some of the Algæ, as in the Volvocineæ, in the life-history of which distinct sexual and asexual forms occur, no alternation of generations can be traced, since there is no certainty as to the nature of the form arising from any given spore ; the form developed from the asexually produced spore is not, as in the typical life-history of the !Mess, necessarily sexual, nor is the individual produced from the sexually produced spore necessarily asexual. But in the life-history of some others an alternation of generations is traceable. Thus in the Siphonaceous Acetabularia the plant produces spores; these, as mentioned above, behave on germination as gametangia ; the gametes conjugate to form a zygospore, and from the zygospore the asexual Acetabularia springs. Here there is a distinct and regular alternation of generations ; the Acetabularia-plant is the asexual generation (sporophore), the gametangia alone representing the sexual generation (oophore). The life-history of Botrydium, another Siphonaceous Alga, is essentially the same as that of Acetabularia, but it is frequently less regular ; thus the resting-spores, instead of producing gametes, may directly germinate to form a
Botrydium-plant, a process which is clearly a case of apogamy; and, further, the Botrydium-plant does not necessarily produce resting-spores, but may produce zoospores by which it is directly reproduced. In Coleo-chsete, too, alternation of generations is indicated. The oospore produces by division a small individual which is always asexual, giving rise to zoospores which likewise produce asexual individuals; this asexual reproduction may continue through a number of generations until eventually a sexual individual is developed. In Coleo-chsete it is only in the case of the sexually produced spore that the nature of the resulting organism is known; it always gives rise to an asexual form, whereas the asexually produced spores give rise to an individual which may be either sexual or asexual. In the Characese the oospore always gives rise to an imperfectly developed form, the proembryo, which is to be regarded as the sporophore; however, it never produces spores, but gives rise to the sexual Chara-plant (oophore) vegetatively by budding.
The study of the life-history of the Fungi is attended with considerable difficulty, partly on account of the fact that in many cases the development of the sexual organs is dependent upon a combination of external circumstances which may but rarely present itself, and partly on account of there being frequently a great difference in habit between the sexual and asexual forms of the same plant, a difference which is sometimes accentuated, in parasitic Fungi, by the occurrence of the two forms on different plants as hosts (keteroecism). But there are Fungi in the life-history of which alternation of generations has been ascertained. Before entering upon an account of these, it must be stated that the term “sexually produced spore” will be applied not only to those the formation of which is known to be preceded by a sexual process, but also to those which are formed probably or actually without a sexual process—in a word, apogamously—but which may be considered, as pointed out above, to be homologous with those which are actually sexually produced.
In Mucor Mucedo and Phycomyces nitens among the Mucorini, for instance, the zygospore gives rise on germination to an imperfectly developed individual (promycelium) which is entirely asexual and produces spores; one of these spores, in turn, gives rise to an individual which produces spores asexually but may also bear sexual reproductive organs. Essentially the same life-history may be traced in certain Peronosporete (Phytophthora omnivora, Pythium proliferum). In these cases the form developed from the sexually produced spore is always asexual, whereas that derived from the asexually produced spore may be sexual, but it always produces spores asexually; hence there is not a strict alternation of an asexual ancl a sexual generation. In others the alternation is complete. In the Ustilaginese, for instance, the asexually produced spore gives rise to an imperfectly developed mycelium (promycelium), which is the sexual generation; it produces the sporidia, which conjugate in pairs, and from the product of conjugation springs the mycelium, which bears asexually produced spores.
Essentially the same life-history has been traced in some Ascomycetes and Uredineae. In Claviceps (Ascomy-cete) the sexually produced spore (ascospore) gives rise to an asexual form, long regarded as a distinct genus under the name of Sphacelia, from the spores of which the sexual form is reproduced. In Sclerotinia (Peziza) Fuckeliana (Ascomycete), a similar regular alternation of generations occasionally but not always occurs; the ascospore may give rise to an asexual form, long known as Botrytis cinerea, and when it does so the alternation of generations is complete; but it may give rise to another sexual generation, in which case no־ alternation takes place. In
Polystigma (Ascomycete), the ascospore gives rise to a promycelium which bears sporidia, and these sporidia give rise to the sexual form. In Endophyllum (Uredineae) the life-history is precisely the same as that of Polystigma: the promycelium is the sporophore generation, the mycelium developed from the sporidium the oophore. In other Uredineae the life-history is slightly modified in that asexually produced spores of at least two kinds make their appearance. The sexually produced spore (oecidiospore) gives rise to a mycelium which, in Gymno-sporangium and Hemipuccinia, bears asexually produced spores, teleutospores; in Puccinia Graminis the formation of teleutospores is preceded by that of somewhat different spores, the uredospores; in any case the teleutospore gives rise, on germination, to a second asexual generation, the promycelium, which bears sporidia; from these the sexual secidium-bearing generation is developed.
The rule that, in the alternation of generations, the alternate generations are developed from spores produced either sexually or asexually is not, however, without exceptions, for in some instances the one generation may spring vegetatively from the other without the intervention of a spore. This is brought about by the suppression either of the sexually produced spore or of the asexually produced spore; the former is an instance of apogamy, the latter of apospory.
Thus in the apogamous Ferns mentioned above, the asexual generation (sporophore) is developed as a bud upon the sexual generation (oophore); and in Botrydium the gametangium which is the representative of the sexual generation may, instead of producing gametes, produce zoospores, in which case the new asexual individual is not developed from a sexually produced zygospore, but from an asexually produced zoospore. Similarly, in the apo-sporous Ferns and Mosses and in the Characese the oophore is developed as a bud from the sporophore.
The alternation of generations may be also interfered with by a combination of apogamy and apospory. This is the case, namely, when one generation gives rise to its like by vegetative budding, sporophore to sporophore, oophore to oophore. For instance, when, as in the Phanerogams mentioned above (Coelebogyne, Funkia, Nothoscordum, Citrus), embryos are produced vegetatively from the tissue of the nucellus, that is, sporophore from sporophore, the typically intervening formation of spores, first, by the asexual method and, secondly, by the sexual method is suppressed. This is necessarily always the case among Phanerogams when one plant is produced vegetatively from anothei־. A striking instance of the same thing has been observed by Goebel in some species of Isoetes, in which an Isoetes plant was produced on the leaf in place of a sporangium. Similarly when oophore springs vegetatively from oophore, the typically intervening formation, first, of the sexually produced spore and, secondly, of the asexually produced spore, is suppressed. This occurs when, as mentioned above, a Moss-plant gives rise by budding or by means of gemma: to another Moss-plant, and when a Fern-prothallium gives rise to another by means of gemmte.
Bibliography.—General: Sachs, Text-look, 2d English edition, 1882; Goebel, Grundzüge der Systematik, 1882; Yines, “Alternation of Generations in Thallophytes, ” Journal of Botany, 1879 ; Pringsheim, “Ueber den Generationswechsel bei den Thallophyten,” Jahrb. f. JViss. Bot., xi., 1877. Algae: Ealkenberg, in Schenk’s Handbuch der Botanik, ii., 1882; Yines, “The Pro-embryo of Chara,” Journal of Botany, 1878. Fungi: De Bary, Vergleichende Morphologie und Biologie der Pilze, 1884. Ferns: Cramer, “ Ueber die geschlechtslose Vermehrung des Farn-prothaliums,” in Denkschriften der Schweitz. naturforsch. Gesellschaft, xxviii., 1880; Bower, “On Apospory in Ferns,” Jour. Linn. Soc., Botany, vol. xxi., 1885. Mosses: Pringsheim, Monatsbericht d. Akad. d. JViss. in Berlin, 1876 ; Stahl, Botanische Zeitung, 1876. Physiology : Strasburger, Ueber Befruchtung und Zelltheilung, 1878, and Neue Untersuchungen über den Befruchtungsvorgang bei den Phanero-gamen, 1884.    (S. H. V.)
HEPSOLD, a family of German instrument makers. Johann Georg Repsold (1771-1830), was born at Wremen in Hanover on September 23, 1771, became an engineer and afterwards chief of the fire brigade in Hamburg, where he started business as an instrument maker early in the present century. He was killed by the fall of a wall during afire on January 14, 1830. The business has been continued by his sons Georg and Adolf and his grandsons Johannes and Oscar.
J. G. Repsold introduced essential improvements in the meridian circles by substituting microscopes (on Ramsden’s plan) for the verniers to read the circles, and by making the various parts perfectly symmetrical. For a number of years the tirm was foremost in this special branch and furnished meridian circles to the observatories at Hamburg, Königsberg, Pulkova, &c.; later on the activity in this direction declined, while Pistor and Martins of Berlin rose to eminence in the manufacturing of transit circles. But after the discon-! tinuance of this firm that of Repsold has again come to the front, not only in the construction of transit circles, but also of equatorial I mountings and more especially of heliometers (see Micrometer).
REPTILES
\NTELIXN/EAN writers comprised the animals which popularly are known as Tortoises and Turtles, Crocodiles, Lizards and Snakes, Frogs and Toads, Newts and Salamanders, under the name of Oviparous Quadrupeds or four-limbed animals which lay eggs. Linnaeus, desirous of giving expression to the extraordinary fact that many of these animals pass part of their life in the water and part on land,@@1 substituted the name of Amphibia for the ancient term. Subsequent French naturalists (Lyonnet@@2 and Brisson@@3 ) considered that the creeping mode of locomotion was a more general characteristic of the class than their amphibious habits, and consequently proposed the scarcely more appropriate name of Reptiles.
As naturalists gradually comprehended the wide gap existing between Frogs, Toads, ¿c., on the one hand, and the other Oviparous Quadrupeds on the other, they either adopted the name of Batrachia for the former and that of Amphibia for the latter, or they restricted the term Amphibia to Batrachians, calling the remainder of these creatures Reptiles. Thus the term Amphibia, as used by various authors, may apply (1) to all the various animals mentioned, or (2) to Batrachians only—and thus it has been used in the article Amphibia in the present work. The term Reptiles is used (1) by some for all the animals mentioned above, and (2) by others, as in the present article, for the same assemblage of animals after the exclusion of Batrachians. Other terms more or less synonymous with Amphibians and Reptiles in their different senses have been used by the various systematists, as we shall see hereafter.
Equally varying are the limits of the term “Saurians,” which occurs so frequently in every herpetological treatise. At first it comprised living Crocodiles and Lizards only, with which a number of fossil forms were gradually associated. As the characters and affinities of the latter became better known, some of them were withdrawn from the Saurians, and at present it is best to abandon the term altogether.
History and Literature.
a. The General Subject.
By some feature of their organization or some peculiarity in their economy Reptiles have always forced themselves upon the observation of man or excited his imagination, so that certain kinds are mentioned in the earliest written records or have found a place among the fragments of the oldest relics of human art. Such evidences of a popular knowledge of Reptiles, however, form no part of a succinct review of the literature of the subject such as it is proposed to give here. We distinguish in it five periods :—(1) the Aristotelian; (2) the Linnaean (formation of a class Amphibia, in which Reptiles and Batrachians are mixed); (3) the period of the elimination of Batrachians as one of
the Reptilian orders (Brongniart); (4) that of the separation of Reptiles and Batrachians as distinct subclasses ; (5) that of the recognition of a class Reptilia as part of the
Sauropsida (Huxley).
1. The Aristotelian Period.—As in other branches of Ar zoology, we have to start with Aristotle, who was the first to deal with the Reptiles known to him as members of a distinct portion of the animal kingdom, and to point out the characteristics by which they resemble each other and differ from other vertebrate and invertebrate animals. As the plan of his work, however, was rather that of a comparative treatise of the anatomical and physiological characters of animals than their systematic arrangement and definition, his ideas about the various groups of Reptiles are not distinctly expressed, but must be gleaned from the terms which lie employs. And even when we make due allowance for the fact that we are in possession of only a part of his writings, we cannot but perceive that he paid less attention to the study of Reptiles than to that of other classes; this is probably due to the limited number of kinds with which he could be acquainted from the fauna of his own country, and to which only very few extra-European forms, like the Crocodile, were added from other sources. And, whilst we find in some respects a most remarkable accuracy of knowledge, there is sufficient evidence that lie neglected every-day opportunities of information, as if Reptiles had not been a favourite study. Thus, lie has not a single word about the metamorphoses of Batrachians, which he treats of in connexion with Reptiles.
Aristotle makes a clear distinction between the scute or scale of a Reptile, which he describes as <£oXts, and that of a Fish, which lie designates as Xen-is. He mentions Reptiles (1) as oviparous quadrupeds with scutes, viz., Saurians and Chelonians; (2) as oviparous apodals, viz., Snakes ; (3) as oviparous quadrupeds without scutes, viz., Batrachians. He considered the first and second of these three groups as much more nearly related to each other than to the third. He says : —
“ The genus of Snakes resembles that of Lizards, nearly all the characters being common to both, if the Lizard be conceived of as prolonged and without legs. They possess scutes, and are similar to Lizards above and below, but they lack testicles; and, like Fishes, they possess two excretory ducts which coalesce, and the uterus is large and bipartite. In other respects their internal parts are like those of Lizards, save that all the intestines are long and narrow. The tongue is narrow, long, black, and very exsertile. It is a peculiarity of Snakes and Lizards that they possess a bifid tongue ; but the points of the tongue of Snakes are fine like hairs. All Snakes are “ carcharodont ” (have acute teeth); they have as many ribs as there are days in the month, viz., 30. Some say that Snakes recover the loss of an eye ; the tail is reproduced in Lizards and Snakes when cut off,” &c.
Thus accurate statements and descriptions are sadly mixed with errors and stories of, to our eyes, the most absurd and fabulous kind. The most complete accounts are those of the Crocodile (chiefly borrowed from Herodotus) and of the Chameleon, which Aristotle evidently knew from personal observation, and which he had dis-
@@@1    “*Polymorpha in liis amphibiis natura duplicem vitam plerisque coneessit. ”
@@@2    Théologie des Insectes de Lesser (Paris, 1745), i. 91, note 5.
@@@3    Règne animal divisé en nevf classes (Paris, 1756).
sected himself. The other Lizards mentioned by him are the common Lizards (σαύρα), the common Seps (χαλκίς or ζιγνίς), and the Gecko (άσ־καλαβωτης or κορΒνλος). Of Snakes (of which he generally speaks as οφίζ) he knew the Yipers («fyi9 or εχιδνα), the common Snake (v8po<;), and the Blindworm (τνφλίνης οφις), which he regards as a Snake; he further mentions the Egyptian Cobra and Dragons (δράκων)—North-African Serpents of fabulous size. Of Chelonians he describes in a perfectly recognizable manner Land Tortoises (χελώνη), Freshwater Turtles (έμνς), and Marine Turtles (χελώνη η θαλαττία).
Passing over eighteen centuries we find the knowledge of Reptiles to have remained as stationary as other branches of natural history, perhaps even more so. The Reptile fauna of Europe was not extensive enough to attract the energy of a Belon or Rondelet; popular prejudice and the difficulty of preserving these animals deterred from their study; nor was the mind of man sufficiently educated not to give implicit credence to the fabulous tales with which every account of Reptiles in the 15th and 16th centuries was replete. The art of healing, however, was developing into a science based upon rational principles, and consequently not only those Reptiles which formed part of the materia medica but also the venomous Snakes became objects of study to the physician. Snakes, and especially the Viper, were treated of in distinct divisions of general works, or in separate monographs. It is true that these treatises were written less with the view of elucidating the natural history of the animals than with that of describing their poisonous nature and indicating the manner in which they should be used as medicaments, the majority of the writers being ignorant of the structure of the venom-apparatus, and of the distinction between non-venomous and venomous Snakes.
Nothing can show more clearly the small advance made by herpetology in this long post-Aristotelian period than a glance at the celebrated work, De Differentiis Animalium Libri decern (Paris, 1552), by Edward Wotton (1492-1555). Wotton treats of the Reptiles which he designates as Quadrupedes oviparx et Serpentes in the sixth book of his work. They form the second division of the Quadrupedes qux sanguinem habent, and are subdivided in the following “ genera ” :—
Crocodilus etscincus (cap. cv.); Testudinum genera (cvi.); Ran-arum genera (cvii.); Lacertx (cviii.); Salamandra et seps quad-rupee (cix.); Stellio (cx.); Chamxleo (cxi.) ; Serpentes (cxii.), a general account, the following being different kinds of Serpents : —Hydrus et alii quidam serpentes aquatiles (cxiii.); Serpentes terrestres et primo aspidum genera (cxiv.); Vipera, dipsas, cerastes, et hammodytes (cxv.); Hxmorrlius, sepedon, seps, cenchris, et cenchrites (cxvi.); Basiliscus et alii quidam serpentes quorum venenum remedio caret (cxvii.); Draco, amphishxna, et alii quidam serpentes quorum morsus minus affert periculi (cxviii.).
As regards the treatment of the subject, Wotton’s work might with propriety be termed “Aristoteles redivivus.” The plan is the same, and the observations of the Greek naturalist are faithfully, sometimes literally, reproduced. It is surprising that even the Reptiles of his native country were most imperfectly known to the author.
A new impetus for the cultivation of the study of natural history was given through the observations and writings of travellers in India, Africa, and America. With the enlargement of geographical knowledge that of Reptiles was also advanced, as is sufficiently apparent from the large encyclopaedic works of Gesner, Aldrovandi, and Johnston. The last-named author especially, who published the various portions of his natural history in the middle of the 17th century, was able to embody in his compilations notices of numerous Reptiles observed by Francisco Hernandez in Mexico and by Marcgrave and Piso in Brazil. As the author had no definite idea of the Ray-Linnsean term “ species,” it is not possible to give the exact number of Reptiles mentioned in his work. But it may be estimated at about fifty, not including some marine fishes and fabulous creatures. He figures (or rather reproduces the figures of) about forty,—some species being represented by several figures.
2. Linnxan Period : Formation of a Class Amphibia.— Within the century which succeeded these compilatory works (1650-1750) fall the labours which prepared the wr ay for and exerted the greatest influence on Ray and Linnaeus. Although original researches in the field ol herpetology were limited in extent and in number, the authors had freed themselves from the purely literary oi scholastic tendency. Men were no longer satisfied wit! reproducing and commenting on the writings of their predecessors ; the pen was superseded by the eye, the micro scope, and the knife, and statements were tested by experiment. This spirit of the age manifested itself, sc far as the Reptiles are concerned, in Chara’s and Redi’s admirable observations on the Yiper, in Major’s and Val lisnieri’s detailed accounts of the anatomy of the Chamte leon, in the researches of Jacob.eus into the metamor phoses of the Batrachians and the structure of Lizards, ir Dufay’s history of the development of the Salamander (foi Batrachians are invariably associated with Reptiles proper) in Tyson’s description of the anatomy of the Rattlesnake <fec. The natural history collections formed by institution! and wealthy individuals now contained not merely skin! of Crocodiles or Serpents stuffed and transformed into i shape to correspond with the fabulous descriptions of tin ancient dragons; but, with the discovery of alcohol as i means of preserving animals, Reptiles entire or dissectec were exhibited for study; and no opportunity was lost o obtaining them from travellers or residents in foreigr countries. Fossils also were now acknowledged to be re mains of animals which had lived before the flood, anc some of them were recognized as those of Reptiles.
The contributions to a positive knowledge of the anima kingdom became so numerous as to render the need of £ methodical arrangement of the abundance of new facts more and more pressing. Of the two principal systematic attempts made in this period the first ranks as one of the most remarkable steps of the progress of natural history whilst the second can only be designated as a signal failure, which ought to have been a warning to all those who in aftei years classified animals in what is called an “artificial system.” As the latter attempt, originating with Klein (1685-1759), did not exercise any further influence on herpetology, it will be sufficient to have merely mentioned it. John Ray (1628-1705) had recognized the necessity of introducing exact definitions for the several categories into which the animals had to be divided, and he maintained that these categories ought to be characterized by the structure of animals, and that all zoological knowledge had to start from the “ species ” as its basis. His definition of Reptiles as “ animalia sanguinea pulmofie respirantia cor unico tantum ventriculo instructum habentia ovipara ” fixed the class in a manner which was adopted by the naturalists of the succeeding hundred and fifty years. Nevertheless, Ray was not a herpetologist; he never made these animals his special study, as is evident from the way in which he subdivides the class, as well as from his imperfect treatment of the species. His knowledge of Reptiles is chiefly derived from the researches of others, from whose accounts, however, everything not based upon reliable demonstration is critically excluded. He begins with a chapter treating of Frogs (Dana, with two species), Toads (Bufo, with one species), and Tortoises@@1
@@@1 In associating Tortoises with Toads Ray could not disengage himself from the general popular view as to the nature of these animals, which found expression in the German Schildkröte (“ Shield-toad ”).
(Testudo, with fourteen species). The second group comprises the Lacertse, twenty-live in number, and includes the Salamander and Newts; and the third the Serpentes, nine species, among which the Limbless Lizards are enumerated.
Except in so far as he made known and briefly characterized a number of Reptiles, our knowledge of this class was not advanced by Linn.eus. His notions as to the relation of the various types among themselves and to the other vertebrates were the same as those of Ray, and the progress made by herpetology in the various editions of the Systema Nature¿ is therefore of a merely formal character. That Linnaeus associated in the 12th edition cartilaginous and other Fishes with the Reptiles under the name of Amphibia Nantes was the result of some misunderstanding of an observation by Garden, and is not to be taken as a premonitory token of the recent discoveries of the relation between Batrachians and Fishes. Linnaeus places Reptiles, which he calls Amphibia, as the third class of the animal kingdom; he divides the genera thus :—
Order 1. Reptiles. —Tcstudo (15 species); Rana (17 sp.); Draco (2 sp.); Lacerta (48 sp., including 6 Batrachians).
Order 2. Serpentes. — Crotalus (5 species); Boa (10 sp.); Coluber (96 sp.); Anguis (15 sp.) ; Arnphisbxna (2 sp.); Csecilia (2sp.).
None of the naturalists who under the direction or influence of Linnaeus visited foreign countries possessed any special knowledge of or predilection for the study of Reptiles; all, however, contributed to our acquaintance with tropical forms, or transmitted well-preserved specimens to the collections at home, so that Gmelin, in the 13th edition of the Systema Natures, was able to enumerate three hundred and seventy-one species.
The man who, with the advantage of the Linnaean method, first treated of Reptiles monograpliically, was Laurenti. In a small book1@@ he proposed a new division of these animals, of which some ideas and terms have survived into our times, characterizing the orders, genera, and species in a much more precise manner than Linnaeus, giving, for his time, excellent descriptions and figures of the species of his native country. Laurenti might have become for herpetology what Artedi was for ichthyology, but his resources were extremely limited. He himself complains that he had no literary intercourse with foreign naturalists, and access to but a few works (he especially mentions Seba’s Thesaurus) and one collection only,
The circumstance that Chelonians are entirely omitted from his Synopsis seems due rather to the main object with which he engaged in the study of herpetology, viz., that of examining and distinguishing Reptiles reputed to be poisonous, and to want of material, than to his conviction that Tortoises should be relegated to another class. He divides then the class into three orders :—
T. Salientia, with the genera Pipa, Bufo, Rana, Hyla, and one species of “ Proteus,” viz., the larva of Pseudisparadoxa.
Gradientia, the three first genera of which are Tailed Batrachians, viz., two species of Proteus (one being the P. anguinus), Triton, and Salamandra; followed by true Saurians— Caudiverbera, Gecko, Cha.mselco, Iguana, Basiliscus, Draco, Cordylus, Crocodilus, Scincus, Stellio, Seps.
3. Serpentia, among which ho continues to keep Amphisbsena, Csecilia, and Anguis, but the large Linnaean genus Coluber is divided into twelve, chiefly from the scutellation of the head and form of the body.
The work concludes with an account of the experiments made by Laurenti to prove the poisonous or innocuous nature of those Reptiles of which he could obtain living specimens.
The next general work on Reptiles is by Lacépède. It appeared in the years 1788 and 1790 under the title Histoire Naturelle des Quadrupèdes Ovipares et des Serpens (Paris, 2 vols. 4to). Although as regards treatment of details and amount of information this work far surpasses the modest attempt of Laurenti, it show's no advance towards a more natural division and arrangement of the genera. The author depends entirely on conspicuous external characters, and classifies the Reptiles into (1) oviparous quadrupeds with a tail, (2) oviparous quadrupeds without a tail, (3) oviparous bipeds (Chirotes and Pseudopus), (4) Serpents,—an arrangement in which the old confusion of Batrachians and Reptiles and the imperfect definition of Lizards and Snakes are continued, and which it is worthy of remark we find also adopted in Cuvier’s Tableau Élémentaire de l’Histoire Naturelle des Animaux (1798), and nearly so by Latreille in his Histoire Naturelle des Reptiles (Paris, 1801, 4 vols. 12mo). Lacépède’s monograph, however, remained for many years deservedly the standard work on Reptiles, on account of the ability with which the author collected all reliable information on the various species, and on account of the facilities which it afforded for determining them. The numerous plates with which the work is illustrated are, for the time, well drawn, and the majority readily recognizable.
3. The Period of Elimination of Batrachians as one of the Reptilian Orders.—A new period for herpetology com-mences with Alex. Brongniart,@@2 who in 1799 first recognized the characters by which Batrachians differ from the other Reptiles, and by which they form a natural passage to the class of Fishes. Csecilia (as also Langaha and Acrochordus) is left by Brongniart with hesitation in the order of Snakes, but Newts and Salamanders henceforth are no more classed with Lizards. He leaves the Batrachians, however, in the class of Reptiles as the fourth order. The first order comprises the Chelonians, the second the Saurians (including Crocodiles and Lizards), the third the Ophidians—terms which have been adopted by all succeeding naturalists. Here, however, Brongniart’s merit on the classification of Reptiles ends, the definition and disposition of the genera remaining much the same as in the works of his predecessors.
The activity in France in the field of natural science I was at this period, in spite of the political disturbances, so great that only a few years after Lacépède’s work another, almost identical in scope and of the same extent, appeared, viz., the Histoire Naturelle Générale et Particulière des Reptiles of F. M. Daudin (Paris, 1802-3, 8 vols. 8vo). Written and illustrated with less care than that by Lacépède, it is of greater importance to the herpetologists of the present day, as it contains a considerable number of generic and specific forms described for the first time. Indeed, at the end of the work, the author states that he has examined more than eleven hundred specimens, belonging to five hundred and seventeen species, all of which he has described from nature. The system adopted is that of Brongniart, giving to the work a character by which the modern herpetologist is most favourably impressed. The genera are well defined, but ill arranged ; it is, however, noteworthy that Csecilia takes now its place at the end of the Ophidians, and nearest to the succeeding order of Batrachians.
The next step in the development of the herpeto-logical system was the natural arrangement of the genera. This involved a stupendous amount of labour ; by a careful thorough examination of all the types of Reptiles then known, reliable characters had to bo discovered, and by means of the principle of the subordination of
@@@1 Specimen medicum exhibens Synopsin Reptilium emendatam cum experimentis circa venena et antidota Reptilium Austriacorum, Vienna, 1768 (8vo, pp. 214, with 5 plates).
@@@2 Bull. Acad. Sci., 1800, Nos. 35, 36.
characters the genera had to be grouped into families within Brongniart’s orders. Although many isolated contributions were made by various workers, this task could be successfully undertaken and completed in the Paris Museum only, in which, besides Seba’s and Lacepede’s collections, many other herpetological treasures from other museums had been deposited by the victorious generals of the empire, and to which through Cuvier’s reputation objects from every part of the world were attracted in a more peaceful and voluntary manner. The men who , devoted themselves to this task were A. M. C. Dumeril, Oppel, and Cuvier himself. It is the duty of the biographer rather than the historian to ascertain what share of the merit in building up the new system should be allotted to each of these three. Oppel was a German who, during his visit to Paris (1807-8), attended the lectures of Dumeril and Cuvier, and at the same time studied the materials to which access was given to him by the latter in the most liberal manner. Dumeril@@1 maintains that Oppel’s ideas and information were entirely derived from his lectures, and that Oppel himself avows this to be the case. The passage,@@2 however, to which he refers is somewhat ambiguous; and it is certain that there is the greatest possible difference between the arrangement published by Dumeril in 1806 (Zoologie Analytique, Paris, 8vo) and that proposed by Oppel in his Ordnun-gen, Familien, und Gattungen der Reptilien (Munich, 1811, 4to). There is no doubt that Oppel profited largely by the teaching of Dumeril; but, on the other hand, there is sufficient internal evidence in the works of both authors, not only that Oppel worked independently, but also that Dumeril and Cuvier owed much to their younger fellow-labourer, as Cuvier himself indeed acknowledges more than once.
Oppel’s classification may be shortly indicated thus:— Order 1. TESTUDINATA or CH^LONIENS.
Fam. 1. Chelonii (gen. Mydas, Coriacca).
Fam. 2. Amyiee (gen. Trionyx, Chelys, Testudo, Emys).
Order 2. SQUAMATA.
Sect. A. Saurii.
Fam. 1. Crocodilini (gen. Crocodilus, Gavialis, Alligator'}.
Fam. 2. Geckoides (gen. Gecko, Stellio, Agama).
Fam. 3. Iguanoidf.s (gen. Camseleo, Draco, Iguana, Basiliscus,
Lophyrus, Anolis).
Fam. 4. Lacertini (gen. Tupinambis, Dracaena, Lacerta, Tachy-dromus).
Fam. 5. Scincoides (gen. Scincus, Seps, Scheltopusik, Anguis). Fam. 6. Chalcidici (gen. Chalcides, Bimanus, Bipcs, Ophi-
saurus).
Sect. B. OrniDir.
Fam. 1. Anguiformes (gen. Tortrix, Amphisbxna, Typhlops). Fam. 2. Constrictores (gen. Boa, Eryx).
Fam. 3. Hydri (gen. Platurus, Hydrophis).
Fam. 4. Pseudo-vipera: (gen. Acrochordus, Erpetori}.
Fam. 5. Crotalini (gen. Crotalus, Trigonocephalus).
Fam. 6. Viperini (gen. Eipera, Pseudoboa}.
Fam. 7. Colurrtni (gen. Coluber, Bungarus).
Order 3. NUDA or BATRACII.
In this classification we notice three points, which
indicate a decided progress towards a natural system. (1) The four orders proposed by Brongniart are no more considered cosubordinate in the class, but the Saurians and Ophidians are associated as sections of the same order, a view held by Aristotle but abandoned by all following naturalists. The distinction between Lizards
and Snakes is carried out in so precise a manner that one genus only, Amphisbsena, is wrongly placed. (2) The true Reptiles have now been entirely divested of all heterogeneous elements by relegating positively Cæcilia to the Batrachians, a view for which Oppel had been fully prepared by Duméril, who pointed out in 1807 that “les cécilies se rapprochent considérablement des batraciens auxquels elles semblent lier l’ordre entier des serpens.”@@3  (3) An attempt is made at arranging the genera into families, some of which are still retained at the present day.
In thus giving a well-merited prominence to Oppel’s labours, we are far from wishing to detract from the influence exercised by the master spirit of this period, Cuvier. Without his guidance Oppel probably never would have found a place among the promoters of herpetological science. But Cuvier’s principal researches on Reptiles were incidental or formed part of some more general plan ; Oppel concentrated his on this class only. The latter acquired a more correct view as regards the higher divisions, while Cuvier was enabled by a more detailed study of the genera to define certain families more precisely and arrange them in a more natural manner, and to add not a few to the generic forms. Cuvier adopts the four orders of Reptiles proposed by Brongniart as equivalent elements of the class, and restores the Blind-worms and allied Lizards, and, what is worse, also the Csecilias, to the Ophidians. The Chamæleons and Geckos are placed in separate groups, and the mode of dividing the latter has been retained to the present day. Also a natural division of the Snakes, although the foreign elements mentioned are admitted into the order, is sufficiently indicated by his arrangement of the “vrais serpens proprement dits” as (1) non-venomous Snakes, (2) venomous Snakes with several maxillary teeth, and (3) venomous Snakes with isolated poison-fangs. Without entering into those long descriptions of the species which continue to be the bane of modern zoology, he distinguishes the species of Reptiles with a precision not attained in any previous work, critically examining the literature and adding the principal references.
Cuvier’s researches into the osteology of Reptiles had not only the object of forming the basis for their arrangement, but also of discovering the means of understanding the fossil remains which now claimed the attention of French, English, and German naturalists. Extinct Chelo-nian and Crocodilian remains, Pterodactylus, Ilosasaurus, Iguanodon, Ichthyosaurus, Teleosaurus, became the subjects of Cuvier’s classical treatises which form the contents of. the 5 th volume (part 2) of his Recherches sur les Ossemens Fossiles, oà Von rétablit les caractères des plusieurs animaux dont les révolutions du globe ont détruit les espèces (new ed., Paris, 1821, 4to).
All the succeeding herpetologists adopted either Oppel’s or Cuvier’s view as to the number of orders of Reptiles, or as to the position Batrachians ought to' take in their relation to Reptiles proper, with the single exception of D. de Blainville. He divided the “ oviparous subtype” of Vertebrates into four classes, Birds, Reptiles, Amphibians, and Fishes,@@4 a modification of the system which is all the more significant as he designates the Reptiles “Squammifères Ornithoides, écailleux,״ and the Amphibians “ Nudipellifères, Ichthyoides nus.” In these terms we perceive clear indications of the relations which exist to the class of Birds on the one hand, and to that of Fishes on the other ; they are signs w’hich cast their shadow before them, but, unfortunately, Blainville himself did not follow
@@@1    Erpet. gener., i. p. 259.
@@@2    “ Wäre es nicht die Ermunterung . . . dieser Freunde gewesen, so würde ich überzeugt von den Mängeln, denen eine solche Arbeit bei aller möglichen Vorsicht doch; unterworfen ist, es nie gewagt haben, meine Eintheilung bekannt zu machen, obwohl selbe Herr Dumeril in seinen Lectionen vom Jahre 1809 schon vorgetragen, und die Thiere im Cabinet darnach bezeichnet hat” (preface, p. viii). A few lines further on he emphatically declares that the Classification is based upon his own researches.
@@@3    Mémoires de Zoologie et d’Anatomie Comparée, Paris, 1807, 8vo, p. 45.
@@@4    Bull. Sci. Soc. Philomat., July 1816.
up the ideas thus expressed, and abandoned even the terms in a later edition of liis systematic tables.
The direct or indirect influence of the work of French anatomists manifested itself in the systems of the other herpetologists of this period. The Crocodiles, especially, which hitherto (strange to say, even in Cuvier’s classification) had been placed as one of the families of Saurians, now commence to be separated from them. Merrem (Verstick eines Systems der Amphibien, Marburg, 1820, 8vo) distinguishes two classes of “Amphibians,” Pho-lidota and Batrachia.
The Pholidota (or Reptiles) are divided into three orders, distinguished chiefly by osteological and splanchnological characters:—
1.    Testudinata ;
2.    Louicata (= Crocodiles);
3.    Squamata ( = Oppel’s Squamata, excluding Crocodiles).
Merrem’s subdivision of the Squamata into (1) Gradientia
( = limbed Lacertilia), (2) Repentia (=limbless Lacertilia), (3) Serpcntia (־־Snakes and Amphisbsena), (4) Incedentia (= Chirotes), and (5) Predentia ( ־־ Chamseleons) was based chiefly on the modifications of the limbs, and not adopted by his successors. The greater part of his work is occupied with a synopsis of all the species of Reptiles known, each being shortly characterized by a diagnosis ; but, as only a small proportion (about one hundred and seventy) were known to him from autopsy, this synopsis has all the faults of a compilation.
Latreille, who commenced the study of. Reptiles as early as 1801, had kept pace with the progress of science when he published, in 1825, his Families Nciturelles du Regne, Animal (Paris, 1825, 8vo). He separated the Batrachians as a class from the Reptiles, and the latter he divides into two sections only, Cataphracta and Squamosa,— in the former Crocodiles being associated with the Che-lonians. He bases this view on the development of a carapace in both, on the structure of the feet, on the fixed quadrate bone, on the single organ of copulation. None of the succeeding herpetologists adopted a combination founded on such important characters except J. E. Gray, who, however, destroyed Latreille’s idea of Cataphracta by adding the Amphisbaenians@@1 as a third order.
Cuvier’s account of the genera and species of Reptiles in the Regne Animal was too succinct, and Merrem’s bore too much the character of a compilatory list, to furnish efficient aid in the arrangement of the mass of new materials which began to accumulate from all parts of the world in European museums. Among others, Spix had brought from his travels in Brazil a rich spoil to the Munich Museum, and the Bavarian Academy charged Joh. Wagler, who was engaged in working out these materials, to prepare a general system of Reptiles and Batrachians. His work,@@2 the result of ten years’ labour, is a simple but lasting monument to a young naturalist,@@3 who, endowed with an ardent imagination, only too frequently misinterpreted the evidence of facts, or forced it into the service of preconceived ideas. Cuvier had drawn attention to certain resemblances in some parts of the osseous structure of Ichthyosaurus and Pterodactylus to Dolphins, Birds, Crocodiles, «fee. Wagler, seizing upon such analogical resemblances, separated those extinct Saurians from the class of Reptiles, and formed of them and the Monotremes a distinct class of Vertebrates, intermediate between Mammals and Birds, which he called Gryphi. When we consider that the discovery of the mode of propagation of the Monotremes is probably reserved for the present decennium, and that the propagation of those extinct Reptiles may remain an unsolved mystery, we must
admit that Wagler has made free use of his imagination by defining his class of Gryphi as “ vertebrates with lungs lying free in the pectoral cavity; oviparous; development of the embryo (within or) without the parent; the young fed (or suckled!) by the parents.” By the last character this Waglerian class is distinguished from the Reptiles.
Reptiles (in which Wagler includes Batrachians) are divided into eight orders :—Testudines, Crocodili, Lacertse, Serpentes, Angues, Csecilioe, Ranse, and Ichthyodi. He has great merit in having employed, for the subdivision of the families of Lizards, the structure of the tongue and the mode of insertion of the teeth in the jaws. On the other hand, however well the genera of Snakes are defined by him—and their number has been increased to ninety-six— Wagler has entirely failed in arranging them in natural families, venomous and non-venomous types being mixed in the majority of his groups.
L. Fitzinger was Wagler’s contemporary; his first work@@4 preceded Wagler’s system by four years. As he says in the preface, his object was to arrange the Reptiles in “ a natural system, a system in which the objects are arranged in accordance with their greatest similarity, with their natural affinities. Such a system is a faithful image of the gradual progress of nature, expressed in words.” Unfortunately, in order to attain this object, Fitzinger paid regard to the most superficial points of resemblance; and in the tabula affinitatum generum which he constructed to demonstrate “ the progress of nature ” he has been much more successful in placing closely allied generic forms in contiguity than in tracing the relationships of the higher groups. That table is prepared in the form of a genealogical tree, but Fitzinger wished to express thereby merely the amount of morphological resemblance, and there is no evidence whatever in the text that he had a clear idea of genetic affinity. The Batrachians are placed at the bottom of the scheme, leading through llyla to the Geckos (clearly on account of the digital dilatations) and through Gsecilia to Amphisbsena. At the top Draco leads through Pterodactylus to the Bats (Pieropus), Ichthyosaurus to the Cetaceans (Delphinus), Ernys to the Monotremes, Testudo to Manis, and the Marine Turtles to the Divers and Penguins.
In Fitzinger’s system the higher groups are, in fact, identical with those proposed by Merrem, while greater originality is shown in the subdivision of the orders. He differed also widely from Wagler in his views as to the relations of the extinct forms. The order of Loricata consists of two families, the Ichthyosauroidea and Crocodiloidea, the former comprising Iguanodon, Plesiosaurus, Saurocephalus, and Ichthyosaurus. In the order Squamata Lacer-tilians and Ophidians are combined and divided into twenty-two families, almost all based on the most conspicuous external characters : the first two, viz., the Geckos and Chamseleons, are natural enough, but in the three following Iguanoids and Agamoids are sadly mixed, Pterodactyles and Draco forming one family; Mcgalosaums, Mosasaurus, Varanus, Tcjus, he., are associated in another named Ameivoidea; the Amphisbsenidse are correctly defined ; the Colubroidea are a heterogenous assemblage of thirty genera ; but with his family of Bungaroidea Fitzinger makes an attempt to separate at least a part of the venomous Colubrine Snakes from the Viperines, which again are differentiated from the last family, that of Crotaloidea.
There is sufficient evidence in this early publication that Fitzinger had at that time a good eye for seizing upon those characters by which the creation of small groups, such as genera, is regulated, and if this little work had been his only performance in the field of herpetology his name would have been honourably mentioned among his fellow-workers. But the promise of his early labours was not justified by his later work, and if we take notice of the latter here it is only because his name has become attached to many a Reptile through the pedantic rules of
@@@1    Catalogue of the Tortoises, Crocodiles, and Amphisbsenians in the Collection of the British Museum, London, 1844, 16mo, p. 2.
@@@2    Natürliches System der Amphibien mit vorangehender Classification der Säugethiere und Vögel,—ein Beitrag zur vergleichenden Zoologie, Munich, 1830, 8vo.
@@@3    Wagler was accidentally killed three years after the publication of his System.
@@@4 Neue Classification der Reptilien nach ihren natürlichen Verwandtschaften, Vienna, 1826, 4to.
zoological nomenclature. The labours of Wiegmann, Müller, Duméril, and Bibron exercised no influence on him, and when he commenced to publish a new system of Reptiles in 1843,@@1 of which fortunately one fasciculus only appeared, he exhibited a classification in which morphological facts are entirely superseded by fanciful ideas of the vaguest kind of physiosophy, each class of vertebrates being divided into five “sense ” series, and each series into three orders, one comprising forms of superior, the second of medium, and the third of inferior development. In the generic arrangement of the species, to which Fitzinger devoted himself especially in this work, he equally failed to advance science. From a superficial study of such species as were accessible to him, but chiefly from the descriptions of other authors, he selected any characters for the establishment of genera, and, abandoning entirely the value of a genus as a systematic category, he introduced a number of names, under the cloak of which he hid the superficiality of his work ; many were adopted by his successors, who, however, had to substantiate their validity by a deeper study of the taxonomic characters.
We have now arrived at a period distinguished by the appearance of a work which, by the ability of its authors, by the comprehensiveness of its scope, by the treatment of the general subject as well as of the details, superseded all its predecessors, which formed the basis for the labours of many succeeding years, and which will always remain one of the classical monuments of descriptive zoology,— the Erpétologie Générale ou Histoire Naturelle complète des Reptiles of A. M. C. Duméril and G. Bibron (Paris, 8vo). The first volume appeared in 1834, and the ninth and last in 1854. No naturalist of that time could have been better qualified for the tremendous undertaking than C. Duméril, who almost from the first year of half a century’s connexion with the then largest collection of Reptilia had chiefly devoted himself to their study. The task would have been too great for the euergy of a single man ; it was, therefore, fortunate for Duméril that he found a most devoted fellow-labourer in one of his assistants, G. Bibron, whose abilities equalled those of the master, but who, to the great loss of science, died (in 1848) before the completion of the work. Duméril had the full benefit of Bibron’s knowledge for the volumes containing the Snakes, but the last volume, which treats of the Tailed Batrachians, had to be prepared by Duméril alone.
The work is the first which gives a comprehensive scientific account of Reptiles generally, their structure, physiology, and literature. Nearly the whole of the first volume is devoted to these chapters. And again each of the four orders admitted by the authors is introduced by a similar general account. In the body of the work 121 Chelonians, 468 Saurians, 586 Ophidians, and 218 Batrachians are described in detail and with the greatest precision, On the principles of arrangement of the various orders we shall have to speak subsequently, and we mention here only that, singularly enough, the authors revert to Brongniart’s arrangement, in which the Batrachians are co-ordinate with the other three orders of Reptiles.@@2  This must appear all the more strange as Von Baer@@3 in 1828, and J. Müller@@4 in 1831, had urged, besides other essential differences, the important fact that no Batrachian
embryo possesses either an amnion or an allantois, like a Reptile.
4.    Period of the Separation of Reptiles and Batrachiam as Distinct Classes or Subclasses.—In the chronological order which we have adopted for these historical notes, we had to refer in their proper places to two herpetologists, Blainville and Latreille, who advocated a deeper than merely ordinal separation of Reptiles from Batrachians, and who were followed by F. S. Leuckart. But thi view only now began to find more general acceptance. J. Müller and Stannius were guided in their classification entirely by anatomical characters, and consequently recognized the wide gap which separates the Batrachians from the Reptiles; yet they considered them merely as subclasses of the class Amphilna. The former directed his attention particularly to those forms which seemed tc occupy an intermediate position between Lacertilians and Ophidians, and definitely relegated Anguis, Pseudopus, Acontias to the former, and Typhlops, Rhinophis, Tortrix, but also the Amphisbsenoids to the latter. Stannius interpreted the characteristics of the Amphisbaenoids differently, as will be seen from the following abstract of his classification @@5 :—
Subci.assis : AMPHIBIA MONOPNOA (Leuckart).
Sect. 1. STREPTOSTYLICA (Stann.). Quadrate bone articulated to the skull; copulatory organs paired, placed outside the cloacal cavity.
Oudo 1. OPHIDIA.
Subordo 1. Eurystomata or Macrostomata (Müll.). The facial bones are loosely connected to admit of great extension of the wide mouth.
Subordo 2. Angiostomata or Microstomata (Müll.). Mouth narrow, not extensile; quadrate bone attached to the skull and not to a mastoid.
Or.no 2. SAURIA.
Subordo 1. Amphisilenoidea.
Subordo 2. Kionocrania (Stann. ) = Lizards.
Subordo 3. Chamzeleonidea.
Sect. 2. MONIMOSTYLICA (Stann.). Quadrate bone suturally united with the skull; copulatory organ simple, placed within the cloaca.
Ordo 1. CHELONIA.
Ordo 2. CR0C0D1LIA.
This classification received the addition of a fifth Reptilian order which with many Lacertilian characters combined important Crocodilian affinities, and in certain other respects differed from both, viz., the New Zealand Ilatteria, which by its first describers had been placed to the Agamoid Lizards. Günther,@@6 who pointed out the characteristics of this Reptile, considered it to be coordinate with the other four orders of Reptiles, and characterizes it thus:—
Rhynchocephalia.—Quadrate bone suturally and immovably united with the skull and pterygoid; columella present. Rami of the mandible united as in Lacertilians. Temporal region with two horizontal bars. Vertebrae amphicoelian. Copulatory organs none.
5.    Period of the Recognition of a Class bf Reptilia as part of the Sauropsida.—Although so far the discovery of every new morphological and developmental fact had prepared naturalists for a class separation of Reptiles and Batrachians, it was left to T. H. Huxley to demonstrate, not merely that the weight of facts demanded such a class separation, but that the Reptiles hold the same relation to Birds as the Batrachians to Fishes. In his Hunterian Lectures (1863) he divided the vertebrates into Mammals, Sauroids, and Ichthyoids, subsequently substituting for the last two the terms Sauropsida and Ichtliyopsida@@7 The
@@@1    Sy sterna Reptilium, Vienna, 1843, 8vo.
@@@2    The author of the article Amphibia in the present work (vol. i. p. 750) states that Gunther, like Dumeril and Bibron, in his Catalogue, in substance, adopts Brongniart’s “ arrangement. ” There is no foundation whatever for this statement, the relation of the Batrachians to the class of Reptiles not being even alluded to in that work. In a later division of the Reptilia by Gunther (Phil. Trans., 1867) the Batrachians are likewise excluded.
@@@3    Entwicklungsgcschichte der Thiere, p. 262.
@@@4    Tiedemann’s Zeitschrift fur Physiologie, vol. iv. p. 200.
@@@5    Siebold and Stannius, Handbuch der Zootomie—Zootomie der Amphibien,, 2d ed. Berlin, 1856, 8vo.
@@@6    “Contribution to the Anatomy of Ilatteria (Rhynchocephalus, Owen),” in Phil. Trans., 1867, part ii.
@@@7    An Introduction to the Classification of Animals, London, 1869, 8vo, pp. 104 sq.
Sauropsida contain the two classes of Birds and Reptiles, the Icluhyopsida those of Batrachians and Fishes. The position thus assigned to Reptiles in the system is now adopted by the majority of zoologists.
R. Owen, while fully appreciating the value of the osteological characters on which Huxley based his division, yet admitted into his consideration those taken from the organs of circulation and respiration, and reverted to Latreille’s division of warm- and cold-blooded (haematothermal and haematocryal) vertebrates, thus approximating the Batrachians to Reptiles, and separating them from Birds. He says@@1 —
“Although the Arcs and Mammalia agree as hot-blooded vertebrates in their higher cerebral development and in the more complex heart and lungs, Birds, by genetic and developmental characters as well as by the general plan of their organization, are more intimately and naturally allied to the Oviparous Saurian s than to the Viviparous Mammals. In their generation and development modern Batrachians differ from other cold-blooded air-breathers, and agree with Fishes. Present knowledge of extinct forms more clearly exposes the artificial nature of the primary groups of the oviparous vertebrates. An important link, the Ptcrosauria, or Flying Reptiles, with wings and air-sacs, more closely connecting Birds with the actual remnant of the Reptilian class, has passed away. Other extinct orders (Ganoeephala and Labyrintliodontia) have demonstrated the artificial nature of the distinction between Fishes and Reptiles, and the close transitions that connect together ail the cold-blooded Vertebrates.”
The Reptiles (or Monopnoa, Leuck.), then, form the highest of the five sub-classes into which, after several previous classifications, Owen@@2 finally divides the Hxmatocrya. The sub-class is composed of the following nine orders :—
a.    Ichtiiyo pterygia (extinct)—Ichthyosaurus.
b.    Sauropterygia (extinct)—Plesiosaurus, Pliosaurus, Notho-
saurus, Placodus.
c.    Anomodontia (extinct)—Dicynodon, llhynchosaurus, Oudcn-
odon.
d.    Chelonia.
e.    Lacertilia (with the extinct Mosasaurus).
f.    Ophidia.
g.    Crocodilia (with the extinct Teleosaurus and Streptospon-
dylus).
h.    Dinosauria (extinct)—Iguanodon, Scelidosaurus, and Megalo·
saurus.
i.    Pterosauria (extinct) — JDimorphodon, Rhamphorhynchus,
and Ptcrodactylus.
As this ordinal arrangement deals in a uniform measure with extinct as well as living Reptiles, it is more complete than, and marks as great a progress in the history of herpetology as, any of the classifications recorded hitherto.
The study of fossil Reptiles had been continued after Cuvier by many workers, as Goldfuss, E. Geoffroy St Hilaire, Harlan, Mantell, G. F. Jäger, Phillips, Leidy, Falconer, Cautley, Alton, Bronn, Kaup, Quenstedt, and especially H. von Meyer, who devoted the whole of his extra-official time to drawing with his own hand numerous treasures preserved in Continental collections. But none contributed more to the knowledge of fossil Reptiles than Owen himself. Indefatigable in collecting materials, and able to bring to bear upon the subject an unsurpassed knowledge ranging over the whole field of comparative anatomy, he was unrivalled in elucidating the affinities of fossil remains as well as in the production of graphic descriptions. He showed that the number of living Reptilian types bears but a small proportion to that of extinct forms, and, therefore, that a systematic arrangement of the entire class must be chiefly based upon dental and osteological characters.
In this he was followed by Huxley and CorE who, however, have restricted still more the selection of classi-ficatory characters by relying for the purposes of arrangement on a few parts of the skeleton only. This is a matter of necessity in dealing with fossil remains, but a
tendency has thereby been fostered in our times of applying the same principles in the subdivision of living Reptiles to the greater or less exclusion of the consideration of other parts of their organization.
Huxley and Cope attempted a further grouping of the orders which in Owen’s system were merely serially enumerated as cosubordinate groups. Huxley used for 1 this purpose almost exclusively the position and character of the rib-articulations to the vertebral centre, the orders themselves being the same as in Owen’s system :—
A.    PLEUR.OSPONDYLIA. Dorsal vertebrae devoid of transverse
processes and not movable upon one another, nor are the ribs
movable upon the vertebrae. A plastron. Order 1, Chelonia.
B.    The dorsal vertebrae (which have either complete or rudiment
ary transverse processes) are movable upon one another, and
the ribs upon them. No plastron.
a.    The dorsal vertebrae have transverse processes which are
either entire or very imperfectly divided into terminal facets (Erpetospoxdylia).
a. Transverse processes long; limbs, well developed, paddles ; sternum and sternal ribs absent or rudimentary. Order 2, Flesiosauria (= Sauropterygia, Ow.).
p. Transverse processes short.
aa. A pectoral arch and urinary bladder. Order 3, Lacertilia.
bb. No pectoral arch and no urinary bladder. Order 4, Opiiidia. ־
b.    The dorsal vertebrae have double tubercles in place of trans
verse processes (Perospondylia).    Limbs paddle-sliaped.
Order 5, Ichthyosauria ( = Ichthyoptcrygia, Ow.).
c.    The anterior dorsal vertebrae have elongated and divided
transverse processes, the tubercular being longer than the capitular division (Suchospondylia).
a. Only two vertebrae in the sacrum. Order 6, Crocodilia.
p. More than two vertebrae in the sacrum.
aa. Manus without a prolonged ulnar digit.
aa. Hind-limb Saurian. Order 7, Dicynodon-tia ( = Anomodontia, Ow.).
PP. Hind-limb Ornithic. Order 8, Ornitho-scelida ( — Dinosauria, Ow.). bb. Manus with an extremely long ulnar digit. Order 9, Pterosauria.
Finally, Cope,@@3 by combining the modifications of tlie quadrate and supporting bones with the characters used by Huxley further developed Owen’s classification, separating the Pythonomorpha and Rhynchocephalia as distinct orders from the Lacertilia. Whenever practicable he was guided in his nomenclature by priority. The following is an abstract of his classification :—■
I. Extremities beyond proximal segment not differentiated
to form.
Order 1. Iciithyopterygia (Ow.).
II. Extremities differentiated.
A.    Streptostylica (Stann.).
Order 2. Lacertilia.
Order 3. Pythonomorpha (Cope).
Order 4. Opiiidia.
B.    Synaptosauria (Cope).
Order 5. Rhynchocephalia (Gtln־.).
Order 6. Testudinata.
Order 7. Sauropterygia (Ow.).
C.    Archosauria (Cope).
Order 8. Anomodontia (Ow.).
Order 9. Dinosauria (Ow.).
Order 10. Crocodilia (Ow.).
Order 11. Ornitiiosauria (Fitz.).
The most recent general work on Reptiles is from the pen of Dr C. K. Hoffmann, and appears since the year 1879 in Brown’s Klassen und Ordnungen des Thierreichs. The author treats with predilection the parts which relate to the anatomy of Reptiles, and which will prove to be of the greatest help to the student; each chapter is preceded by a list of the most important publications. The systematic part is composed with less critical discernment, and its usefulness for scientific purposes will scarcely be
@@@1 Anatomy of Vertebrates, London, 1866, 8vo, vol. i. p. 6. @@@s On. cit.. T). 16.
@@@3 Proc. Amer. Assoc, for the Advancement of Science, 19th meeting, Cambridge, 1871, 8vo, pp. 230 sq.
commensurate with the amount of labour bestowed on its compilation.
b. Special Systematic Works.
After having followed the general history of herpetology to the present period, we have to mention the works by which our knowledge of certain orders or of the various Reptilian faunas has been specially advanced.
Crocodilia and Lacertilia.—We have already shown that the animals of these two orders were by the earlier authors thrown together in one group, of which a natural subdivision into families was attempted by Oppel and Cuvier, that Merrem (1820) was the first to recognize in the Crocodiles a separate group for which he proposed the name of Loricata, being followed therein by Blainville, who named the group Emydo-sauriens, and that Latreille actually recognized their affinities to the Chelonians, uniting them under the name of Cataphracta. In Wagler’s and Fitzinger’s systems a distinct advance is manifested by the employment of the tongue and also of the dentition as important characters. These, combined with the scutellation, the form of the toes, and the entire habitus, ■were also the characters on which the subsequent classifications by Wiegmann, Dumeril and Bibron, Gray, and Stannius were based, the classifications varying according to the manner in which those characters are subordinated to one another. But, while the German and English herpetologists assign to the Amphisbsenians, Chamoeleons, and Crocodiles a rank more or less above, and distant from, the Lacertilian families, Dumeril and Bibron take a singularly retrograde step in dividing Lizards into eight equivalent families, of which the first comprises the Crocodiles, and the second the Chanrue-leons, the Amphisbsenians forming part of the family Chalcididae. Gray was the last who dared to place the narrow-mouthed Snakes such as Typhlops and Rhinophis among Lizai’ds.
In the two most recent classifications of the families of Lizards osteological (or rather craniological) characters supersede almost entirely those previously employed. Cope,@@1 wdio had led the way in this direction, still allows subordinal value to the dentition as well as to the form of the tongue, as may be seen from the following scheme:—
Suborder 1. Rhiptoglossa.
Fain. 1. Chamxleontidx.
Suborder 2. Pachyglossa.
Fam. 2. Agamidx.
Suborder 3. Nyctisaura.
Fam. 3. Gccconidx.
Suborder 4. Pleurodonta.
a.    Iguania.
Fam. 4, A nolidx; 5, Iguanidx.
b.    Diploglossa.
Fam. 6, Anguidx; 7, Gerrhonotidx ; 8, Xcnosauridx; 9, Ilclodcrrnidx.
c.    Thecaglossa.
Fam. 10. Varanidx.
d.    Leptoglossa.
Fam. 11, Teiidx; 12, Lacertidx ; 13, Zonuridx; 14, Chal-cididx; 15, Scincidx; 16, Sepsidx.
e.    Typhlophthalnii.
Fam. 17, Anelytropidx; 18, Acontiidx ; 19, Aniellid¿e.
Suborder 5. Ophiosauri.
Fam. 20, Amphisbxnidx ; 21, Trogonophidx.
Finally, whilst adopting in principle Cope’s classification, G. A. Boulenger,@@2 partly by extending his examination on types not seen by Cope, partly by differently valuing the various craniological characters, introduced considerable modifications:—
@@@1    Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1864, pp. 224 sq., and Proc. Amer. Assoc, for the Advancement of Science, 1870 (1871), pp. 236 sq.
@@@2    For an outline of bis classification consult Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Aug. 1884, or Catalogue of Lizards, vol. i., 1885, p. 1.
Suborder 1. Lacertilia vera.
A.    Tongue smooth or with villose papillae ; clavicle dilated,
loop-shaped proximally ; no postorbital or postfronto-
sqtiamosal arches.
Fam. 1, Geckonidx ; 2, Eublcpliaridx.
B.    Tongue smooth or with villose papillae ; clavicle not dilated
proximally.
Fam. 3, Uroplatidx ; 4, Pygopodidx ; 5, Agamidx ; 6, Iguanidx ; 7, Xcnosauridx ; 8, Zonuridx ; 9, Anguidx ; 10, Aniellidx ; 11, Ileloderrnatidx ; 12, Varanidx.
C.    Tongue covered with imbricate, scale-like papillae or with
oblique plicae ; clavicle dilated proximally, frequently
loop-shaped.
Fam. 13, Xantusiidx ; 14, Tciidx; 15, Amphisbxnidx ; 16, Lacertidx■, 17, Gerrhosauridx ; 18, Scincidx ; 19, Anelytropidx ; 20, Dibamidx.
Suborder 2. Rhiptoglossa.
Fam. 21. Chamxleontidx.
The principal works to be consulted by the student of recent Crocodilians are the following :—
Cuvier, Ossemens fossiles, vol. v. part 2 (1824) ; Geoffroy St Hilaire, “Descriptions des Crocodiles du Nil,” in Mém. deVInstitut d'Égypte (1813) ; Dumeril and Bibron, Erpétologie générale, Paris, 8vo, vols. ii., iii. (1835-36) ; Huxley, “On the dermal armour of Jacare and Caiman, with notes on the generic and specific characters of recent Crocodilia,” in Jour. Proc. Linn. Soc., Zoology, vol. iv. pp. 1-28 (1860) ; Brühl, Das Skelett der Krokodiliner, dargestellt in 20 Tafeln (1862) ; Strauch, “ Synopsis der gegenwärtig lebenden Crocodiliden,” in Mém. Acad. St Pétersburg, vol. x. (1866) ; Rathke, Untersuchungen über die Entwickelung und den Körperbau der Crocodile, Brunswick, 4to (1866) ; Gray, Catalogue of Shield-Reptiles in the Collection of the British Museum,—part ii., Emydo-saurians, lihynchoceplialia, and Amphisbsenians, London, 4to (1872) ; Parker, On the Structure and Development of the Sktill in the Crocodiles, London, 4to (1883).
The principal special works to be consulted by the student of recent Lacertilians are the following :—
Wiegmann, Hcrpetologia mexicana,—Pars 1, Saurorum species amplectens, Berlin, fol. (1834) ; Dumeril and Bibron, Erpétologie générale, Paris, 8vo, vols. 2-5 (1836-39) ; Gray, Catalogue of the Specimens of Lizards in tlx Collection of the British Museum, London, 16mo (1845) ; Brücke, Beiträge zur vergleichenden Anatomie und Physiologie des Gefäss-Systems der Amphibien, Vienna, 4to (1852); Rathke, Ucbcr den Bau und die Entwicklung des Brustbeins der Saurier (1854) ; Fritsch, Zur vergleichenden Anatomie des Amphibien-Herzens, Berlin, 8vo (1869); Fürbringer, Die Knochen icnd Muskeln der Extremitäten bei den schlangenähnlichen Sauriern, Leipsie, 4to (1870) ; Braun, Das Urogenitalsystem der einheimischen Reptilien, Würzburg, 8vo (1877) ; Parker, On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Lacertilia, (1879) ; Boulenger, Catalogue of the Lizards in the British Museum, 2d edition, London, 8vo (vol. i. in progress, 1885).
In a short sketch like the present it would be impossible to refer even to a small part only of the immense number of contributions by ־which our knowledge of Lizards has been advanced within the last forty years, either by adding to that of species previously imperfectly known, or by describing new generic and specific forms. But an idea of this increase may be formed by a comparison of Gray’s and Boulenger’s catalogues ; whilst the former enumerated 186 species out of the families Geckonidx and Agamidx, Boulenger describes not less than 490 belonging to the same groups.
Ophidia.—We have already mentioned that in Oppel’s system (1811) the first step is taken towards a natural classification of Snakes. Neither C. Duméril nor Merrem, Fitzinger nor Wagler, indicated the way towards a more natural arrangement ; it seemed almost as if with the increase of the number of distinct genera their arrangement became more and more hopeless. In the meantime the Rijks Museum of Leyden had enriched itself under the able direction of Temminck, through the efforts of traveller-naturalists like Reinwardt, Kuhl, Van Hasselt, Boie, and Siebold from the Dutch colonies in the East and West Indies, with materials fairly rivalling those accumulated in Paris. They were at first studied by the brothers ! Friederich Boie and Heinrich Boie, who well characterized
