and pictures. Although a devout student of the Shastras, he advocated female education and social reform. Refusing to cross the sea and so break caste by appearing before a parliamentary commission, he yet preached religious toleration. A patron of the Indian Congress, he borrowed from the armoury of British administration every reform which he introduced into the native states. He was respected alike by Europeans md natives, and received titles and honours from the British government. As tutor of the maharaja of Travancore, and then as revenue officer in that state, he showed firmness and ability, and became diwan or prime minister in 1857; He found the finances disorganized, and trade cramped by monopolies and oppressive duties. He co-operated with the Madras government in carrying out reforms, and when his measures led to misunderstandings with the maharaja, he preferred honourable resignation to retention of a lucrative office in which tie was powerless for good. In 1872 he was engaged at Indore n laying down a plan of reform and of public works which he jequeathed to his successor, when a grave crisis at Baroda demanded his talents there. The Gaekwar had been deposed :or scandalous misrule, and an entire reorganization was needed. \ided by Sir Philip Melvill, Madhava Rao swept away the rorrupt officials, privileged sirdars and grasping contractors vho had long ruined Baroda. He wrote able minutes defending :he rights and privileges of the Gaekwar from fancied encroach-nent, and justifying the internal reforms which he introduced. Hie resigned office in 1882, and in his retirement devoted his leisure to reading and writing upon political and social questions. He died on the 4th of April 1891.
RAOUL DE CAMBRAI, the name of a French chanson dc icste. The existing romance is a 13th-century recension of a joem by a trouvère of Laon called Bertholais, who professed :o have witnessed the events he described. It presents, like :he other provincial geste of Garin le Loherain, a picture of the devastation caused by the private wars of the feudal chiefs. \ parallel narrative, obviously inspired by popular poetry, is ^reserved in the chronicle of Waulsort (ed. Achery, Spicilegium, i. p. 100 seq.), and probably corresponds with the earlier recension. Raoul de Cambrai, the posthumous son of Raoul Taillefer, :ount of Cambrai, by his wife Alais, sister of King Louis [d’Outre-Mer), whose father’s lands had been given to another, demanded the fief of Vermandois, which was the natural in-ieritance-of the four sons of Herbert, lord of Vermandois. On Ring Louis’s refusal, he proceeded to war. The chief hero on :he Vermandois side was Bernier, a grandson, of Count Herbert, vho had been the squire and firm adherent of Raoul, until he vas driven into opposition by the fate of his mother, burned .vith the nuns in the church of Origny. Bernier eventually >lew the terrible Raoul in single fight, but in his turn was slain, ifter an apparent reconciliation, and the blood-feud descended o his sons. The date of these events is exactly ascertainable. Flodoard (Annales, Anno 943) states that Count Herbert died n that year, and was buried by his sons at St Quentin, that .vhen they learnt that Raoul, son of Raoul de Gouy, was about o invade their father’s territory, they attacked him and put dm to death. The identity of other of the personages of the itory has also been fixed from historical sources. The second )art of the poem, of which Bernier is the hero, is of later date, ind bears the character of a roman d’aventures.
See Li Romans de Raoul de Cambrai et de Bernier, ed. E. le Glay [Paris, 1840); Raoul de Cambrai, ed. P. Meyer and A. Longnon [Soc. des anc. textes fr.% Paris, 1882); J. M. Ludlow, Popular Epics >f the Middle Ages (London and Cambridge, 1865); H. Grôber, jrundriss d. roman. Phil. (ii. pp. 567 seq.).
RAOUL ROCHETTE, DÉSIRÉ (1790-1854), French archaeo-ogist, was bom on the 9th of March 1790 at St Amand in the iepartment of Cher, and received his education at Bourges, tie was made professor of history in the Collège de Louis-le-3rand at Paris (1813) and in the Sorbonne (1817). His Histoire critique de rétablissement des colonies grecques (4 vols., [815) is now out of date. He was superintendent of antiquities in the Bibliothèque at Paris (1819-48), and professor of archaeology at the Bibliothèque (from 1826), a result of which may be seen in his Cours d'archéologie (1828). In 1829 appeared his Monuments i)iédits} a work of great value at the time. Still valuable are his Peintures inédites (1836) and his Peintures de Pompêi(1844). He contributed to the Annali of the Roman Institute, the Journal des savants and the Académie des inscriptions. At his death on the 3rd of July 1854 Raoul Rochette was perpetual secretary of the Academy of Fine Arts and a corresponding member of most of the learned societies in Europe.
RAOULT, FRANÇOIS MARIE (1830-1901), French chemist, was born at Fournes, in the Département du Nord, on the 10th of May 1830. He became aspirant répétiteur at the lycée of Rheims in 1853, and after holding several intermediate positions was appointed in 1862 to the professorship of chemistry in Sens lycée, where he prepared the thesis on electromotive force which gained him his doctor’s degree at Paris in the following year. In 1867 he was put in charge of the chemistry classes at Grenoble, and three years later he succeeded to the chair of chemistry, which he held until his death on the 1st of April 1901. Raoult’s earliest researches were physical in character, being largely concerned with the phenomena of the voltaic cell, and later there was a period when more purely chemical questions engaged his attention. But his name is best known in connexion with the work on solutions, to which he devoted the last two decades of his life. His first paper on the depression of the freezing-points of liquids by the presence of substances dissolved in them was published in i878;and continued investigation and experiment with various solvents, such as benzene and acetic acid, in addition to water, led him' to believe in a simple relation between the molecular weights of the substances and the freezing-point of the solvent, which he expressed as the “ loi générale de la congélation,” that if one molecule of a substance be dissolved in 100 molecules of any given solvent, the temperature of solidification of the latter will be lowered by 0-63° C. (See, however, the article Solution.) .Another relation at which he worked was that the diminution in the vapour-pressure of a solvent, caused by dissolving a substance in it, is proportional to the molecular weight of the substance dissolved—at least when the solution is dilute. These two generalizations not only afforded a new method of determining the molecular weights of substances, but have also been utilized by J. H. van’t Hoff and W. Ostwald, among other chemists, in support of the hypothesis of electrolytic dissociation in solutions. An account of Raoult’s life and work was given by Professor van’t Hoff in a memorial lecture delivered before the London Chemical Society on the 26th of March 1902.
RAOUX, JEAN (1677-1734), French painter, was born at Montpellier in 1677. After the usual course of training he became a member of the Academy in 1717 as an historical painter. His reputation had been previously established by the credit of decorations executed during his three years in Italy on the palace of Giustiniani Sclini at Venice, and by some easel paintings, the Four Ages of Man (National Gallery), commissioned by the grand prior of Vendôme. To this latter class of subject Raoux devoted himself, nor did he even paint portraits except in character. The list of his works is a long series of sets of the Seasons, of the Hours, of the Elements, or of those scenes of amusement and gallantry in the representation of which he was immeasurably surpassed by his younger rival Watteau. After his stay in England (1720) he lived much in the Temple, where he decorated several rooms. He died in Paris in 1734. His best pupils were Chevalier and Montdidier. His works, of which there is a poor specimen in the Louvre, were much engraved by Poilly, Moyreau, Dupuis, &c.
RAPALLO, a seaport and winter resort of Liguria, Italy, in the province of Genoa. Pop. (1901) 5839 (town); 10,343 (commune). It occupies a beautiful and well-sheltered situation on the east side of the Gulf of Rapallo, i8£ m. E. by S. from Genoa by rail. It has a fine church, a medieval castle (now used as a prison) and a Roman Bridge, known as “ Hannibal’s Bridge.” On the hills above the town is situated the
