of birds; (2) C. leucocyanea, with a white instead of a red gular spot, a more Western form, ranging from Barbary to > Germany and Holland; (3) C. woifi, with its throat wholly blue—a form of comparatively rare occurrence. The first of these is a not infrequent, though very irregular, visitant to England, while the second has appeared there but seldom, and the third never, so far as is known. The redstarts with their allies mentioned in this article belong to the subfamily Turdinae of the thrushes (?.v.).
In America the name redstart has been bestowed upon a bird which has some curious outward resemblance, both in looks and manners, to that of the Old Country, though the two are in the opinion of some systematists nearly as widely separated from each other as truly Passerine birds well can be. The American redstart is Setophaga ruticüla, belonging to the purely New-World family Mniotiltidae, and to a genus which contains about a dozen species, ranging from Canada (in summer) to Bolivia.    (A. N.)
RED WING, a city and the county seat of Goodhue county, Minnesota, U.S.A., on the W. bank of the Mississippi river, near the head of Lake Pepin, about 40 m. S.E. of St Paul. Pop. (1905,state census) 8149, 2138 being foreign-born; (1910) 9048. It is served by the Chicago Great Western and the Chicago, Milwaukee & St Paul railways. Red Wing is the seat of the Lutheran Ladies* Seminary (1894) and the Red Wing Theological Seminary (Lutheran, 1885), and in the vicinity is the State Training School for Boys and Girls, originally the Minnesota State Reform School. In the city are the Carnegie-Lawther library, a Federal building, a municipal theatre, the T. B. Sheldon Memorial Auditorium, in connexion with .which is a School of Music, a Y.M.C.A. building, a City Hospital, St John’s Hospital (1902) and an old ladies* home. Red Wing is an important wheat market and shipping point.
In 1695 Le Sueur built a post on Prairie Island, in the Mississippi, about 8 m. above the site of Red Wing, for the purpose, according to Charlevoix, of interposing a barrier between the warring Dakotas and Chippewas; and in 1727 René Boucher built on the shore of Lake Pepin a fort which, after various vicissitudes, was abandoned in 1753. An Indian village occupied the site of Red Wing probably for many years before the arrival of the first whites, two Swiss missionaries, Samuel Denton and Daniel Gavin, who maintained a mission here in 1837-46. In 1848 another mission was established by the American Board. Red Wing (named from an Indian chief) was platted in 1853 and was chartered as a city in 1857.
REDWING (Swed. Rodvinge, Dan. Rôddrossel, Ger. Rol-drossel, Du. Koperwiek)> a species of thrush (q.v.)t Turdus tiiacus, which is an abundant winter visitor to the British Islands, arriving in autumn generally about the same time as the fieldfare (ç.v.) does. This bird has its common English name@@1 from the sides of its body, its inner wing-coverts and axillaries being of a bright reddish orange, of which colour, however, there is no appearance on the wing itself while the bird is at rest, and not much is ordinarily seen while it is in flight. In other respects it is very like a song-thrush, and indeed in France and some other countries it bears the name mauvis or mavis, often given to that species in some parts of Britain; but a conspicuous white streak over the eye at once affords a ready diagnosis. The redwing breeds in Iceland, in the subalpine and arctic districts of Norway, Sweden and Finland, and thence across Northern Russia and Siberia, becoming scarce to the eastward of the Yenisei, and not extending beyond Lake Baikal. In winter it visits the whole of Europe and North Africa, occa-
@@@1 Many old writers assert that this bird used to be known in England as the “ swinepipe but, except in books, this name does not seem to survive to the present day. There is no reason, however, to doubt that it was once in vogue, and the only question is how it may have arisen. If it has not been corrupted from the German Weindrossel or some other similar name, it may refer to the soft inward whistle which the bird often utters, resembling the sound of the. pipe used by the swineherds of old when collecting the animals under their charge. Another form of the word (which may, however, be erroneous) is “ windpipe.” “ Whindle ” and ” wheenerd ” have also been given as old English names of this bird (Harl. Miscellany, 1st ed., 11. p. 558), and these may be referred to the local German Weindrustle and WinseL
sionally reaching Madeira, while to the eastward it is found at that season in Persia, and, it is said, at times in the northwestern Himalayas and Kohat. Many writers have praised the song of this bird, comparing it with that of the nightingale (q.v.); but herein they seem to have been as much mistaken as in older times was Linnaeus, who according to S. Nilsson (Om. Suecica, i. 177, note), failed to distinguish in life this species from its commoner congener 7\ musicus. Its nest and eggs a good deal resemble those of the blackbird, and have none of the special characters which distinguish those of the song-thrush.    (A. N.)
REDWITZ, OSKAR, Freiherr von (1823-1891), German poet, was born at Lichtenau, near Ansbach, on the 28th of June 1823. Having studied at the universities of Munich and Erlangen, he was apprenticed to the law in the Bavarian State service (1846-49). He next (1849-50) studied languages and literature at Bonn, and in 1851 was appointed professor of aesthetics and of the history of literature at Vienna. In 1852, however, he gave up this post and retired to his estate of Schellcnberg, near Kaiserslautern. The pious sentimentality of his romantic epic Amaranth (1849; 42nd ed., 1898) had already gained him enthusiastic admirers, and this work was followed, in 1850, by Ein Märchen and by Gedichte (1852) and the tragedy Sieglinde (1854). He next settled on his estates near Kronach, and here wrote the tragedy Thomas Morus (1856), the historical dramas Philippine Welser (1859) and Der Zunftmeister von Nürnberg (i860), of which the first two met with great success. Elected member of the Bavarian Second Chamber for the district in which he lived, he removed to Munich in 1862. In 1868 he published the novel Hermann Stark> deutsches Lebeny and in 1871 Das Lied vom neuen deutschen Reich (which contains several hundred patriotic sonnets). In 1872 he took up his residence at Meran, but passed the last years of his life at a sanatorium for nervous disorders near Bayreuth, where he died on the 6th of July 1891.
See R. Prutz, Die deutsche Literatur der Gegenwart (1870), i. pp. 148 ff.; H. Keiter, Zeitgenössische katholische Dichter Deutschlands (1884); H. von Völderndorff, Harmlose Plaudereien eines alten Müncheners (1892); M. M. Rabenlechner, O. von Redwitz' religiöser Entwicklungsgang (1897).
REED, ANDREW (1787-1862), English nonconformist divine and philanthropist, was born in London on the 27th of November 1787. He entered Hackney Independent College in 1807 and was ordained minister of New Road Chapel in 1811. About 1830 he built the larger Wycliffe Chapel, where he remained until 1861. He visited America on a deputation to the Congregational Churches in 1834 and received the degree of D.D. from Yale. Reed’s name is permanently associated with a long list of philanthropic achievements, including the London Orphan Asylum, the Infant Orphan Asylum and the Reedham Orphanage, which he undertook on non-denomi-national lines because the governors of the other institutions had made the Anglican Catechism compulsory. Besides these he originated in 1847 an asylum for idiots at Highgate, afterwards moved to Earlswood in Surrey with a branch at Colchester, and in 1855 the Royal Hospital for Incurables at Putney. He died on the 25th of February 1862. Besides an account of his visit to America (2 vols., 1834), he compiled a hymn-book (1841), and published some sermons and books of devotion.
His second son, Sir Charles Reed (1819-1881), was a successful typefounder and a keen supporter of popular education. As a common councillor of the city of London he developed the Guildhall Library of the City of London School. He was elected M.P. for Hackney (1868 and 1874) and for St Ives, Cornwall (1880), and served as chairman of the London School Board (1873-1881) in succession to Lord Lawrence. He was interested in antiquarian research and in philanthropic work, being an associate of George Peabody and an active worker in connexion with the Sunday School Union, the Bible Society, the Religious Tract Society and the London Missionary Society. His eldest son, Charles Edward Baines Reed (1845-1884) was
