In the spring of 1663 Ray started together with Willughby and two other pupils on a tour through Europe, from which he returned in March 1666, parting from Willughhy at Montpellier, whence the latter continued his journey into Spain. He had previously in three different journeys (1658, 1661, 1662) travelled through the greater part of Great Britain, and selections from his private notes of these journeys were edited by George Scott in 1760, under the title of Mr Ray's Itineraries. Ray himself published an account of his foreign travel in 1673, entitled Observations topographical, moral, and physiological, made on a'Journey through part of the Low Countries ¡Germany, Italy, and France. From this tour Ray and Willughby returned laden with collections, on which they meant to base complete systematic descriptions of the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Willughhy undertook the former part, but, dying in 1672, left only an ornithology and ichthyology, in themselves vast, for Ray to edit; while the latter used the botanical collections for the groundwork of his Methodus plant arum nova (1682), and his great Historia generalis plantarum (3 vols., 1686, 1688, 1704). The plants gathered on his British tours had already been described in his Catalogas plantar um Angliae (1670), which work is the basis of all later English flotas.
In 1667 Ray was elected a fellow of the Royal Society, and in 1669 he published in conjunction with Willughby his first paper in the Philosophical Transactions on “ Experiments concerning the Motion of Sap in Trees.” They demonstrated the ascent of the sap through the wood of the tree, and supposed the sap to u precipitate a kind of white coagulum or jelly, which may be well conceived to be the part which every year between bark and tree turns to wood and of which the leaves and fruits are made.” Immediately after his admission into the Royal Society he was induced by Bishop John Wilkins to translate his Real Character into Latin, and it seems he actually completed a translation, which, however, remained in manuscript; his Methodus planiarum nova was in fact undertaken as a part of Wilkins’s great classificatory scheme.
In 1673 Ray married Margaret Oakley of Launton (Oxford); in 1676 he went to Sutton Coldfield, and in 1677 to Falborne Hall in Essex. Finally, in 1679, he removed to Black Notley, where he afterwards remained. His life there was quiet and uneventful, but embittered by bodily weakness and chronic sores. He occupied himself in writing hooks and in keeping up a wide scientific correspondence, and lived, in spite of his infirmities, to the age of seventy-six, dying at Black Notley on the 17th of January 1705. The Ray Society, for the publication of works on natural history, was founded in his honour in 1844.
Ray’s first book, the Catalogas planiarum circa Cantabrigiam nascentium (1660, followed by appendices in 1663 and 1685), was written in conjunction with his “ amicissimus et individuus comes,” John Nid. The plants, 626 in number, are enumerated alphabeti-:ally, but a system of classification differing little from Caspar Bauhin's is sketched at the end of the book; and the notes contain many curious references to other parts of natural history. The stations of the plants are minutely described; ^ and Cambridge students still gather some of their rarer plants in the copses or chalk-pits where he found them. The book shows signs of his indebtedness to Joachim Jung of Hamburg, who had died in 1657, leaving his writings unpublished; but a MS. copy of some of them was sent to Ray by- Samuel Hartlib in 1660. Jung invented or gave precision to many technical terms which Ray and others at once made use of in their descriptions, and which are rum classical; and bis notions of what constitutes a specific distinction and what characters are valueless as such seem to have been adopted with little change by Ray. The first two 'editions of the Catalogas planiarum Angliae (1670, 1677) were likewise arranged alphabetically; but in the Synopsis stirpium Britannicarum (1690, 1696, ilso re-edited by Dillenius, 1724, and by Hill, 1760) Ray applied the scheme of classification which he had by that time elaborated in the Methodus and the Historia planiarum. The Methodus plant-1 rum nova (1682) was largely based on the works of Caesalpinus md Jung, and still more on that of Robert Morison of Oxford. The greatest merit of this book is the use of the number of cotyledons is a basis of classification; though it must be remembered that the difference between the monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous embryo was detected by Nehemiah Grew. After dividing plants into flowerless and flowering, Ray says, ” Floríferas dividemus in Dicotyledones, quarum semina sata binis foliis anomalis, seminal-ibus dictis, quae cotyledonorum usum praestant, e terra exeunt, vel in binos saltern lobos dividuntur, quamvis eos supra terrem foliorum specie non efferunt; et Monocotyledones, quae nec folia bina ■ seminalia efferunt nec lobos binos condunt. Haec divisio ad arbores etiam extendi potest; siquidem Palmae et congeneres hoc respectu eodem modoa reliquis arboribus differunt quo Monocotyledones a reliquis herbis.” But a serious blemish was his persistent separation of trees from herbs, a distinction whose falsity had been exposed by J ung and others, but to which Ray tried to give scientific foundation by denying the existence of buds m the latter. At this time he based his classification, like Caesalpinus, chiefly upon the fruit, and he distinguished several natural groups, such as the grasses, Labia tae, Umbelliferae and Papilionaceae. The classification of the Methodus was extended and improved in the Historia planiarum, but was disfigured by a large class of Anomalae, to include forms that the other orders did not easily admit, and by the separation of the cereals from other grasses. This vast book enumerates and describes all the plants known to the author or described by his predecessors, to the number, according to Adanson, of 18,625 species. In the first volume a chapter “ De plant is in genere ” contains an account of all the anatomical and physiological knowledge of the time regarding plants, with the recent speculations and b discoveries of Caesalpinus, Grew, Malpighi and Jung; and Cuvier* and Du petit Thouars, declaring that it was this chapter which gave acceptance and authority to these authors’ works, say that “ the best monument that could be erected to the memory of Ray would be the republication of this part of his work separately.” The Stirpium Europaearum extra Britannias nascentium Sylloge (169^) is a much amplified edition of the catalogue of plants collected on his own^ European tour. In the preface to this book he first clearly admitted the doctrine of the sexuality of plants, which, however, he had no share in establishing. Here also begins his long controversy with Rivinus (Augustus Quirinus Bachmann) which chiefly turned upon Ray’s indefensible separation of ligneous from herbaceous plants, and also upon what he conceived to be the misleading reliance that Rivinus placed on the characters of the corolla. But in the second edition of his Methodus (1703) he followed Rivinus and J. P. de Tournefort in taking the flower instead of the fruit as his basis of classification: he was no longer a fructicist but a corollist.
Besides editing his friend^ Willughby’s books, Ra? wrote several zoological works of his own, including Synopsis methodica Animalium Quadrupedum et Serpentini Generis (1693), that is to say, both mammals and reptiles, and Synopsis methodica Avium et Piscium (1713); the latter was published posthumously, as was also the more importan Historia Insectorum (1710), which embodied a great mass of Willughby’s notes.
Most of Ray’s minor works were the outcome of his faculty for carefully amassing facts; for instance, his Collection of English Proverbs (1670), his Collection. of Out-of-the-way English Words (1674), his Collection of Curious Travels and Voyages (1693), and his Dictionariolum trilingüe (1675, 5th edition as Nomenclátor classicus, 1706). The last was written for the use of Willughby’s sons, his pupils; it passed through many editions, and is still useful for its careful identifications of plants and animals mentioned by Greek and Latin writers. But Ray’s influence and reputation have depended largely upon his two books entitled The Wisdom of God manifested in the Works of the Creation (1691), and Miscellaneous Discourses concerning the Dissolution and Changes> of the World (1692). The latter includes three essays on “ The Primitive Chaos and Creation of the World,” “ The General Deluge, its Causes and Effects,” and “ The Dissolution of the World and Future Conflagrations.” The germ of these works was contained in sermons preached long before in Cambridge. Both books obtained immediate popularity, and the former, at least, was translated into several languages. In The Wisdom of God, &c.t Ray recites innumerable examples of the perfection of organic mechanism, the multitude and variety of living creatures, the minuteness and usefulness of their parts, and many, if not most, of the familiar examples of purposive adaptation and design in nature w'ere suggested by him, such as the structure of the eye, the hollowness of the bones, the camel’s stomach and the hedgehog’s armour.
Authorities.—Select Remains, Itineraries and Life, by Dr Derham, edited by George Scott, 1740; notice by Sir j. E. Smith in Rees’s Cyclopaedia; notice by Cuvier and A. Dupetit Thouars in the Biographie universelle; all these were collected under the title Memorials of Ray, and edited (with the addition of a complete catalogue of his works) by Dr Edwin Lankester, Svo (Ray Society), 1846; Correspondence (with Willughby, Martin Lister, Dr Robinson, Petiver, Derham, Sir Hans Sloane and others), edited by Dr Derham, 1718; Selections, with additions, edited by Lankester (Ray Society), 1848. For accounts of Ray’s system of classification, see Cuvier, Leqons hist. s. Sci. Nat., p. 488; Sprengel, Gesch. d. Botanik, ii. p. 40; Sachs, Gesch. d. Botanik; also Whewell, Hist. Ind. Sci., iii. p. 332 (ed. 1847), and Wood, art. “ Classification ” in Rees’s Cyclopaedia.    (D. W. T.)
RAYAH (Arabic ra'iyah, peasants, subjects, flock, herd, ra'a, to pasture, cf. “ ryot,” an Indo-Persian variant of the same word), the name given to the non-Moslem subjects of a
