R THE twentieth letter in the Phoenician alphabet, the nineteenth in the numerical Greek, the seventeenth in the ordinary Greek and the Latin and (owing to the addition of J) the eighteenth in the English. Its earliest form in the Phoenician alphabet when written from right to left was thus resembling the symbol for D with one side of the triangle prolonged. In Aramaic and other Semitic scripts which were modified by opening the heads of the letters, the symbol in time became very much changed. Greek, however, maintained the original form with slight variations from place to place. Not infrequently in the Greek alphabets of Asia Minor and occasionally also in the West, R was written as D, thus introducing a confusion with D (9.0.). Elsewhere a short tail was added, as occasionally in the island of-Melos, in Attica and in western Greece, but nowhere does this seem to have been universal. The earliest Latin forms are exactly like the Greek. Thus in the very early inscriptions found in the Forum in 1899 R appears as ^ (from right to left), p and D (from left to right). Later the forms /? and R come in; sometimes the back is not quite connected in the middle to the upright, when the form R is produced. The name of the Semitic symbol is RSsh; why it was called by the Greeks Rho ({>ώ) is not clear. The h which accompanies r in the transliteration of Greek p, indicates that it was breathed, not voiced, in pronunciation. No consonant varies more in pronunciation than r. According to Brockelmann, the original Semitic r was probably a trilled r, ix. an r produced by allowing the tip of the tongue to vibrate behind the teeth while the upper surface of the tongue is pressed against the sockets of the teeth. The ordinary English r is also produced against the sockets of the teeth, but without trilling; another r, also untrilled, which is found in various parts of the south of England, is produced by turning up the tip of the tongue behind the sockets of the teeth till the tongue acquires something of a spoon shape. This, which is also common in the languages of modern India, is called the cerebral or cacuminal r, the former term, which has no meaning in this connexion, being only a bad translation of a Sanscrit term. The common German r is produced by vibrations of the uvula at the end of the soft palate, and hence is called the uvular r. There are also many other varieties of this sound. In many languages r is able to form syllables by itself, in the same way that /, mf n may do, as in the English brittle (britl), written (ritn). In Europe r with this value is most conspicuous in Slavonic languages like Bohemian (Czech) and Croatian; in English r in this function is replaced by a genuine vowel in words like mother (moftb). This syllabic r is first recorded for Sanscrit, where it is common, but is replaced in the languages descended from Sanscrit by r and a vowel or by a vowel only, according to the position in which it occurs. Most philologists arc of opinion that syllabic r existed also in the mother-tongue of the Indo-European languages. (P. Gi.)
RAABE, HEDWIG (1844-1905), German actress, was born in Magdeburg on the 3rd of December 1844, and at the age of fourteen was playing in the company of the Thalia theatre, Hamburg. In 1864 she joined the German Court theatre at St Petersburg, touring about Germany in the summer with such success that in 1868 she relinquished her Russian engagement to devote herself to starring. In 1871 she married Albert Niemann (b. 1831), the operatic tenor. She excelled in classical r61es like Marianne in Goethe’s Geschwistcr and Franziska in Minna von Barnhelm. It was she who first played Ibsen in Berlin. She died on the 21st of April 1905.
RAABE, WILHELM (1831-1910), German novelist, whose early works were published under the pseudonym of Jakob Corvinus, was bom at Eschershauscn in the duchy of Brunswick on the 8th of September 1831. He served apprenticeship at a bookseller’s in Magdeburg for four years (1849-1854); but tiring of the routine of business, studied philosophy at Berlin (1855-1857)· While a student at that university he published his first work, Die Chronik der Sperlingsgasse (1857), which at once attained to great popularity. Raabc next returned to Wolfenbuttel, and then lived (1862-1870) at Stuttgart, where he devoted himself entirely to authorship and wrote a number of novels and short stories; notably Unseres Herrgotts Kanzlei (1862); Der Hungerpastor (1864); Abu Telfan (1867) and Der Schiidderump (1870). In 1870 Raabe’ removed to Brunswick and published the narratives Horacker (1876)—perhaps his masterpiece; Das Odfeld (1889); Kloster Lugau (1894) and Hastenbeck (1899),and numerous other stories. The distinguishing characteristic of Raabe’s work is a genial humour which reminds us occasionally of Dickens; but this humour is often combined with a pessimism that is foreign to the English novelist.
Raabe’s Gesammelte ErzaMungen appeared in 4 vols. (1896-1900); there is no uniform edition of his larger novels. See P. Gerber, Wilhelm Raabe (1897); A. Otto, Wilhelm Raabe (1899); A. Bartels, Wilhelm Raabe: Vortrag (1901).
RABA BEN JOSEPH BEN QAMA (c. 280-352), Babylonian rabbi or amora. He is closely associated in his studies with Abaye. The latter was head of the Academy at Pumbeditha. Raba founded a new school at Maliuza, which eventually became so long as Raba lived the only academy in Babylonia (Persia). The development of Talmudic Law (or Halakhah) was much indebted to this rabbi, whose influence in all branches of Jewish learning was supreme. His friendship with the King Shapur II. enabled .Raba to secure a relaxation of the oppressive laws enacted against the Jews of Persia.
See Graetz, History of the Jews; (Eng. trans., vol. ii. ch. *xxi.); Bacher, Agada der BabyL Amor der, p. 108, &c. and 114-133.    (I. A.)
RABAH ZOBEIR (d. 1900), the conqueror of Bornu (an ancient sultanate on the western shores of Lake Chad, included since 1890 in British Nigeria), was a half-Arab, half-negro chieftain. He was originally a slave or follower of Zobeir Pasha (9.0.), and is said to have formed one of the party which served as escort to Miss Tinne (q.v.) in her journeys in the Bahr-el-Ghazal in 1862-64. In 1879, Zobeir being in Egypt, his son Suleiman and Rabah were in command of Zobeir’s forces in the Bahr-el-Ghazal. They persisted in slave-raiding, and denied the khedive’s authority, and Colonel C. G. Gordon sent against them Romolo Gessi Pasha. Gcssi captured Suleiman and routed Rabah, who in July 1879 fied westward with some seven hundred Bazingirs (black slave soldiers). He made himself master of Kreich and Dar Banda, countries to the south and south-west of Wadai. In 1884-85 he was invited by Mahommed Ahmed (the mahdi) to join him at Omdurman, but did not do so. According to one account he learnt that the mahdi intended, had he gone to Omdurman, to put him to death. In 1891 Paul Crampel, a French explorer, was killed in Dar Banda by a chieftain tributary to Rabah, and CrampePs stores, including 300 rifles, were sent to Rabah. With this reinforcement of arms he marched towards Wadai, but being stoutly opposed by the people of that country he turned west and established himself in Bag-irmi, a state south-east of Lake Chad. In 1893 Rabah overthrew the sultan of Bornu. In his administration of the country he showed considerable ability and a sense of public needs. To the British, represented by the Royal Niger Company, Rabah gave comparatively little trouble. During 1894-95 he continually (but unavailingly) asked the company’s representatives at Yola and Ibi to supply him with gunpowder. Rabah then tried threats, and in 1896 all communication between him and the company ceased. Early in 1897 he began an advance in the direction of Kano, the most important city in the Fula empire. The news of the crushing defeat by Sir George Goldie of the Fula at Bida, and of the capture of Illorin, induced
Rabah to return to Bornu. He gave the British no further trouble, but turned his attention to the French. Émile Gentil had in this same year (1897) reached Lake Chad, via the Congo and Bagirmi, and had installed a French resident with the sultan of Bagirmi. As soon as Gentil had withdrawn, Rabah again fell upon Bagirmi, and forced sultan and resident to flee. In 1899 the French sent an expedition to reconquer the country, but at first they were unsuccessful. In the summer of 1899 Rabah attacked and routed the French advanced post, held by Naval-Lieutenant Bretonnet, and the latter was killed. In October following another battle was fought, in which the French, under Captain Robillot, completely defeated Rabah, who retreated north-east towards Wadai. Gathering a fresh army, he returned to Bagirmi and joined issue with the French a third time. In a battle fought on the 22nd of April 1900 Rabah was slain and his host defeated. The chieftain’s head was cut off and taken to the French camp. In this engagement Major Lamy, the French commandant, also lost his life.
The French continued the campaign against Rabah’s sons, two of whom were killed. Rabah had left instructions that if his army was finally defeated by the French, his successor should return to Bornu and make friends with the British. Rabah’s third son, Fader-Allah, accordingly threw himself entirely upon British protection. He made a favourable impression, and it was contemplated to recognize him as sultan of Bornu. However, in the later part of 1901 Fader-Allah, who had 2500 riflemen, again made aggressive movements against the French. In retaliation, Captain Dangeville pursued him into British territory. A battle was fought at Gujba, Fader-Allah being defeated. He fled mortally wounded, and died the same night, being buried in the bed of a small river, the course of which had been diverted for the purpose.
Connected accounts of Rabah’s career are contained in É. Gentil's La Chute de l'empire de Rabah (Paris, 1902) and in M. von Oppenheim’s Rabehund das Tschadseegebiet (Berlin, 1902).    (F. R. C.)
RABAT (Ribàt)1 a city on the Atlantic coast of Morocco, in 340 3' N., 6° 46' W., 130 m. S. of Cape Spartel, on the southern side and at the mouth of the Bu Ragrag, which separates it from Salli on the northern bank. It is a commercial town of about 26,000 to 30,000 inhabitants, occupying a rocky plateau and surrounded by massive but dilapidated walls, strengthened by three forts on the seaward side. To the south of the town stands a modern palace, defended by earth-works and Krupp guns. The conspicuous feature in the view from the ocean is the Borj el Hasan, an unfinished square-built tower, 145 ft. high, built on an elevation about 65 ft. above the sea to the west of the walled town. At one time the Bu Ragrag afforded a much better harbour than it does now; the roadstead is quite unprotected, and there is a dangerous bar at the mouth of the river, which hampers the shipping, and makes the growth of trade slow. The depth of water over the bar varies from 7 to 12 ft. Rabat trades with Fez and the interior of Morocco, with the neighbouring coast towns and Gibraltar, and with Marseilles, Manchester and London, and is the greatest industrial centre in Morocco.
Rabat was founded by Yak'ub el Mansur in 1184, but Salli was then already an ancient city, and on the scarped hills to the west of Rabat stand the ruins of Sala, a Roman colony, known as Sheila. It contains a mausoleum of the Beni Marin dynasty.
RABAUT, PAUL (x718-1794), French pastor of “ the Church of the Desert ” (see Hugxjenots), was born at Bédarieux, near Montpellier, on the 29th of January 1718. In 1738 he was admitted as a preacher by the synod of Languedoc, and in
1740    he went to Lausanne to complete his studies in the seminary recently founded there by Antoine Court (q.v.). In 1741 Rabaut was placed at the head of the church of Nîmes, and in 1744 he was vice-president of the general synod. During the persecution of 1745-1752 Rabaut himself was obliged to hide. When the marquis of Paulmy d'Argenson was sent to Languedoc to make a military inspection, Rabaut succeeded in interviewing him (1750). For a time the persecution ceased, but it broke out again in 1753, a price being put upon Rabaut's head. Louis François de Bourbon, prince de Conti, interested himself in the Protestants in 1755, and in July Rabaut visited him. During the years 1755-1760 periods of persecution and toleration alternated. By the year 1760, however, the efforts of Antoine Court and P. Rabaut had been so successful that French Protestantism was well established and organized. Court de Gébelin, Paul Rabaut, and his son Saint-Étienne now exerted themselves to get it recognized by the law and government. When the people revolted, the minister Turgot in 1775 requested Rabaut to calm them. His success aroused the jealousy of his colleagues, who tried to undo the good work started by Antoine Court. But Rabaut persevered in his efforts to improve legally the position of the Protestants. In 1785, when he was visited by General La Fayette, it was arranged that Rabaut's son, Rabaut Saint-Étienne, should go to Paris on behalf of the Reformed Church. In November 1787 Louis XVI.'s edict of toleration was signed, though it was not registered until the 29th of January 1788. Two years later liberty of conscience was proclaimed by the National Assembly, of which Rabaut Saint-Étienne was chosen vice-president, and it was declared that non-Catholics might be admitted to all positions. After the fall of the Girondists, however, in which Rabaut Saint-Étienne was involved, Paul Rabaut, who had refused to renounce his title of pastor, was arrested, dragged to the citadel of Nîmes, and kept in prison seven weeks (1794). He died at Nîmes on the 25th of September 1794, soon after his release.
See J. Pons de Nîmes, Notice biographique sur Paul Rabaut (1808) ; Charles Dardier, Paul Rabaut1 ses lettres a Antoine Court (1884) and Paul Rabaut1 ses lettres à divers (1891).
RABAUT SAINT-ÉTIENNE, JEAN PAUL (1743-1793), French revolutionist, was born at Nîmes, the son of Paul Rabaut (q.v.), the additional surname of Saint-Étienne being assumed from a small property near Nîmes. Like his father, he became a pastor, and distinguished himself by his zeal for his co-religionists, working energetically to obtain the recognition of the civil rights which had been granted to them by Louis XVI. in 1788. Having gained a great reputation by his Histoire primitive de la Grèce, he was elected deputy to the States General in 1789 by the third estate of the bailliage of Nîmes. In the Constituent Assembly he worked on the framing of the constitution, spoke against the establishment of the republic, which he considered ridiculous, and voted for the suspensive veto, as likely to strengthen the position of the crown. In the Convention he sat among the Girondists, opposed the trial of Louis XVI., was a member of the commission of twelve, and was proscribed with his party. He remained in hiding for some time, but was ultimately discovered and guillotined on the 5th of December 1793.
See J. A. Dartique, Rabaut St-Étienne à l'Assemblée Constituante (Paris, 1903) ; and A. Lods, “ Correspondance de Rabaut St-Étienne ” in La Révolution française (1898), “ L’arrestation de Rabaut St Étienne ” in La Revolution française for 1903 (cf. the same review for 1901), and “ Les debuts de Rabaut St-Étienne aux États Généraux et à la Convention ” in the Bulletin historique de la Société de l'histoire du protestantisme français (1901), also an Essai sur la vie de Rabaut Saint-Étienne (1893) separately published. An edition of the Œuvres de Rabaut Saint-Étienne (2 vols., 1826) contains a notice by Collin de Plancy.
RABBA, a town of British West Africa, in the province of Nupe, Northern Nigeria, on the left bank of the Niger, in 90 6' N., and 200 m. above the confluence of the Niger and the Benue. At the time of Richard Lander’s visit in 1830 it was a place of 40,000 inhabitants and one of the most important markets in the country. In 1867 Gerhard Rohlfs found it with only 500 inhabitants. The town has somewhat recovered its position since the establishment of British rule in 1902.
RABBAH BAR NAHMANI (c. 270-c. 330), a Babylonian rabbi or amora (q.v.). He was for twenty-two years head of the Academy at Pumbeditha. His great dialectic skill acquired
for him the epithet “ uprooter of mountains.” The Talmud owes much to this rabbi. He is said to have perished in a jungle into which he had fled from the officers of the Persian king.
See Graetz, History of the Jews (Eng. trans.)( vol. ii. ch. xxi.; Bacher, Agada der Babyl. Amoraer, 97-101.    (1. A.)
RABBAN BAR SAUMA (fl. 1280-1288), Nestorian traveller and diplomatist, was born at Peking about the middle of the 13th century, of Uigur stock. While still young he started on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, and travelling by way of Tangut, Khotan, Kashgar, Talas in the Syr Daria valley, Khorasan, Maragha and Mosul, arrived at Ani in Armenia. Warnings of the danger of the routes to southern Syria turned him from his purpose; and his friend and fellow-pilgrim, Rabban Marcos, becoming Nestorian patriarch (as Mar Yaballaha III.) in 1281, suggested Bar Sauma’s name to Arghun Khan, sovereign of the Ilkhanate or Mongol-Persian realm, for a European embassy, then contemplated. The purpose of this was to conclude an anti-Moslem alliance, especially against the Mameluke power, with the chief states of Christendom. On this embassy Bar Sauma started in 1287, with Arghun’s letters to the Byzantine emperor, the pope and the kings of France and England. In Constantinople he had audience of Andronicus II.; he gives an enthusiastic description of St Sophia. He next travelled to Rome, where he visited St Peter’s, and had prolonged negotiations with the cardinals. The papacy being then vacant, a definite reply to his proposals was postponed, and Bar Sauma passed on to Paris, where he had audience of the king of France (Philip the Fair). In Gascony he apparently met the king of England (Edward I.) at a place which seems to be Bordeaux, but of which he speaks as the capital of Alangnltar (i.e. Angle-terre). On returning to Rome, he was cordially received by the newly elected pontiff Nicolas IV., who gave him communion on Palm Sunday, 1288, allowed him to celebrate his own Eucharist in the capital of Latin Christendom, commissioned him to visit the Christians of the East, and entrusted to him the tiara which he presented to Mar Yaballaha. His narrative is of unique interest as giving a picture of medieval Europe at the close of the Crusading period, painted by a keenly intelligent, broadminded and statesmanlike observer.
See J. B. Chabot’s translation and edition of the Histoire du Patriarche Mar Jabalaha III. et du moine Rabban Cauma (from the Syriac) in Revue de VOrient latint 1893, pp. 566-610; 1894, P.P· 73-I 43i 2^55-300; O. Raynaldus, Annates Ecclesiastici (continuation of Baromus), A.D. 1288, §§xxxv.-xxxvi. 11289, §lxi.; L. Wadding, Annales Minorum, v. 169, 196, 170-173; C. R. Beazley, Dawn of Modern Geography, ii. 15, 352; iii. 12, 189-190, 539-54*’
RABBET, in carpentry and masonry, the name for a rectangular groove or slot cut in the edge of a' piece of wood or stone, to which another corresponding piece can be fitted (see Joinery and Masonry). The word is an adaptation of the O. Fr. rabat or rabbat, from rabattrey i.e. abattrey beat back, abate, to make a recess, and is thus a doublet of “ rebate ” (g.r.), which is now frequently used instead of “ rabbet,” the joint being also known as a “ rebated joint.”
RABBI, a Hebrew word meaning “ my master,” “ my teacher.” It is derived from the adjective rab (in Aramaic, and frequently also in Hebrew, “ great ”), which acquired in modern Hebrew the signification of “lord,” in relation to servants or slaves, and of “ teacher,” “ master,” in relation to the disciple. The master was addressed by his pupils with the word rabbi (“ my teacher ”), or rabbcnu (“ our teacher ”). It became customary to speak of Moses as Moshe rabbenu (“our teacher Moses ”). Jesus makes it a reproach against the scribes that they cause themselves to be entitled by the people rabbi (£αββί, Matt, xxiii. 7): and He Himself is saluted by the disciples of John as rabbi (John i. 38, where the word is explained, as equivalent to διδάσκαλέ). As an honorary title of the scribes, with whose name it was constantly linked, “ Rabbi ” only came into use during the last decades of the second Temple. Hillel and Shammai, the contemporaries of Herod, were mentioned without any title. Gamaliel I., the grandson of Hillel, was the first to whose name the appellation Rabban (the same as rabbon, and also pronounced as ribbon, cf. Sovvl, Mark x. 51; John xx. 16) was prefixed. This title, a higher distinction than that of rabbi, is in tradition borne only by the descendants of Gamaliel I., the last being Gamaliel III., the son of Jehuda I. (Aboth ii. 2), and by JoJianan b. Zaccai, the founder of the school of Jamnia (Jabneh). Otherwise all Tannaites (see Tanna), the scholars of the Mishnah period, were distinguished by the title of “ rabbi.” The Jehuda I. mentioned above, the redactor of the Mishnah, was honoured as the “ Rabbi ” κατ' εξοχήν (“ par excellence ”), and in the tradition of the houses of learning, if it was necessary to-speak of him or to cite his opinions and utterances, he wr as simply referred to as “ Rabbi,” without the mention of any name. Scholars who were not definitely ordained—and among these were men of high distinction—wf ere simply mentioned by their names without the Rabbi-title. In the post-Talmudic age the Qaraites, who rejected the tradition of the Talmud, designated the Jewf s -who adhered to that tradition as Rabbanites. Similarly the term Rabbins, or Rabbis, is applied to modern Jewish clergy. The plural rabbanim was employed to describe the later Jewish scholars (so, for example, in the historian Abraham Ibn Daud, 12th century). By “rabbinical literature” is understood the post-Talmudic Jewish literature; in particular, so far as its subject is the literature of the tradition and its contents.
Rab became a proper name as the standing nomenclature of the celebrated amora, Abba Arika (q.v.).    (W. Ba.)
RABBIT, the modern name of the well-known rodent, formerly called (as it still is in English legal phraseology) Cony,@@1  a member of the family Leporidae (see Rodentia). Till recently the rabbit has generally been known scientifically as Lepus cuni-culns, but it is now frequently regarded, at least by systematic naturalists, as the representative of a genus by itself, under the name of Oryctolagus cuniculus. Some zoologists, indeed, include in the same genus the South African thick-tailed hare, but by others this is separated as Pronolagus crassicaudatns. From the hare the wild rabbit is distinguished externally by its smaller size, shorter ears and feet, the absence or reduction of the black patch at the tip of the ears, and its greyer colour. The skull is
@@1 There are no native names either in Teutonic or Celtic languages; such words as German Kaninchen or English cony are from the Latin cuniculus, while the Irish, Welsh and Gaelic are adaptations from English. " Rabbit/’ which is now the common name in English, was for long confined to the young of the cony, and so the Prompt-orium Parvulorum, c. iaio, " Rabet, yonge conye, cuniccllus.” The ultimate source of “ rabbit ” is itself unknown. The New English Dictionary takes it to be of northern French origin. There is a Walloon robett. Skeat suggests a possible connexion with Spanish rabot tail, rabcar, to wag tne hind-quarters. The familiar name for toasted cheese, ” Welsh rabbit/’ is merely a joke, and the alteration to " Welsh rare-bit ” is due to a failure to see the joke, such as it is. Parallels may be found in " Prairie oyster,” the yolk of an egg with vinegar, pepper, &c. added; or " Scotch woodcock,” a savoury of buttered eggs on anchovy toast.
very similar to that of the hare, but is smaller and lighter, with a slenderer muzzle and a longer and narrower palate. Besides these characters, the rabbit is separated from the hare by the fact that it brings forth its young naked, blind, and help-less; to compensate for this, it digs a deep burrow in the earth in which they are born and reared, while the young of the hare are born fully clothed with fur, and able to take care of themselves, in the shallow depression or "form” in which they are produced. The weight of the rabbit is from 2⅛ to 3 lbi  although wild individuals have been recorded up to more than 5 lb. Its general habits are too well known to need detailed description. It breeds from four to eight times a year, bringing forth each time from three to eight young; its period of gestation is about thirty days, and it is able to bear when six months old. It attains to an age of about seven or eight years.
The rabbit is believed to be a native of the western half of the Mediterranean basin, and still abounds in Spain, Sardinia, southern Italy, Sicily, Greece, Tunis and Algeria; and many of the islands adjoining these countries are overrun with these rodents. Thence it has spread, partly by man’s agency, north-wards throughout temperate western Europe, increasing rapidly wherever it gains a footing; and this extension is still going on, as is shown by the case of Scotland, where early in the 19th century rabbits were little known, while they are now found in all suitable localities up to the extreme north. It has also gained admittance into Ireland, and now abounds there as much as in England. Out of Europe the same extension of range has been going on. In New Zealand and Australia rabbits, introduced either for profit or sport, have increased to such an extent as to form one of the most serious pests that the farmers have to contend against, as the climate and soil suit them perfectly and their natural enemies are too few and too lowly organized to keep them within reasonable bounds. In North America about thirty species and twice as many geographic races (subspecies) are known, and the occurrence of several distinct fossil forms shows that the genus has long been established. The chief variety is the common grey or cottontail (Lepus floridanus). For the "jack-rabbit,” see Hare.
The rabbit has been domesticated from an early period. Little doubt exists amongst naturalists that all the varieties of the domestic animal are descended from Oryctotagus Cuniculus. The variations which have been perpetuated and intensified by artificial selection are, with the exception of those of the dog, greater than have been induced in any other mammal. For not only has the weight been more than quadrupled in some of the larger breeds, and the structure of the skull and other parts of the skeleton greatly altered, but the proportionate size of the brain has been reduced and the colour and texture of the fur altered in a remarkable manner. The lop-eared breed is the oldest English variety, and has been cultivated carefully since about 1785, the aim of the breeder being directed to the development of the size of the ears, and with such success that they sometimes measure more than 23 in. from tip to tip and exceed 6 in. in width. This development, which is accompanied by changes in the structure of the skull, depends on breeding the animals in warm damp hutches, without which the best developed parents fail to produce the desired offspring. In colour lop-eared rabbits vaιy greatly. The Belgian hare is a large breed of a hardy and prolific character, which closely resembles the hare in colour, and is not unlike it in form. Some years ago these rabbits were sold as " leporides ” or hybrids, produced by the union of the hare and the rabbit ; but the most careful experimenters have failed to obtain any such hybrid, and the naked immature condition in which young rabbits are born as compared with the clothed and highly developed young hare renders it unlikely that hybrids could be produced. Nor does the flesh of the Belgian rabbit resemble that of the hare in colour or flavour. A closely allied variety, though of larger size, is known as the Patagonian rabbit, although it has no relation to the country after which it is called.
The Angora rabbit is characterized by the extreme elongation and fineness of the fur, which in good specimens reaches 6 or 7 in. in length, requiring great care and frequent combing to prevent it. from becoming matted. The Angoras most valued are albinos, with pure white fur and pink eyes; in some parts of the Continent they are kept by the peasants and clipped regularly.
Amongst the breeds which are valued for the distribution of colour on the fur are the Himalayan and the Dutch. The former is white, but the whole of the extremities—viz. the nose, the ears, tail and feet—are black or very dark in colour. This very pretty breed has no connexion with the mountains from which it takes its name, but is a variety produced by careful breeding and selection. Though produced by crossing, it now generally breeds true to colour, at times, throwing back, however, to the silver greys from which it was derived. The rabbits known as Dutch are small, and valued for the disposition of the colour and markings. The entire body behind the shoulder-blades is uniformly coloured, with the excep-tion of the feet; the anterior part of the body, including the fore legs, neck, and jaws, is white, the cheeks and ears being coloured. In some strains the coloured portion extends in front of the fore legs, leaving only a ring of white round the neck. The more accurately the coloured portion is defined, the higher is the animal esteemed. The silver grey is a uniform-coloured breed, the fur of which is a rich chinchilla grey, varying in depth in the different strains. From the greater value of the fur, silver greys have been frequently employed to stock warrens, as they breed true to colour in the open if the ordinary wild rabbits are excluded. Other colours known, as silver fawn and silver brown, are closely related. A blue breed has been recently introduced. The largest and heaviest of all is the Flemish giant, with iron-grey fur above and white below. Other breeds include the Japanese, with an orange coat, broadly banded on the hind-quarters with black; the pink-eyed and short and thick-furred albino Polish; the Siberian, probably produced by crossing the Himalayan with the Angora; and the black-and-tan and blue-and-tan.
See also Hare, Shooting, and Coursing. (W. H. F.; R. L.*)
RABBLE, a general term for a disorderly crowd, apparently connected with the verb “ to rabble,” to talk or work in a confused manner, Du. rabbelen, Ger. dialect rabbeln, cf. Gr. ραβάσσαι׳, to howl. In iron and steel manufacture, a puddling-tool, for stirring the molten metal, is called a “ rabble.” This is a different word, adapted from Fr. râble, for roable, Med. Lat. rotabulum, Lat. rutabudum (ruere, to rake), a fire-shovel or oven rake.
RABBÜLA a distinguished bishop of the Syrian church early in the 5th century. He was a native of Kenneshrin,  a town some few miles south of Aleppo and the seat of a bishop-ric. His father was a heathen priest, and though his mother was a devoted Christian he continued in pagan belief and practice until some time after his marriage. During a journey to his country estates he was converted to Christianity partly through coming in contact with a case of miraculous healing and partly through the teaching and influence of Eusebius, bishop of Kenneshrin, and Acacius, bishop of Aleppo. With all the energy of his fiery nature he threw himself into the practice of Christian asceticism, sold all his possessions, and separated from his wife and kinspeople. He resided for some time in a monastery, and then passed to a life of greater hard-ship as a solitary hermit. On the death of Diogenes, bishop of Edessa, in the year 411-412, Rabbula was chosen his successor, and at once accepted the position offered him, without any of the customary show of reluctance. As a bishop he was marked by extraordinary energy, by the continued asceticism of his personal life, by his magnificent provision for all the poor and suffering in his diocese, by his care for discipline among the clergy and monks who were under his authority, and latterly by the fierce determination with which he combated all heresies and especially the growing school of the followers of Nestorius. On one occasion he visited Constantinople and there preached before Theodosius II. (who was then favourable to Nestorius) and a great congregation a sermon in denunciation of Nestorian doctrine, of which a portion survives in the Syriac version.@@1 He became the friend of Cyril of Alexandria, with whom he corresponded, and whose treatise De recta fide he translated into Syriac.@@2 After a busy episcopal life of twenty-four years he died in August 435, and was immensely lamented by the people of his diocese. His successor was the Nestorian Ibas.
The Literary remains of Rabbula are small in bulk, and are mostly to be found in Overbeck. Perhaps his main importance to the historian of Syriac literature lies in the zeal with which he strove to replace the Diatessaron or Gospel Harmony of Tatian by the edition of the separate Gospels, ordering that a copy of the latter should be placed in every church and should
@@@1 Overbeck, op. cit. pp. 239-244.
@@@2 The version survives in a British Museum MS.; see Wright’s Catalogue ρ. 719.
be read (see Wright’s Syr. Lit. p. 9). According to his biographer (Overbeck, p. 172) he himself produced a version (or revision) of the New Testament in Syriac. This may have been, as Wright suggests (Syr. Lit. p. 11), “a first step in the direction of the Philoxenian version.” But there is great probability in F. C. Burkitt’s hypothesis that the product of Rabbfcl&’s work, at least as regards the Gospels, is to be found in the current Peshltta text, which “ represents the Greek text as read in Antioch about 400 a.d.” and “ was prepared by Rab-bula . . . and published by his authority as a substitute for the Diatessaron.”@@ 1
Rabbula seems to have been a man of great force, devotion and self-denial: on the one hand intellectually gifted, and on the other thoroughly consistent in his practice of religion. But his attractiveness is marred, as in the case of many of his contemporaries, by the bitterness of a narrow orthodoxy.
(N. M.)
RABELAIS, FRANCOIS (c. 1490-1553), French humorist, was born at Chinon on the Vienne in the province of Touraine. The date of his birth is wholly uncertain: it has been put by tradition, and by authorities long subsequent to his death, as 1483, 1490, and 1495. There is nothing in the positive facts of his life which would not suit tolerably well with any of these dates; most 17th-century authorities give the earliest, and this also accords best with the age of the eldest of the Du Bellay brothers, with whom Rabelais was (perhaps) at school. In favour of the latest it is urged that, if Rabelais was born in 1483, he must have been forty-seven when he entered at Montpellier, and proportionately and unexpectedly old at other known periods of his life. In favour of the middle date, which has, as far as recent authorities are concerned, the weight of consent in its favour, the testimony of Guy Patin (1601-1672), a witness of some merit and not too far removed in point of time, is invoked. The only contribution which need be made here to the controversy is to point out that if Rabelais was born in 1483 he must have been an old man when he died, and that scarcely even tradition speaks of him as such.
With regard to his birth, parentage, youth, and education everything depends upon this tradition, and it is not until he was according to one extreme hypothesis thirty-six, according to the other extreme twenty-four, that we have solid testimony respecting him. In the year 1519, on the 5th of April, the Francois Rabelais of history emerges. The monks of Fontenay 1(^ Comte bought some property (half an inn in the town), and among their signatures to the deed of purchase is that of Francois Rabelais. Before this all is cloudland. It is said that he had four brothers and no sisters, that his fatner had a country property called La Deviniere, and was either an apothecary or a tavern-keeper. Half a century after his death De Thou mentions that the house in which he was born had become a tavern and then a tennis-court. It still stands at the corner of a street called the Rue de la Lamproie, and the tradition may be correct. An indistinct allusion of his own has been taken to mean that he was tonsured in childhood at seven or nine years old; and tradition says that he was sent to the convent of Seuilly. From Seuilly at an unknown date tradition takes him either to the university of Angers or to the convent school of La Baumette or La Basmette, founded by good King Rene in the neighbourhood of the Angevin capital. Here he is supposed to have been at school with the brothers Du Bellay, with Geoffroy d'Estissac and others. The next stage in this (so far as evidence goes, purely imaginary) career is the monastery of Fontenay le Comte, where, as has been seen, he is certainly found in 1519 holding a position sufficiently senior to sign deeds for the community, where he, probably in 1511, took priest’s orders, and where he also pursued, again certainly, the study of letters, and especially of Greek, with ardour. From this date, therefore, he becomes historically visible. The next certain intelligence which we have of Rabelais is somewhat more directly bio-
@@@l See S. Ephraim"s Quotations from the Gospel (Cambridge, 1901), p. 57 f.; Evanvelion du-Mepharreshe (Cambridge, 1904), ii. 5; and Early Eastern Christianity (London, 1904), lecture ii.
XXii. 25
graphical. The letters of the well-known Greek scholar Budaeus, two of which are addressed to Rabelais himself and several more to his friend and fellow-monk Pierre Amy, together with some notices by Andre Tiraqueau, a learned jurist, to whom Rabelais rather than his own learning has secured immortality, show beyond doubt what manner of life the future author of Gargantua led in his convent. The letters of Budaeus show that an attempt was made by the heads of the convent or the order to check the studious ardour of these Franciscans; but it failed, and there is no positive evidence of anything like actual persecution, the phrases in the letters of Budaeus being merely the usual exaggerated Ciceronianism of the Renaissance. Some books and papers were seized as suspicious, then given back as innocent; but Rabelais was in all probability disgusted with the cloister—indeed his great work shows this beyond doubt. In 1524, the year of the publication of Tiraqueau’s book above cited, his friend Geoffroy d’Estissac procured from Clement VII. an indult, licensing a change of order and of abode for Rabelais. From a Franciscan he became a Benedictine, and from Fontenay he moved to Maillezais, of which Geoffroy d’Estissac was bishop. But even this learned and hospitable retreat did not apparently satisfy Rabelais. In or before 1530 he left Maillezais, abandoned his Benedictine garb for that of a secular priest, and, as he himself puts it in his subsequent Supplicatio pro Apostasia to . Pope Paul III., “ per seculam diu vagatus fuit.” For a time the · Du Bellays provided him with an abode near their own chateau of Langey. He is met at Montpellier in the year just mentioned. He entered the faculty of medicine there on the 16th of September and became bachelor on the 1st of November, a remarkably short interval, whic showswhat was thought of his acquirements. Early in 1531 he lectured publicly on Galen and Hippocrates, while his more serious pursuits seem to have been chequered by acting in a morale comidie, then a very frequent university amusement. Visits to the lies d’Hieres, and the composition of a fish sauce in imitation of the ancient garum, which he sent    to his friend fitienne Dolet, are associated, not very certainly, with his stay at Montpellier, which, lasting rather more than a year at first, was renewed at intervals for several years.
In 1532, however, he had moved from Montpellier to Lyons. Here he plunged into manifold work, literary and professional. He was appointed before the beginning of November physician to the Hotel Dieu, with a salary of forty livres per annum, and lectured on anatomy with demonstrations from the human subject. He edited for Sebastian Gryphius, in the single year 1532, the medical Epistles of Giovanni Manardi, the Aphorisms of Hippocrates, with the Ars Parva of Galen, and an edition of two supposed Latin documents, which, however, happened unluckily to be forgeries.
At this time Lyons was the centre and to a great extent the headquarters of an unusually enlightened society, and indirectly it is clear that Rabelais became intimate with this society. A manuscript distich, which was found in the Toulouse library, deals with the death of an infant named Theodule, whose country was Lyons and his father Rabelais, but we know nothing more about the. matter. What makes the Lyons sojourn of the greatest real importance is that at this time probably appeared the beginnings of the work which was to make Rabelais immortal. It is necessary to say “probably,” because the strange uncertainty which rests on so much of his life and writings exists here also. There is no doubt that both Gargantua and Pantagruel were popular names of giants in the Middle Ages, though, curiously enough, no mention of the former in French literature much before Rabelais’s time has been traced. In 1526, however, Charles de Bordigne, in a satiric work of no great merit, entitled la Legende de Pierre Faifeu, has the name Gargantua with an allusion, and in 1532 (if not earlier) there appeared at Lyons les Grandes et inestimables chroniques du grand et enorme giant Gargantua. This is a short book on the plan of the later burlesques and romances of the Round Table. Arthur and Merlin appear with Grantgosier, as he is here spelt, Galemelle (Gargamelle), Gargantua himself,
and the terrible mare. But there is no trace of the action or other characters of Gargantua that was to be, nor is the manner of the piece in the least worthy of Rabelais. No one supposes that he wrote it, though it has been supposed that he edited it and that in reality it is older than 1532, and may be the direct subject of Bordigné’s allusion six years earlier. What does, however, seem probable is that the first book of Pantagruel (the second of the whole work) was composed with a definite view to this chap book and not to the existing first book of Gargantua, which was written afterwards, when Rabelais dis-■ covered the popularity of his work and felt that it ought to have some worthier starting-point than the Grandes chroniques. The earliest known and dated edition of Pantagruel is of 1533, of Gargantua 1535, though this would not be of itself conclusive, especially as we actually possess editions of both which, though undated, seem to be earlier. But the definite description of Gargantua in the title as “ Père de Pantagruel,” the omission of the words “ second livre ” in the title of the first book of Pantagruel while the second and third are duly entitled “ tiers ” and “ quart,” the remarkable fact that one of the most important personages, Friar John, is absent from book ii., the first of Pantagruel, though he appears in book i. {Gargantua), and many other proofs show the order of publication clearly , enough. There is also in existence a letter of Calvin, dated 1533, in which he speaks of Pantagruel, but not of Gargantua, as having been condemned as an obscene book. Besides this, 1533 saw the publication of an almanac, the first of a long series which exists only in titles and fragments, and of the amusing Prognostication Pantagrueline (still, be it observed, Pantagrueline, not Gargantuine). Both this and Pantagruel itself were published under the anagrammatic pseudonym of “ Alcofribas Nasier,” shortened to the first word only in the case of the Prognostication.
This busy and interesting period of Rabelais’s life was brought to a close apparently by his introduction or réintroduction to Jean du Bellay, who, in October 1533, passing through Lyons on an embassy to Rome, engaged Rabelais as physician. The visit did not last very long, but it left literary results in an edition of a description of Rome by Marliani, which Rabelais published in September 1534. It is also thought that the first edition of Gargantua may have appeared this year.
In the spring of 1535 the authorities of the Lyons hospital, considering that Rabelais had twice absented himself without leave, elected Pierre de Castel in his room; but the documents which exist do not seem to infer that any blame was thought due to him, and the appointment of his successor was once definitely postponed in case he should return. At the end of 1535 Rabelais once more accompanied Jean du Bellay, now a cardinal, to Rome and stayed there till April in the next year. This stay furnishes some biographical documents of importance in the shape of letters to Geoffroy d’Estissac, of the already-mentioned Supplicatio pro Apostasia, and of the bull of absolution which was the reply to it. This bull not only freed Rabelais from ecclesiastical censure, but gave him the right to return to the order of St Benedict when he chose, and to practise medicine. He took advantage of this bull and became a canon of St Maur. In 1537 he took his doctor’s degree at Montpellier, lectured on the Greek text of Hippocrates, and next year made a public anatomical demonstration. During these two years he seems to have resided either at Montpellier or at Lyons. But in 1539 he entered the service of Guillaume du Bellay-Langey, elder brother of Jean, and would appear to have been with him (he was governor of Piedmont) till his death on 9th January 1543. Rabelais wrote a panegyrical memoir of Guillaume, which is lost, and the year before saw the publication of an edition of Gargantua and Pantagruel, book i., together (both had been repeatedly reprinted separately), in which some dangerous expressions were cut away. Nothing at all is known of his fife, whereabouts, or occupations till the publication of the third book, which appeared in 1546, “avec privilège du roi,” which had been given in September 1545.
Up to this time Rabelais, despite the condemnation of the Sorbonne referred to above, had experienced nothing like persecution or difficulty. Even the spiteful or treacherous act of Dolet, who in 1542 reprinted the earlier form of the books which Rabelais had just slightly modified, seems to have done him no harm. But the storm of persecution which towards the end of the reign of Francis I. was fatal to Dolct himself and to Des Périers, while it exiled and virtually killed Marot, threatened him. There is no positive evidence of any measures taken or threatened against him; but it is certain that he passed nearly'the whole of 1546 and part of 1547 at Metz in Lorraine as physician to the town at the salary of 120 livres, and Sturm speaks of him as having been “cast out of France by the times ” (with the exclamation φβν των χρόνων) in a contemporary letter, and says that he himself in another letter gives a doleful account of his pecuniary affairs and asks for assistance. At Francis’s death on 31st March 1547 Du Bellay went to Rome, and at some time not certain Rabelais joined him. He was certainly there in February 1549, when he dates from Du Bellay’s palace a little account of the festivals given at Rome to celebrate the birth of the second son of Henry II. and Catherine de’ Medici. This account, the Sciomackie as it is called, is extant. In the same year a monk of Fontevrault, Gabriel du Puits-Herbault, made in a book called Theotimus the first of the many attacks on Rabelais. It is, however, as vague as it is violent, and it does not seem to have had any effect. Rabelais had indeed again made for himself protectors whom no clerical or Sorbonist jealousy could touch. The Sciomackie was written to the cardinal of Guise, whose family were all-powerful at court, and Rabelais dedicated his next book to Odet de Chatillon, afterwards cardinal, a man of great influence. Thus Rabelais was able to return to France, and in 1550 was presented to the livings of Meudon and St Christophe de Jambet. It may, however, surprise those who have been accustomed to hear him spoken of as “ curé de Meudon,” and who have read lives of him founded on legend, to find that there is very little ground for believing that he ever officiated or resided there. He certainly held the living but two years, resigning it in January 1552 along with his other benefice, and it is noteworthy that at the episcopal visitation of 1551 he was not present. To this supposed residence at Meudon and to the previous stay at Rome, however, are attached two of the most mischievous items of the legend, though fortunately two of the most easily refutable. It is said that Rabelais met and quarrelled with Joachim du Bellay the poet at Rome, and with Ronsard at Meudon and elsewhere, that .this cailsed a breach between him and the Pléiade, that he satirized its classicizing tendencies in the episode of the Limousin scholar, and that Ronsard after his death avenged himself by a libellous epitaph. The facts are these. Nothing is heard of the quarrel with Du Bellay or'of any meeting with him, nothing of the meetings and bickerings with Ronsard, till 1697, when Bernier tells the story without any authority. The supposed allusions to the Pléiade date from a time when Ronsard was a small boy, and are mainly borrowed from an earlier writer still, Geoffroy Tory. Lastly, the epitaph, read impartially, is not libellous at all, but simply takes up the vein of the opening scenes of Gargantua in reference to Gargantua’s author. There is indeed no reason to suppose that either Ronsard or Du Bellay was a fervent admirer of Rabelais, for they belonged to a very different literary school; but there is absolutely no evidence of any enmity between them, and Du' Bellay actually refers to Rabelais with admiration.
Some chapters of Rabelais’s fourth book had been published in 1548, but the whole did not appear till 1552. The Sorbonne censured it and the parliament suspended the sale, taking advantage of the king’s absence from Paris. But it was soon relieved of the suspension. He died, it is said, on the 9th of April 1553, but actual history is quite silent save on the point that he was not alive in May of the next year, and the legends about his deathbed utterances—“ La farce est jouée,” “ Je vais chercher un grand peut-être,” &c.— are altogether
apocryphal. The same may be said of the numerous silly stories told of his life, such as that of his procuring a free passage to Paris by inscribing packets “Poison for the king,” and so forth.
Ten years after the publication of the fourth book and nine after the supposed date of the author’s death there appeared at Lyons sixteen chapters entitled il'le sonnante par maistre Francois Rabelais, and two years later the entire fifth book was printed as such. In 1567 it took place with the others, and has ever since appeared with them. But from the beginning of the 17th century there have never been wanting disbelievers in its authenticity. The controversy is one of some intricacy, but as it is also one of capital importance in literary history the heads of it at least must be given here. The opponents of the book rely (1) on the testimony of a certain Louis Guyon, who in 1604 declared that the fifth book was made long after Rabelais’s death by an author whom he knew, and who was not a doctor, and on the assertion of the bibliographer Du Verdier, about the same time, that it was written by an “Scolier de Valence (2) on the fact that the anti-monastic and even anti-Catholic polemic is much more accentuated in it; (3) on the arguments that parts are apparently replicas or rough drafts of passages already appearing in the four earlier books; and (4) that some allusions are manifestly posterior to even the furthest date which can be assigned for the reputed author’s decease. On the other hand, it is urged that, though Guyon and Du Verdier were in a sense contemporaries, they wrote long after the events, and that the testimony of the former is vitiated, not merely by its extreme vagueness, but by the fact that it occurs in a piaidoyery tending to exculpate physicians from the charge of unorthodoxy; that Du Verdier in another place assigns the Pantagrucline Prognostication to this same unknown student of Valence, and had therefore probably confused and hearsay notions on the subject; that the rasher and fiercer tone, as well as the apparent repetitions, are sufficiently accounted for on the supposition that Rabelais never finally revised the book, which indeed dates show that he could not have done, as the fourth was not finally settled till just before his death; and that it is perfectly probable, and indeed almost certain, that it was prepared from his papers by another hand, which is responsible for the anachronous allusions above referred to. But the strongest argument, and one which has never been attacked by authorities really competent to judge, is that the “griffe de l’aigle” is on the book, and that no known author of the time except Rabelais was capable of writing the passage about the Chats fourres, the better part of the history of Queen Whims (La Quinte) and her court, and the conclusion giving the Oracle of the Bottle. To this argument we believe that the more competent a critic is, both by general faculty of appreciation and by acquaintance with contemporary French literature, the more positive will be the assent that he yields. The reader must, however, be on his guard against confusing the authenticity of the fifth book generally with that of supposed early copies of it. Quite recently it was announced that an edition of 1549 had turned up in Germany; but the investigations of M. R. Stein, tin Rabelais apocryphe (1901), repeated and confirmed by M. A. Lefranc in the Revue des tttides Rabclaisiennes (1905), disposed of the matter. The substance of the apocryphal document is quite different from our fifth book.
Gargantua and Pantagruel, notwithstanding their high literary standing and the frequency with which certain passages from them arc cited, are, owing partly to their archaism of language and partly to the extreme licence which their author has allowed himself, so little read that no notice of them or of him could be complete without some sketch of their contents. The first book, Gargantua, describes the birth of that hero (a giant and the son of gigantic parents), whose nativity is ushered in by the account of a tremendous feast. In this the burlesque exaggeration of the pleasures of eating and drinking, which is one of the chief exterior notes of the whole work, is pushed to an extreme—an extreme which has attracted natural but perhaps undue attention. Very early, however, the author becomes serious in contrasting the early
education of his hero—a satire on the degraded schools of the middle ages—with its subsequent and reformed stage, in the account of which all the best and noblest ideas of the humanist Renaissance in reference to pedagogy are put with exceptional force. Gargantua is recalled from Paris, whither he had been sent to finish his education, owing to a war between his father, Grandgosier, and the neighbouring king, Picrochole. This war is described at great length, the chief hero of it being the monk, Friar John, a very unclerical cleric, in whom Rabelais greatly delights. Picrochole defeated and peace made, Gargantua establishes the abbey of Thclcma in another of Rabelais’s most elaborate literary passages, where all the points most obnoxious to him in monastic life are indicated by the assignment of their exact opposites to this model convent. The second book, which introduces the principal hero of the whole, Pantagruel, Gargantua’s son, is, on any other hypothesis but that already suggested of its prior composition, very difficult to explain, but in itself it is intelligible enough. Pantagruel goes through something like a second edition (really a first) of the educational experiences of his father. Like him, he goes to Paris, and there meets with Panurge, the principal triumph of Rabelaisian character-drawing, and the most original as well as puzzling figure of the book. Panurgc has almost all intellectual accomplishments, but is totally devoid of morality: he is a coward, a drunkard, a lecher, a spiteful trickster, a spendthrift, but all the while infinitely amusing. This book, like the other, has a war in its latter part; Gargantua scarcely appears in it and Friar John not at all. It is not till the opening of the third book that the most important action begins. This arises from Panurge’s determination to marry—a determination, however, which is very half-hearted, and which leads him to consult a vast number of authorities, each giving occasion for satire of a more or less complicated kind. At last it is determined that Pantagruel and his followers (Friar John has reappeared in the suite of the prince) shall set sail to consult the Oracle of the Dive Bouteitle. The book ends with the obscurest passage of the whole, an elaborate^ eulogy of the "herb pantagruelion,” which appears to be, if it is anything, hemp. Only two probable explanations of this have been offered, the one seeing in it an anticipation of Joseph de Maistre’s glorification of the executioner, the other a eulogy of work, hemp being on the whole the most serviceable of vegetable products for that purpose. The fourth and fifth books are entirely taken up with a description of the voyage. Many strange places with^ stranger names are visited, some of them offering obvious satire on human institutions, others, except by the most far-fetched explanations, resolvable into nothing but sheer extravaganza. At last the Land of Lanterns, borrowed from Lucian, is reached, and the Oracle of the Bottle is consulted. This yields the single word "Trinq,” which the attendant priestess declares to be the most gracious and intelligible she has ever heard from it. Panurge takes this as a sanction of his marriage, and the book ends abruptly. This singular romance is diversified by, or, to speak more properly, it is the vehicle of the most bewildering abundance of digression, burlesque amplification, covert satire on things political, social and religious, miscellaneous erudition of the literary and scientific kind. Everywhere the author lays stress on the excellence of “ Pantagruelism,” and the reader who is himself a Pantagruelist (it is perfectly idle for any other to attempt the book) soon discovers what this means. It is, in plain English, humour. The definition of humour is a generally acknowledged crux, and till it is defined the definition of Pantagruelism will be in the same position. But that it consists in the extension of a wide sympathy to all human affairs, together with a comprehension of their vanity, may be said as safely as anything else. Moroseness and dogmatism are as far from the Pantagruelism of Rabelais as maudlin sentimentality or dilettantism. Perhaps the chief things lacking in his attitude are, in the first place, reverence, of which, however, from a few passages, it is dear he was by no means totally devoid, and secondly, an appreciation of passion and poetry. Here and there there are touches of the latter, as in the portrait of Quintessence, but passion is everywhere absent—an absence for which the comic structure and plan of the book do not by any means supply a complete explanation.
For a general estimate of Rabelais’s literary character and influence the reader may be referred to the article French Literature. But some detailed remarks must be given here. There are three questions without the discussion of which this notice of one of the foremost writers of the world would not be worthy of its present place. These are—What is the general drift and purpose of Gargantua and Pantagruel, supposing there to be any? What defence can be offered, if any defence is needed, for the extraordinary licence of language and imagery which the author has permitted himself? What was his attitude towards the great questions of religion, philosophy and politics? These questions succeed each other in the order of reason, and the answer to each assists the resolution of the next.
There have been few more remarkable instances of the lues commentatoria than the work of the editors of Rabelais. Almost every one appears to have started with a Rabelais ready made in his head, and to have, so to speak, read that Rabelais into the book. Those who have not done this, like Le Duchat, Motteux
and Esmangart, have generally committed the error of tormenting themselves and their author to find individual explanations of personages and events. The extravagance of the last-named commentator takes the form of seeing elaborate allegories; that of some others devotes itself chiefly to identifying the characters of the romance with more or less famous historical persons. But the first blunder, that of forming a general hypothetical conception of Rabelais and then adjusting interpretation of the work to it, is the commoner. This conception, however, has singularly varied. According to some expositors, among whom one of the latest and not the least respectable is M. Fleury, Rabelais is a sober reformer, an apostle of earnest work, of sound education, of rational if not dogmatic religion, who wraps up his morals in a farcical envelope partly to make them go down with the vulgar and partly to shield himself from the consequences of his reforming zeal. According to others, of whom we have had in England a distinguished example in Sir Walter Besant, Rabelais is all this but with a difference. He is not religious at all; he is more or less anti-religious; and his book is more or less of a general protest against any attempt to explain supernaturally the riddle of the earth. According to a third class, the most distinguished recent representative of which was M. Paul Lacroix, the Rabelaisian legend does not so much err in principle as it invents in fact. Rabelais is the incarnation of the “esprit Gaulois,” a jovial, careless soul, not destitute of common sense or. even acute intellectual power, but first of all a good fellow, rather preferring a broad jest to a fine-pointed one, and rollicking through life like a good-natured undergraduate. Of all these views it may be said that those who hold them are obliged to shut their eyes to many things in the book and to see in it many which are not there. The religious part of the matter will be dealt with presently ; but it is impossible to think that any unbiased judge reading Rabelais can hold the grave-philosopher view or the reckless-good-fellow view without mollifications and allowances which practically deprive either of any value. Those who, as it has been happily put, identify Rabelais with Pantagruel, strive in vain, on any view intellectually consistent or morally respectable, to account for the vast ocean of pure or impure laughter and foolery which surrounds the few solid islets of sense and reason and devotion. Those who in the same way identify Rabelais with Panurge can never explain the education scheme, the solemn apparition of Gargantua among the farcical and fantastic variations on Panurge's wedding, and many other passages; while, on the other hand, those who insist on a definite propaganda of any kind must justify themselves by their own power of seeing things invisible to plain men. But these vagaries are not only unjustifiable; they are entirely unnecessary. No one reading Rabelais without parti pris, but with a good knowledge of the history and literature of his own times and the times which preceded him, can have much difficulty in appreciating his book. He had evidently during his long and studious sojourn in the cloister (a sojourn which was certainly not less than five-and-twenty years, while it may have been five-and-thirty, and of which the studiousness rests not on legend but on documentary evidence) acquired a vast stock of learning. He was, it is clear, thoroughly penetrated with the instincts, the hopes, and the ideas of the Renaissance in the form which it took in France, in England and in Germany—a form, that is to say, not merely humanist but full of aspirations for social and political improvement, and above all for a joyous, varied, and non-ascetic life. He had thoroughly convinced himself of the abuses to which monachism lent itself. Lastly, he had the spirit of lively satire and of willingness desipere in loco which frequently goes with the love of books. It is in the highest degree improbable that in beginning his great work he had any definite purpose or intention. The habit of burlesquing the romans d'aventures was no new one, and the form lent itself easily to the two literary exercises to which he was most disposed— apt and quaint citation from and variation on the classics and satirical criticism of the life he saw around him. The immense popularity of the first two parts induced him to continue them, and by degrees (the genuineness of the fifth book, at any rate in substance, is here assumed) the possibility of giving the whole something like a consistent form and a regular conclusion presented itself to him. The voyage in particular allowed the widest licence of satirical allusion, and he availed himself of that licence in the widest sense. Here and there persons are glanced at, while the whole scenery of his birthplace and its neighbourhood is curiously worked in; but for the most part the satire is typical rather than individual, and it is on the whole a rather negative satire. In only two points can Rabelais be said to be definitely polemic. He certainly hated the monkish system in the debased form in which it existed in his time; he as certainly hated the brutish ignorance into which the earlier systems of education had suffered too many of their teachers and scholars to drop. At these two things he was never tired of striking, but elsewhere, even in the grim satire of the Chats fourrés, he is the satirist proper rather than the reformer. It is in the very absence of any cramping or limiting purpose that the great merit and value of the book consist. It holds up an almost perfectly level and spotless mirror to t the temper of the earlier Renaissance. The author has no universal medicine of his own (except Pantagruelism) to offer, nor has he anybody else's universal
medicine to attack. He ranges freely about the world, touching the laughable sides of things with kindly laughter, and every now and then dropping the risibile and taking to the rationale. It is not indeed possible to deny that in the Oracle of the Bottle, besides its merely jocular and fantastic sense, there is a certain “echo,” as it has been called, “of the conclusion of the preacher,” a certain acknowledgment of the vanity of things. But in such a book such a note could hardly be wanting unless the writer had been a fanatic, which he was not, or a mere voluptuary, which he was not, or a dullard, which he was least of all. It is, after all, little more than a suggestion, and is certainly not strengthened by anything in the body of the work. Rabelais is, in short, if he be read without prejudice, a humorist pure and simple, feeling often in earnest, thinking almost always in jest. He is distinguished from the two men who alone can be compared with him in character of work and force of genius combined—Lucian and Swift—by very marked characteristics. He is much less of a mere mocker than Lucian, and he is entirely destitute, even when he deals with monks or pedants, of the ferocity of Swift. He neither sneers nor rages; the rire immense which distinguishes him is altogether good-natured ; but he is nearer to Lucian than to Swift, and Lucian is perhaps the author whom it is most necessary to know in order to understand him rightly.
If this general view is correct it will probably condition to some extent the answer to be given to the two minor questions stated above. The first is connected with the great blemish of Gargantua and Pantagruel—their extreme coarseness of language and imagery. It is somewhat curious that some of those who claim Rabelais as an enemy of the supernatural in general have been the loudest to condemn this blemish, and that some of them have made the exceedingly lame excuse for him that it was a means of wrapping up his propaganda and keeping it and himself safe from the notice of the powers that were. This is not complimentary to Rabelais, and, except in some very small degree, it is not likely to be true. For as a matter of fact obscenity no less than impiety was charged against him by his ultra-orthodox enemies, and the obscenity no less than the supposed impiety gave them a handle against him before such bodies as the Sorbonne and the parliaments. As for the extreme theory of the anti-Rabelaisians, that Rabelais was a “dirty old blackguard” who liked filth and wallowed in it from choice, that hardly needs comment. His errors in this way are of course, looked at from an absolute standard, unpardonable. But judged relatively there are several, we shall not say excuses, but explanations of them. In the first place, the comparative indecency of Rabelais has been much exaggerated by persons unfamiliar with early French literature. The form of his book was above all things popular, and the popular French literature of the middle ages as distinguished from the courtly and literary literature, which was singularly pure, can hardly be exceeded in point of coarseness. The fabliaux, the early burlesque romances of the Audigier class, the farces of the 15th century, equal (the grotesque iteration and amplification which is the note of Gargantua and Pantagruel being allowed for, and sometimes without that allowance) the coarsest passages of Rabelais. His coarseness, moreover, disgusting as it is, has nothing of the corruption of refined voluptuousness about it, and nothing of the sniggering indecency which disgraces men like Pope, like Voltaire, and like Sterne. It shows in its author a want of reverence, a want of decency in the proper sense, a too great readiness to condescend to the easiest kina of ludicrous ideas and the kind most acceptable at that time to the common run of mankind. The general taste haying been considerably refined since, Rabelais has in parts become nearly unreadable—the worst and most appropriate punishment for his faults. As for those who have tried to make his indecency an argument for his laxity in religious principle, that argument, like another mentioned previously, hardly needs discussion. It is notoriously false as a matter of experience. Rabelais could not have written as he has written in this respect and in others if he had been an earnestly pious person, taking heed to every act and word, and studious equally not to offend and not to cause offence. But no one in his senses would dream of claiming any such character for him.
This brings us to the last point—what his religious opinions were. He has been claimed as a free-thinker of all shades, from undogmatic theism to atheism, and as a concealed Protestant. The last of these claims has now been very generally given up, and indeed Erasmus might quite as reasonably be claimed for the Reformation as Rabelais. Both disliked and attacked the more crying abuses of their church, and both at the time and since have been disliked and attacked by the more imprudent partisans of that church. But Rabelais, in his own way, held off from the Reformation even more distinctly than Erasmus did. The accusation of free-thinking, if not of directly anti-Christian thinking, has always been more common and has recently found much favour. It is, however, remarkable that those who hold this opinion never give chapter and verse for it, and it may be said confidently that chapter and verse cannot be given. The sayings attributed to Rabelais which colour the idea (such as the famous “Je vais chercher un grand peut-être,” said to have been uttered on his death-bed) are, as has been said, purely apocryphal. In the book itself nothing
of the kind is to be found. Perhaps the nearest approach to it is a jest at the Sorbonne couched in the Pauline phrase about " the evidence of things not seen,” which the author removed from the later editions. But irreverences of this kind, as well as the frequent burlesque citations of the Bible, whether commendable or not, had been, were, have since been, and are common in writers whose orthodoxy is unquestioned; and it must be remembered that the later Middle Age, which in many respects Rabelais represents almost more than he does the Renaissance, was, with all its unquestioning faith, singularly reckless and, to our fancy, irreverent in its use of the sacred words and images, which were to it the most familiar of all images and words. On the other hand, there are in the book, in the description of Gargantua’s and Pantagruel’s education, in the sketch of the abbey of Thelema, in several passages relating to Pantagruel, expressions which either signify a sincere and unfeigned piety of a simple kind or else are inventions of the most detestable hypocrisy. For these passages are not, like many to be found from the Renaissance to the end of the 18th century, obvious flags of truce to cover attacks—mere bowings in the house of Rimmon to prevent evil consequences. There is absolutely no sign of the tongue in the cheek. They are always written in the author’s highest style, a style perfectly eloquent and unaffected; they can only be interpreted (on the free-thinking hypothesis) as allegorical with the greatest difficulty and obscurity, and it is pretty certain that no one reading the book without a thesis to prove would dream of taking them in a non-natural sense. It is not, indeed, to be contended that Rabelais was a man with whom religion was in detail a constant thought, that he had a very tender conscience or a very scrupulous orthodoxy. His form of religious sentiment was not evangelical or mystical, any more than it was ascetic or ceremonial or dogmatic. As regards one of the accepted doctrines of his own church, the excellence of the celibate life, of poverty, and of elaborate obedience to a rule, he no doubt was a strong dissident; but the evidence that, as a Christian, he was unorthodox, that he was even a heretical or latitudinarian thinker in regard to those^ doctrines which the various Christian churches have in common, is not merely weak, it is practically nonexistent. The counter-testimony is, indeed, not very strong, and still less detailed. But that is not the point. It is sufficient to say that there is absolutely nothing within the covers of Rabelais's works incompatible with an orthodoxy which would be recognized as sufficient by Christendom at large, leaving out of the question those points of doctrine and practice on which Christians differ. Beyond this no wise man will go, and short of it hardly any unprejudiced man will stop.
Bibliography.—The dates of the original editions of Rabelais’s works have been given where possible already. The earlier books were repeatedly reissued during the author’s life, and always with some correction. What may be called the first complete edition appeared in 1567 at Lyons, published by Jean Martin. It is computed that no less than sixty editions were printed before the close of the 16th century. A very considerable time, however, elapsed before the works were, properly speaking, edited. Huet devoted much pains to them, but his results were not made public. The first edition which calls for notice, except in a complete bibliography, is that of Le Duchat (Amsterdam, 1711}. Le Duchat was a very careful student, and on the whole a very efficient editor, being perhaps, of the group of students of old French at the beginning of the 18th century, which included La Monnoye and others, the most sober, critical and accomplished. But at that time the knowledge of the period was scarcely far enough advanced. The next important date in the bibliography of Rabelais is 1823, in which year appeared the most elaborate edition of his work yet published, that of Esmangart and Johanneau (9 vols.), including for the first time the Songes Drolattques, a spurious but early and not uninteresting collection of grotesque figure drawings illustrating Gargantua and Pantagruel, and the second edition of M. de^ l’Aulnaye, containing a bad text but a useful glossary. From this time the editions nave been very numerous. Among them may be mentioned those illustrated by Gustave Dore, first on a small scale (1854), afterwards more elaborately (1870); that of the Collection Didot by Burgaud des Marets and Rathery (1857 and later); the Biblioth£que Elz6virienne edition by MM.Lacourand A. de Montaiglon; that of the Nouvelle Collection Jannet (seven small volumes, 1867-74), completed by M. Moland and very useful; and lastly, the edition of M. Marty-Laveaux in the Collection Lemerre (1868-1903), the handsomest, the most accurate, and the most complete, in the scholarly sense, yet published. Commentaries on Rabelais, independent of editions, have been numerous from the work of Jean Bernier, Jugement el nouvdles observations sur les ceuvres . .. de M. Francois Rabelais (1697), onwards. Of those of the last half-century the best are, besides essays in the works of most of the great critics: E. Noel, Rabelais (1850); A. Mayrargues, Rabelais (1868); Jean Fleury (1876); Paul Stapfer (the best of all) (1889); and G. Vallat (1899). Separate points have been treated importantly by A. Heulhard, Dernilres annSes de Rabelais (1884), and others; while the Revue des dudes Rabelaisiennes (1903 onwards) contains valuable studies, especially those of M. Abel Lesranc.
Rabelais was very early popular in England. There are possible I
allusions to him in Shakespeare, and the current clerical notion of him is very unjustly adopted by Marston in the words ” wicked Rabelais”; but Bacon described him better as the great jester of France, and a Scot, Sir Thomas Urquhart, translated the earlier books in 1653. This was not worthily completed till the luckless Motteux, or, as his compatriots call him, Le Motteux, finished it with an extensive commentary. It has been frequently reprinted. A new translation by W. F. Smith appeared in 1893. Criticism of a scattered kind on Rabelais in English is abundant, that of Coleridge being the most important, while the constant evidence of his influence in Southey’s Doctor is also noteworthy. But he was hardly treated as a whole before Sir Walter Besant’s book on the subject in the ” Foreign Classics for English Readers ” (1879), which the author followed up with Readings from Rabelais (1883). Somewhat elaborate treatments of him in connexion with contemporary literature will be found in George Saintsbury’s The Earlier Renaissance (1901) and in A. Tilley’s Literature of the French Renaissance (1904).    (G. Sa.)
RABENER, GOTTLIEB WILHELM (1714-1771), German satirist, was bom on the 17th of September 1714 at Wachau near Leipzig, and died at Dresden on tbe 22nd of March 1771. In 1741 he made his dtbut as satirist in Schwabe’s Belusligungeu des Verslandes und Wilzes, and was subsequently a contributor to the Bremer Beitrdge. Rabener’s satires are in prose and mainly levelled at the follies of the middle classes. The papers which he published in the Bremer Beilrdge were subsequently collected in a Sammlung salirischer Sckriften (2 vols., 1751), to which two volumes were added in 1755.
Rabener’s Samtliche Werke appeared in 6 vols. in 1777; the edition by E. Ortlepp (1839) also contains his correspondence, first published by C. F. Weisse in 1772. See P. Richter, Rabener und Li scow (1884), and D. Jacoby in Allg. Deutsche Biographie (1888).
RABIRIUS, a Latin epic poet of the age of Augustus. Among the papyrus fragments discovered at Herculaneum in the early part of the 19th century were sixty-seven (mutilated) hexa-moters, referring to the final struggle between Antony and' Octavian and the death of Cleopatra, generally supposed to be part of a poem by Rabirius, since Seneca (De Bcnef. vi. 3, 1) informs us that he wrote on those subjects. If genuine, they justify the qualified commendation of Quintilian rather than the exaggerated praise of Velleius Paterculus (ii. 36, 3), who couples Rabirius and Virgil as the two most eminent poets of his time.
Fragments in E. Bahrens, Fragmenta Poelarum Romanorum (1885); W. Scott, Fragmenta Herculanensia (Oxford, 1885); O. Ribbeck, Geschichte der romischen Dichtung, ii. (1889); M. Schanz, Geschichte der rbmischeii Litteratur, ii. 1 (1899); Teuffel, Hist, of Roman Literature (Eng. trans., 1900), 252, 9.
RABIRIUS, GAIUS, a Roman senator, who was defended (63 b.c.) by Cicero in a speech still extant. Nearly forty years after the death of L. Appuleius Saturninus, Titus Labienus (whose uncle had lost his life among the followers of Saturninus on that occasion) was put up by Caesar to accuse Rabirius of having been implicated in the murder. Caesar’s real object was to warn the Senate against interference by force with popular movements, to uphold the sovereignty of the people and the inviolability of the person of the tribunes. The obsolete accusation of pcrducllio was revived, and the case was heard before Julius and Lucius Caesar as commissioners specially appointed (1duoviri pcrducllionis). Rabirius was condemned, and the people, to whom the accused had exercised the right of appeal, were on the point of ratifying the decision, when A let ell us Celer pulled down the military flag from the Janiculum, which was equivalent to the dissolution of the assembly. Caesar’s object having been attained, the matter was then allowed to drop.
A nephew, known as C. Rabirius Postumus, was also defended by Cicero (54 B.C.) in the extant speech Pro Rabirio Postumo, when charged with extortion in Egypt and complicity with Aulus Gabinius (?.t>.).
See Cicero, Pro Rabirio, ed. \V. E. Heitland (1882); Dio Cassius, xxxvii. 26-28; H. Putsche, Vber das genus judicii der Rede Ciceros pro C. Rabtrio (Jena, 1881); O. Schulthess, Der Process des C. Rabirius (Frauenfeld, 1891).
RACAN, HONORS DE BUEIL, MxRquiS DE (1589-1670),
French poet, was born at the ch&teau of La Roche-Racan in 15S9. He became page at the court of Henry IV. and then entered the army, seeing some active service. Racan was very poor and was practically uneducated, for, if his'own account
may be credited, he had not learnt even Latin. But in middle life he inherited some property, and he was thus able to devote himself to the practice of poetry, in which he was the faithful, and perhaps the most distinguished, disciple of Malherbe. He had known Malherbe when he was a page at the court of Henry IV., and had early contributed to the fashionable albums of the day. In 1625 he published his most important work, Bergeries, a dramatic pastoral in five acts, a part of which, entitled Arthenice, was played in 1618. Racan was also the author of Sept psaumes (1631), Odes sacrées tirées des psaumes de David (1651), Dernières œuvres et poésies chrétiennes (1660), in all of which be was hampered by his inability to read the sacred writings except in other French paraphrases. He was one of the original members of the French Academy. He died in February 1670.
His Œuvres complètes were edited by Tenant de Latour in 1857, and the edition includes a biographical notice. See Sainte-Beuve, Causeries du lundi.
RACCONIGI, a town of Piedmont, Italy, in the province of Cuneo, 24 m. S. of Turin, and 31 m. N. of Cuneo by rail, 837 ft. above sea-level. Pop. (1901) 7364 (town); 9077 (commune). It has a royal château built in 1570, with a large park laid out in 1755 by the French-gardener Molard from designs by Le Notre, and enlarged in 1835. Since 1901 it has been the summer residence of the king of Italy.
RACCOON (or Racoon), a name borne by the typical representative of a group of American arboreal placental mammals belonging to the order Carnivora (q.v.) and the family Procyonidae. The word is a corruption of the North-American Indian “ arrathkune ” or u arathcone.” The Fr. raton or raton laveur, Gér. Waschhdr, and other European names are derived from a curious habit the raccoon has of dipping or washing its food in water before eating it. The typical raccoon (Procyon lotor) is a thickly built animal about the size of a badger, with a coat of long coarse greyish-brown hairs, short ears, and a bushy black-and-white-ringed tail. Its range extends over the whole of the United States, and stretches on the west northwards to Alaska and southwards well into Central America, where it attains its maximum size. The following notes on the habits of the raccoon are from Dr C. Hart Merriam’s The Mammals of the Adirondacks:—
Raccoons are omnivorous beasts and feed upon mice, small birds, birds' eggs, turtles and their eggs, frogs, fish, crayfish, molluscs, insects, nuts, fruits, maize and sometimes poultry. Excepting alone the bats and flying-squirrels, they are the most strictly nocturnal of all our mammals, and yet I have several times seen them abroad on cloudy days. They haunt the banks of ponds and streams, and find much of their food in these places, such as crayfish, mussels and fish, although they are unable to dive and pursue the latter under water, like the otter and mink. They are good swimmers and do not hesitate to cross rivers that lie in their path. . . . The raccoon hibernates during the severest part of the winter, retiring to its nest rather early, and appearing again in February or March, according to the earliness or lateness of the season. It makes its home high up in the hollow of some large tree, preferring a dead limb to the trunk itself. It does little in the way of constructing a nest, and from four to six young are commonly born at a time, generally early in April in this region. The young remain with the mother about a year.”
The South-American species, P. cancrivorus, the crab-eating raccoon, is very similar to P. lotor, but differs by its shorter fur, larger size, proportionally more powerful teeth and other minor characters. It extends over tbe whole of South America, as far south as the Rio Negro, and is common in all suitable localities. Its habits are similar to those of the North-American species.
RACCOON-DOG (Nyctereutes procyonoides), a small wild dog, with sharp-pointed muzzle, short rounded ears, bushy tail and long fur, found in China, Japan and Amurland. The total length is about 32 in., of which tbe tail measures 4 in. The prevailing hues are black and dusky yellow, the distribution of which varies in different individuals. In habit these dogs are chiefly nocturnal; and they are said to hibernate. In winter they feed on fish, and in summer on mice, forming small packs to hunt their prey.
RACE, an homonymous word of which tbe principal meanings are (1) a trial or contest of speed; (2) a tribe, breed, a group of individuals descended from a common ancestor. In the first case the word is an adaptation of O.Nor. râs, a cognate form in O.E. being raês, rush, onset; while the O.E. descendant reese was frequently used in medieval poetry. The particular use of the word for a swift current of water running through a narrow channel, e.g. the Race of Alderney, and for the water conducted in an artificial channel to a point where its power is to be used, as in “ mill-race,” may be due to the O.Fr. raz or raze, probably of Breton origin. Tbe second word, an ethnical or national stock, comes from Fr. rase, adapted from Ital. razzo, cf. Span. raza. It has been referred to an O.H.G. reiza, line, mark, cognate with Eng. “write,” i.e. the line marking descent.
RACHEL (1821-1858), French actress, whose real name was Elizabeth Felix, the daughter of poor Jew pedlars, was tom on the 28th of February 1821, at Mumpf, in tbe canton of Aargau, Switzerland. At Reims she and her elder sister, Sophia, afterwards known as Sarah, joined a troupe of Italian children who made their living by singing in the cafés, Sarah singing and Elizabeth, then only four years of age, collecting the coppers. In 1830 they came to Paris, where they sang in the streets, Rachel giving such patriotic songs as the Parisienne and the Marseillaise with a rude but precocious energy which evoked special admiration and an abundant shower of coppers. Étienne Choron, a famous teacher of singing, was so impressed with the talents of the two sisters that he undertook to give them gratuitous instruction, and after his death in 1833 they were received into the Conservatoire. Rachel made her first appearance at the Gymnase in Paul Duport’s La Vendéenne on the 4th of April 1837, with only mediocre success. But on the 12th of June in the following year she succeeded, after great difficulty, in making a début at the Théâtre Français, as Camille in Corneille’s Horace, when her remarkable genius at once Received general recognition. In the same year she played Roxane in Racine’s Bajazet winning a complete triumph, but it was in Racine’s Phèdre, which she first played on the 21st of January 1843, that her peculiar gifts were most strikingly manifested. Her range of characters was limited, but within it she was unsurpassable. She excelled particularly in tbe impersonation of evil or malignant passion, in her presentation of which there was a majesty and dignity which fascinated while it repelled. By careful training her voice, originally hard and harsh, had become flexible and melodious, and its low and muffled notes under the influence of passion possessed a thrilling and penetrating quality that was irresistible. In plays by contemporary authors she created the characters of Judith and Cleopatra in the tragedies of Madame de Girardin, but perhaps her most successful appearance was in 1849 in Scribe and Legouvé’s Adrienne Lecouvreur, which was written for her. In 1841 and in 1842 she visited London, where her interpretations of Corneille
and Racine were the sensation of the season. In 1855 she made a tour in the United States with comparatively small success, but this was after her powers, through continued ill-health, bad begun to deteriorate. She died of consumption at Cannct, near Nice, on the 4th of January 1858, and was buried in the Jewish part of the cemetery of Pere Lachaise in Paris. Rachel’s third sister was Lia Felix ($.r.).
See Jules G. Janin, Rachel el la tragSdie (1858); Mrs Arthur Kennard, Rachel (Boston, 3888); and A. de Faucigny-Lucinge, Rachel et son temps (1910).
RACINE, JEAN (1639-1699), French tragic dramatist, was born at La Ferte Milon in the old duchy of Valois on an uncertain date in December 1639. He was certainly christened on the 22nd, and the ceremony was at that time often, though not invariably, performed on the day of birth. Racine belonged to a family of the upper bourgeoisie, which had indeed been technically ennobled some generations earlier, and bore the punning arms of a rat and a swan (ralt cygne). The poet himself subsequently dropped the rat. His family were connected with others of the same or a slightly higher station in La Ferte and its neighbourhood—the Desmoulins, the Sconins, the Vitarts, all of whom appear in Racine's life. His mother was Jeanne Sconin. His father, of the s&me name as himself, was only four-and-twenty at the time of the poet's birth. He seems to have been a solicitor (procureur) by profession, and held, as his father, the grandfather of the dramatist, had done, the office of conlroleur an grenter ά sel. Racine was the eldest child. Little more than a year afterwards his sister Marie was born and his mother died. Jean Racine the elder married again, but three months later he himself died, and the stepmother is never heard of in connexion with the poet or his sister. They were left without any provision, but their grandparents, Jean Racine the eldest and Marie Desmoulins, were still living, and took charge of them. These grandparents had a daughter, Agnes, who figures in Racine's history. She was a nun and later abbess of Port Royal under the style of Mere de Sainte Thecle, and the whole family had strong Jansenist leanings. Jean Racine the eldest died in 1649, and the poet was sent to the College de Beauvais. This (which was the grammar-school of the town of that name, and not the famous College de Beauvais at Paris) was intimately connected with Port Royal, and to this place Racine was transferred in November 1655. His special masters there were Nicole and Le Maitre. The latter, in an extant letter written to his pupil, speaks of himself as “ votre papa." It is evident from documents that he wr as a very diligent student both at Beauvais and Port Royal. He wrote verse both in Latin and French, and his Port Royal odes, which it has been the fashion with the more fanatical admirers of his later poetry to ridicule, arc far from despicable.
Racine stayed at Port Royal for three years, and left it, when nearly nineteen, in October 1658. He was then entered at the College d'Harcourt and boarded with his second cousin, Nicolas Vitart, steward of the duke of Luyncs. Later, if not at first, he lived in the H6tel de Luynes itself. It is to be observed that Ivs Jansenist surroundings continued with him here, for the duke of Luynes was a severe Port Royalist. It is, however, clear from Racine's correspondence, which, as we have it, begins in 1660 and is for some years very abundant and interesting, that he was not at all of an austere disposition at this time. Occasionally the liveliness of the letters passes the bounds of strict decency, though there is nothing very shocking in them, and those to Madame (or, as the habit of the time called her, Mademoiselle) Vitart are free from anything of this kind. It does not appear that Racine read much philosophy, as he should have done, but he occasionally did some business in superintending building operations at Chcvrcuse, the duke's country house. He would seem, however, to have been already given up irrevocably to literature. This by no means suited the views of his devout relations at Port Royal, and he complains in one of his letters that an unlucky sonnet on Mazarin had brought down on him “excommunications sur excommunications." The marriage of Louis XIV. was the occasion of an ambitious ode, La nymphe de la Seine, which was submitted before publication to Jean Chapelain, the too famous author of the Pucelle. Chapelain made many suggestions which Racine duly adopted. Nor did the ode bound his ambitions, for in 1660 he finished one piece, Amasie, and undertook another, Les Amours d’Ovide, for the theatre. The first, however, was rejected by the actors of tbe Marais, and it is not certain that the other was ever finished or offered to those of the H6tel de Bourgogne. Racine's letters show that he was intimate with more than one actress at this time; he also made acquaintance with La Fontaine, and the foundations at any rate of the legendary “ society of four " (Boilcau, La Fontaine, Moliere and Racine) were thus laid.
His relations were pretty certainly alarmed by this very pardonable worldliness, though a severe expostulation with him for keeping company with the abominable actors is perhaps later in date. Racine was accordingly disturbed in his easygoing life at Paris. In November i66r he went to Uzes in Languedoc to live with his uncle the Pere Sconin, vicar-general of that diocese, whose attempts to secure ‘a benefice for his nephew were, however, in vain. Racine was back in Paris before the end of 1663. His letters from Uzes to La Fontaine, to Le Vasseur, and others are in much the same strain as before, but there is here and there a marked tone of cynicism in them. He also attempted a little courtiership. An ode on the recovery of Louis XIV. from a slight illness probably secured him the promise of a pension, of which he speaks to his sister in the summer of 1664. It is uncertain whether this pension is identical with “ gratifications ” which we know that Racine for some years received, and which were sometimes eight and sometimes six hundred livres. It would seem not, as one of these gratifications had been allotted to him the year before he so wrote to his sister. The ode in which he thanked the king for his presents, La Renommiet is said to have introduced him to Boileau, to whose censorship there is no doubt that he owed much, if not everything; and from this date, November 1663, the familiarity of “ the four " seems to have existed in full force. Unfortunately it is precisely at this date that his correspondence ceases, and it is not renewed till after the close of his brief but brilliant career as a dramatist (Esther and Athalie excepted). From this time forward the gossip of the period, and the Life by his son Louis, are the chief sources of information. Unfortunately Louis Racine, though a man of some ability and of unimpeached character, was only six years old when his father died, and had no direct knowledge. Still his account represents family papers and traditions; and seems to have been carefully, as it is certainly in the main impartially, written. From other sources—notably Boileau, Claude Brossette and Jean Baptiste de Valincourt—a good deal of pretty certainly authentic information is obtainable, and there exists a considerable body of correspondence between Boileau and the poet during the last ten years of Racine's life.
The first but the least characteristic of the dramas by which Racine is known, La Tkibaide, was finished by the end of 1663, and on Friday 20th June 1664 it was played by Moliere's company at the Palais Royal theatre. Some editors assert that Moliere himself acted in it, but the earliest account of the cast we have, and that is sixty years after date, omits his name, though those of Madeleine Bejard and Mademoiselle de Brie occur. There is also a tradition that Moliere suggested the subject; but Louis Racine distinctly says that his father wrote most of the play at Uzes before he knew Moliere. From Racine's own earlier letters it appears that the play was designed for the rival theatre, and that “ La D6hanch£c," Racine's familiar name for Mademoiselle de Beauch&teau, with whom he was intimate, was to play Antigone. The play itself is by far the weakest of Racine’s works. He has borrowed much from Euripides and not a little from Jean de Rotrou; and in his general style and plan he has as yet struck out no great variation from Corneille. It was acted twelve times during the first month, and was occasionally revived during the year following. This is apparently the date of the pleasant picture
of the four friends which La Fontaine draws in his Psyche, Racine figuring as Acante, “ qui aimait extrêmement les jardins, les fleurs, les ombrages,” in which surroundings he helped to compose the lampoon of Chapelain décoiffé on a writer who had helped him with criticism, obtained royal gifts for him, and, in a fashion, started him in the literary career.
We have no definite details as to Racine's doings during the year 1664, but in February 1665 he read at the Hôtel de Nevers before La Rochefoucauld, Madame de la Fayette, Madame de Sévigné, and other scarcely less redoubtable judges the greater part of his second acted play, Alexandre le Grand, or, as Pomponne (who tells the fact) calls it, Por us. It was anxiously expected by the public, and Molière's company played it on the 4th of December—Monsieur, his wife Henrietta of England, and many other distinguished persons being present. The gazetteer, Adrien Perdou de Subligny vouches for its success, and the receipts were good and steady. But a fortnight afterwards Alexandre was played, “ de complot avec M. Racine,” says La Grange, by the rival actors (who had four days before performed it in private) at the Hôtel de Bourgogne. A vast amount of ink has been spilt on this question, but no one has produced any valid justification for Racine. That the piece failed at the Palais Royal, as is stated in the earliest attempt to excuse Racine, and the only one made in his lifetime, is not true. His son simply says that he was “ mécontent des acteurs,” which indeed is self-evident. It is certain that Molière and he ceased to be friends in consequence of this proceeding; and that Molière was in fault no one who has studied the character of the two men will easily believe. If, however, Alexandre was the occasion of showing the defects of Racine's character as a man, it raised him vastly in public estimation as a poet. He was now for the first time proposed as a serious rival to Corneille. There is a story that he read the piece to the author of the Cid and asked his verdict. Corneille praised the piece highly, but not as a drama, “ Il l'assurait qu'il n'était pas propre à la poésie dramatique.” There is no reason for disbelieving this, for the character of Alexander could not fail to shock Corneille, and he was notorious for not mincing his words. The contrast between the two even at this early period was accurately apprehended and put by Saint Evremond in his masterly Dissertation sur VAlexandre, but this was not published for a year or two. To this day it is the best criticism of the faults of Racine, though not, it may be, of the merits, which had not yet been fully seen. It may be added that in the preface of the printed play the poet showed the extreme sensitiveness to criticism which perhaps excuses, and which certainly often accompanies, a tendency to criticize others. These defects of character showed themselves still more fully in another matter. The Port Royalists, as has been said, detested the theatre, and in January 1666 Nicole, their chief writer, spoke in one of his Lettres sur les visionnaires, directed against Desmurets de Saint-Sulin, of dramatic poets as “ empoisonneurs publics.” Racine immediately published a letter to the author. It is very smartly written, and if Racine had contented himself with protesting against the exaggeration of the decriers of the stage there would have been little harm done. But he filled the piece with personalities, telling an absurd story of Mère Angélique Arnauld's supposed intolerance, drawing a ridiculous picture of Le Maître (a dead man and his own special teacher and friend), and sneering savagely at Nicole himself. The latter made no reply, but two lay adherents of Port Royal took up the quarrel with more zeal than discretion or ability. Racine wrote a second pamphlet as bitter and personal as the first, but less amusing, and was about to publish it when fortunately Boileau, who had been absent from Paris, returned and protested against the publication. It remained accordingly unprinted till after the author's death, as well as a preface to both which he had prepared with a view to publishing them together and so discharging the accumulated resentment arising from a long course of “ excommunications.”
After this disagreeable episode Racine’s life, for ten years and more, becomes simply the history of his plays, if we except his liaisons with the actresses Mademoiselle du Parc and Mademoiselle de Champmeslé, and his election to the Academy on the 17th of July 1673. Mademoiselle du Parc (marquise de Gorla) was no very great actress, but was very beautiful, and she had previously captivated Molière. Racine induced her to leave the Palais Royal company and join the Hôtel. She died in 1668, and long afterwards the infamous Catherine Voisin accused Racine of having poisoned her. Mademoiselle de Champmeslé was plain, but an admirable actress, and apparently very attractive in some way, for not merely Racine but Charles de Sévigné and many others adored her. For five years before his marriage Racine seems to have been her amant en titre, but, long afterwards, just before his own death, when he heard of her mortal illness, he spoke of her to his son without a flash of tenderness.
The series of his unquestioned dramatic triumphs began with Andromaquef and this play may perhaps dispute with Phèdre and Athalie the title of his masterpiece. It is much more uniformly good than Phèdre, and the character of Hermione is the most personally interesting on the French tragic stage. It is said that the first representation of Afulromaque was on 10th November 1667, in public and by the actors of the Hôtel de Bourgogne, but the first contemporary mention of it by the gazettes, prose and verse, is on the 17th, as performed in the queen's apartment. Perrault, by no means a friendly critic as far as Racine is concerned, says that it made as much noise as the Cidt and so it ought to have done. Whatever may be thought of the tragédie pathétique (a less favourable criticism might call it the “ sentimental tragedy ”), it could hardly be better exemplified than in this admirable play. A ferocious epigram of Racine's own tells us that some critics thought Pyrrhus too fond of his mistress, and Andromache too fond of her husband, but in the contemporary depreciations is to be found the avowal of its real merit. Pyrrhus was taken by Floridor, the best tragic actor by common consent of his time, and Orestes by Montfleury, also an accomplished player. But Mademoiselle du Parc, who played Andromache, had generally been thought below, not above , her parts, and Mademoiselle des Oeillets, who played the difficult rôle of Hermione, was old and had few physical advantages. No one who reads Andromaque without prejudice is likely to mistake the secret of its success, which is, in few words, the application of the most delicate art to the conception of really tragic passion. Before leaving the play it may be mentioned that it is said to have been in the part of Hermione, three years later, that Mademoiselle de Champmeslé captivated the author. Andro-maque was succeeded, at the distance of not more than a year, by the charming comedietta of Les Plaideurs. We do not know exactly when it was played, but it was printed on the 5th of December 1668. Many anecdotes are told about its origin and composition. The Wasps of Aristophanes, and the known fact that Racine originally destined it, not for a French company, but for the Italian troupe which was then playing the Commedia ddV arte in Paris, dispense us from enumerating them. The result is a piece admirably dramatic, but sufficiently literary to shock the profanimi vulgus, which too frequently gives the tone at theatres. It failed completely, the chief favouring voice being, according to a story sufficiently well attested and worthy of belief even without attestation, that of the man who was best qualified to praise and who might have been most tempted to blame of any man then living. Molière, says Valincourt, the special friend of Racine, said in leaving the house, “ Que ceux qui se moquoient de cette pièce meritoient qu'on se moquoient d'eux.” But the piece was suddenly played at court a month later; the king laughed, and its fortunes were restored. It need only be added that, if Louis XIV. admired Les Plaideurs, Napoleon did not, and excluded it from his travelling library. It was followed by a very different work, Britannicusy which appeared on 13th December 1669. This was much less successful than Andro-maque, and seems to have held its own but a very few nights. Afterwards it became very popular, and even from the first the
exquisite versification was not denied. But there is no doubt that in Britannicus the defects of Racine display themselves pretty clearly to any competent critic. The complete nullity of Britannicus himself and of Junie, and the insufficient attempt to display the complex and dangerous character of Nero are not redeemed by Agrippina, who is really good, and Burrhus, who is solidly painted as a secondary character. Voltaire calls it “la piSce des connaisseurs,” a double-edged compliment. The next play of Racine has, except Phldre, the most curious history of all. “ Birlnice” says Fontenelle succinctly, “ fut un duel,” and he acknowledges that his uncle was not the conqueror. Henrietta of Orleans proposed (it is said without letting them know the double commission) the subject to Corneille and Racine at the same time, and rumour gives no very creditable reasons for her choice of the subject. Her death preceded the performance of the two plays, both of which, but especially Racine’s, were successful. There is no doubt that it is the better of the two, but Claude Chapelle’s not unfriendly criticism in quoting the two lines of an old song— “Marion pleure, Marion crie,
Marion veut qu’on la marie”—
is said to have annoyed Racine very much, and it has a most malicious appropriateness. Bajazet, which was first played on 4th January 1672, is perhaps better. As a play, technically speaking, it has great merit, but the reproach commonly brought against its author was urged specially and with great force against this by Corneille. It is impossible to imagine anything less Oriental than the atmosphere of Bajazet; the whole thing is not only French but ephemerally French—French of the day and hour; and its ingenious scenario and admirable style scarcely save it. This charge is equally applicable with the same reservations to Mithridate, which appears to have been produced on 13th January 1673, the day after the author’s reception at the Academy. It was extremely popular, and Racine could hardly have lodged a more triumphant diploma piece. His next attempt, Iphiginie, was a long step backwards and upwards in the direction of Andromaque. It is not that the characters are eminently Greek, but that Greek tragedy gave Racine examples which prevented him from flying in the face of the propriety of character as he had done in BirSnice, Bajazet, and Mithridate, and that he here called in, as in Andromaque, other passions to the aid of the mere sighing and crying which form the sole appeal of these three tragedies. It succeeded brilliantly and deservedly, but, oddly enough, the date of its appearance is very uncertain. It was acted at court on the 18th of August 1674, but it does not seem to have been given to the public till the early spring of 1675.
The last and finest of the series of tragedies proper was the most unlucky. Phldre was represented for the first time on New Year’s Day 1677, at the H0tel de Bourgogne. Within a week the opposition company or troupe du roi launched an opposition Phldre by Nicolas Pradon. This singular competition, which had momentous results for Racine, and in which he to some extent paid the penalty of the lex talionis for his own rivalry with Corneille, had long been foreseen. Racine had from the first been bitterly opposed, and his enemies at this time had the powerful support of the duchess of Bouillon, one of Mazarin’s nieces, together with her brother the duke of Nevers and divers other personages of high position. These persons of quality, guided, it is said, by Madame Deshouliercs, selected Pradon, a dramatist of little talent but of much facility, to compose a Phldre in competition with that which it was known that Racine had been elaborating. The partisans on both sides did not neglect means for correcting fortune. On her side the duchess of Bouillon is accused of having bought up the front places in both theatres for the first six nights; on his, Racine is said to have prevailed on the best actresses of the company that played Pradon’s piece to refuse the title part. There is even some ground for believing that he endeavoured to prevent the opposition play from being played at all. It was of no value, but the measures of the cabal had been so well taken that the finest tragedy of the French classical school was all but driven from the stage, while Pradon’s was a positive success. A war of sonnets and epigrams followed, during which it is said that the duke of Nevers menaced Racine and Boileau with the same treatment which Dryden and Voltaire actually received, and was only deterred by the protection which Cond6 extended to them.
The unjust cabal against his piece no doubt made a deep impression on Racine. But it is impossible to decide exactly how much influence this had on the subsequent change in his life. For thirteen years he had been constantly employed on a series of brilliant dramas. He now broke off his dramatic work entirely and in the remaining twenty years of his life wrote but two more plays, and those under special circumstances and of quite a different kind. He had been during his early manhood a libertine in morals and religion; he now married, became irreproachably domestic, and almost ostentatiously devout. No authentic account of this change exists; for that of Louis Racine, which attributes the whole to a sudden religious impulse, is manifestly little more than the theory of a son, pious in both senses of the word. Probably all the motives which friends and foes have attributed entered more or less into his action. At any rate, what is certain is that he reconciled himself with Amauld and Port Royal generally, accepted, with whatever sincerity, their doctrine ol the incompatibility of the stage and the Christian life, and on the 1st of June married Catherine de Romanet and definitely settled down to a quiet domestic life, alternated with the duties of a courtier. For his repentance was by no means a repentance in sackcloth and ashes. The drama was not then very profitable to dramatists, but Louis Racine tells us that his father had been able to furnish a house, collect a library of some value, and save 6000 livres. His wife had money, and he had possessed for some time (it is not certain how long) the honourable and valuable post of treasurer of France at Moulins. His annual “ gratification ” had been increased from 800 to 1500 livres, then to 2000, and in the October of the year of his marriage he and Boileau were made historio-graphers-royal with a salary of 2000 crowns. Besides all this he had, though a layman, one or two benefices. It would have been pleasanter if Louis Racine had not told us that his father regarded His Majesty’s choice as “ an act of the grace of God to detach him entirely from poetry.” For the historiographer of Louis XIV. was simply his chief flatterer. However, little came of this historiography. The joint incumbents of the office made some campaigns with the king, sketched plans of histories and left a certain number of materials and memoirs; but they executed no substantive work. Racine, whether this be set down to his credit or not, was certainly a fortunate and apparently an adroit courtier. His very relapse into Jansenism coincided with his rise at court, where Jansenism was in no favour, and the fact that he had been in the good graces of Madame de Montespan did not deprive him of those of Madame de Maintenon. Neither in Esther did he hesitate to reflect upon his former patroness. But a reported sneer of the king, who was sharp-eyed enough, “ Cavoie avee Racine se croit bel esprit; Racine avec Cavoie se croit courtisan,” makes it appear that his comparatively low birth was not forgotten at Versailles.
Racine’s first campaign was at the siege of Ypres in 1678, where some practical jokes are said to have been played on the two civilians who acted this early and peculiar variety of the part of special correspondent. Again in 1683, in 1687 and in each year from 1691 to 1693 Racine accompanied the king on similar expeditions. The literary results of these have been spoken of. His labours brought him, in addition to his other gains, frequent special presents from the king, one of which was as much as 1000 pistoles. In 1690 he further received the office of “ gentilhomme ordinaire du roi,” which afterwards passed to his son. Thus during the later years of his life he was more prosperous than is usual with poets. His domestic life appears to have been a happy one.
Louis Racine tells us that his mother “did not know what a verse was,” but Racine certainly knew enough about verses for both. They had seven children. The eldest, Jean Baptiste, was born in 1678; the youngest, Louis, in 1692. It has been said that he was thus too young to have many personal memories of his father, but he tells one or two stories which show Racine to have been at any rate a man of strong family affection, as, moreover, his letters prove. Between the two sons came five daughters, Marie, Anne, Elizabeth, Françoise and Madeleine. The eldest, after showing “vocation,” married in 1699, Anne and Elizabeth took the veil, the youngest two remained single but did not enter the cloister. To complete the notice of family matters—much of Racine's later correspondence is addressed to his sister Marie, Madame Rivière.
The almost complete silence which Racine imposed on himself after the comparative failure of Phèdre was broken once or twice even before the appearance of his two last exquisite tragedies. The most honourable of these was the reception of Thomas Corneille on 2nd January 1685 at the Academy in the room of his brother. The discourse which Racine then pronounced turned almost entirely on his great rival, of whom he spoke even more than becomingly. But it was an odd conjunction of the two reigning passions of the latter part of his lift—devoutness and obsequiousness to the court—which made him once more a dramatist. Madame de Maintenon had established an institution, first called the Maison Saint Louis, and afterwards (from the place to which it was transferred) the Maison de Saint Cyr, for the education of poor girls of noble family. The tradition of including acting in education was not obsolete. At first the governess, Madame de Grinon, composed pieces for representation, but, says Madame de Caylus, a witness at first hand and a good judge, they were “detestable.” Then recourse was had to chosen plays of Corneille and Racine, but here there were obvious objections. The favourite herself wrote to Racine that “nos petites filles” had played Andromaque “a great deal too well.” She asked the poet for a new play suited to the circumstances, and, though Boileau advised him against it, it is not wonderful that he yielded. The result was the masterpiece of Esther, with music by Moreau, the court composer and organist of Saint Cyr. Although played by schoolgirls and in a dormitory, it had an enormous success, with which it may be charitably hoped that the transparent comparison of the patroness to the heroine had not too much to do. Printed shortly afterwards, it had to suffer a certain reaction, or perhaps a certain vengeance, from those who had not been admitted to the private stage. But no competent judge could hesitate. Racine probably had read and to some extent followed the Aman of Antoine de Montchrétien, but he made of it only the use which a proved master in literature has a perfect right to make of his forerunners. The beauty of the chorus, which Racine had restored more probably from a study of the Pléiade tragedy than from classical suggestions, the perfection of the characters and the wonderful art of the whole piece need no praise. Almost immediately the poet was at work on another and a still finer piece of the same kind, and he had probably finished Athalie before the end of 1690. The fate of the play, however, was very different from that of Esther. Some fuss had been made about the worldliness of great court fêtes at Saint Cyr, and the new play, with settings as before by Moreau, was acted both at Versailles and at Saint Cyr with much less pomp and ceremony than Esther. It was printed in March 1691, and the public cared very little for it. The truth is that the last five-and-twenty years of the reign of Louis XIV. were marked by one of the lowest tides of literary accomplishment and appreciation in the history of France. The just judgment of posterity has ranked Athalie, if not as Racine's best work (and there are good grounds for considering it to be this), at any rate as equal to his best. Thenceforward Racine was practically silent, except for four cantiques spirituelles, in the style and with much of the merit of the choruses of Esther and Athalie. The general literary sentiment led by Fontenelle (who inherited the wrongs of Corneille, his uncle, and whom Racine had taken care to estrange further) was against the arrogant critic and the irritable poet, and they made their case worse by espousing the cause of La Bruyère, whose personalities in his Caractères had made him one of the best-hated men in France, and by engaging in the Ancient and Modern battle with Charles Perrault. Racine, moreover, was a constant and spiteful epigrammatist, and the unlucky habit of preferring his joke to his friend stuck by him to the last. A savage epigram on the Sesoslris of Hilaire Bernard de Longepierre, who had done him no harm, was his familiar acquaintance, and had actually put him above Corneille in a parallèle between them, dates as late as 1695. Still the king maintained him in favour, and so long as this continued he could afford to laugh at Grub Street and the successors of the Hôtel de Rambouillet alike. At last, however, there seems to have come a change, and it is even probable that royal displeasure had some effect on his health. Disease of the liver appears to have been the immediate cause of his death, which took place on 12th April 1699. The king seems to have, at any rate, forgiven him after his death, and he gave the family a pension of 2000 livres. Racine was buried at Port Royal, but even this transaction was not the last of his relations with that famous home of religion and learning. After the destruction of the abbey in 1711 his body was exhumed and transferred to Saint Étienne du Mont, his gravestone being left behind and only restored to his ashes a hundred years later, in 1818. His eldest son was never married; his eldest daughter and Louis Racine have left descendants to the present day.
Racine may be considered from two very different points of view,—(1) as a playwright and poetical artificer, and (2) as a dramatist and a poet. From the first point of view there is hardly any praise too high for him. He did not invent the form he practised, and those who, from want of attention to the historical facts, assume that he did are unskilful as well as ignorant. When he came upon the scene the form of French plays was settled, partly by the energetic efforts of the Pléiade and their successors, partly by the reluctant acquiescence of Corneille. It is barely possible that the latter might, if he had chosen, have altered the course of French tragedy; it is nearly certain that Racine could not. But Corneille, though he was Jiimself more responsible than any one else for the acceptance of the single-situation tragedy, never frankly gave himself up to it, and the inequality of his work is due to this. His heart was, though not to his knowledge, elsewhere, and with Shakespeare. Racine, in whom the craftsman dominated the man of genius, worked with a will and without any misgivings. Every advantage of which the Senecan tragedy adapted to modern times was capable he gave it. He perfected its versification; he subordinated its scheme entirely to the one motive which could have free play in it,—the display of a conventionally intense passion, hampered by this or that obstacle; he set himself to produce in verse a kind of Ciceronian correctness. The grammar-criticisms of Vaugelas and the taste-criticisms of Boileau produced in him no feeling of revolt, but only a determination to play the game according to these new rules with triumphant accuracy. And he did so play it. He had supremely the same faculty which enabled the rhétoriqueurs of the 15th century to execute apparently impossible tours deforce in ballades couronnées, and similar tricks. He had besides a real and saving vein of truth to nature, which preserved him from tricks pure and simple. He would be, and he was, as much a poet as prevalent taste would let him be. The result is that such plays as Phèdre and Andromaque are supreme in their own way. If the critic will only abstain from thrusting in tierce, when according to the particular rules he ought to thrust in quart, Racine is sure to beat him.
But there is a higher game of criticism than this, and this game Racine does not attempt to play. He does not even attempt the highest poetry at all. His greatest achievements in pure passion—the foiled desires of Hermione and the jealous frenzy of Phèdre—are cold, not merely beside the crossed love
of Ophelia and the remorse of Lady Macbeth, but beside the sinccrer if less perfectly expressed passion of Corneille’s Cl^op^tre and Camille. In men’s parts he fails still more completely. As the decency of his stage would not allow him to make his heroes frankly heroic, so it would not allow him to make them utterly passionate. He had, moreover, cut away from himself, by the adoption of the Scnecan model, all the opportunities which would have been offered to his remarkably varied talent on a freer stage. It is indeed tolerably certain that he never could have achieved the purely poetical comedy of A s You Like It or the Vida es Suesto, but the admirable success of Les Plaideurs makes it at least probable that he might have done something in a lower and a more conventional style. From all this, however, he deliberately cut himself off. Of the whole world which is subject to the poet he took only a narrow artificial and conventional fraction. Within these narrow bounds he did work which no admirer of literary craftsmanship can regard without admiration. It would be unnecessary to contrast his performances with his limitations so sharply if those limitations had not been denied. But they have been and arc still denied by persons whose sentence carries weight, and therefore it is still necessary to point out the fact of their existence.
Bibliography.—Nearly all Racine’s works are mentioned in the above notice. There is here no room for a bibliographical account of their separate appearances. The first collected edition was in 1675-76, and contained the nine tragedies which had then appeared. The last and most complete which appeared in the poet’s lifetime (1697) was perhaps revised by him, and contains the dramas and a few miscellaneous works. Like the editio princeps, it is in 2 vols. i2mo. The posthumous editions are innumerable and gradually became more and ^ more complete. The most noteworthy are the Amsterdam edition of 1722; that by Abb£ d’Olivet, also at Amsterdam, 1743; the Paris quarto of 1760; the edition of Luneau de Boisjermain, Paris and London, 1768; the magnificent illustrated folios of 1805 (Paris); the edition of Germain Gamier with La Harpe’s commentary, 1807; Geoffroy's of the next year; Aime Martin’s of 1820; and lastly, the Grands tcrivains edition of Paul Mesnard (Paris, 1865-73). This last contains almost all that is necessary for the study of the poet, and has been chiefly used in preparing the above notice. Louis Racine’s Life was first published in 1747. Translations and imitations of Racine are innumerable. In English the Distressed Mother of Ambrose Philips and the Phaedra and Hippolytus of Edmund Smith (1672-1710), both composed more or less under Addison’s influence, are the most noteworthy
As for criticism on him, a bibliography of it would be nearly a bibliography of French critical literature. The chief recent instance of substantive work is G. Larroumet’s· monograph in the Grands Scrivainsfranqais (1898), but F. Brunetidre, fimile Faguet, and other critics have constantly and in various ways endeavoured to apply the general reaction from Romanticism to a semi-classical attitude to this greatest of French " classics.” The conclusions above given remain unaffected by this temporary set of opinion. Racine will never be enfonci—“ put to rout ”—as the extravagant Romantics thought him to be for a time. But, on the other hand, his limitations will remain, and no ingenious but arbitrary and extemporized theories of drama as to “ conflicts of will ” and the like can suffice to veil his defect in universality, his comparative shallowness, and his inadequate appreciation, or at least representation, of the richness, the intricacy and the unconventionally of nature.
(G. Sa.)
RACINE, LOUIS (1692-1763), French poet, second son of Jean Racine, was born in Paris on the 6th of November 1692. Early conscious of a vocation for poetry, he had been dissuaded from following his inclination by Boileau on the ground that the gift never existed in two successive generatiohs. In 1722 his small means induced him to accept a position in the revenue in Provence, but a marriage with a certain Mademoiselle Prcsle secured his independence. In 1755 he lost his son in the disasters consequent on the Lisbon earthquake. This misfortune, commemorated by ficouchard Lebrun, broke Racine’s spirit. He sold his library, and gave himself up entirely to the practice of religion. In 1719 he had become a member of the Acad6mie dcs Inscriptions, but had never offered himself as a member of the Academic Francaise, for fear, it is said, of incurring refusal on account of bis Jansenist opinions. La Grace (1720) and Religion (1742), his most important work, are inspired by a sincere piety, and are written in verse of uniform clearness and excellence. His other works include epistles, odes, among which the Ode stir Vharmonie (1736) should be mentioned, Mimoires (1747) of Jean Racine, and a prose translation of Paradise Lost (1755). Louis Racine died on the 29th of January 1763. He was characterized by Voltaire as “ le bon versificateur Racine, fils du grand poetc Racine.”
His CEuvres competes were collected (6 vols.) in 1808.
RACINE, a city and the county-seat of Racine county, Wisconsin, U.S.A., on the W. shore of Lake Michigan at tbe mouth of the Root river, about 25 m. S.S.E. of Milwaukee and about 60 m. N. of Chicago. Pop. (1890) 21,014; (1900) 29,102, of whom 9242 were foreign-born; (1910 census) 38,002. Racine is served by the Chicago & North Western and the Chicago, Milwaukee & St Paul railways, by two inter-urban electric railways, connecting with Milwaukee and Chicago, and by steamboat lines. Tbe river has been deepened and its mouth protected by breakwaters, providing an excellent harbour; in 1909 vessels drawing 19 ft. could pass through the channel. Among the public buildings are the City Hall, the County Court House, the Federal Building, the Carnegie Library, the 'High School, two hospitals and the Taylor Orphan Asylum (1872). Among educational institutions, besides the public schools, are Racine College (Protestant Episcopal, 1853), St Catherine’s Academy (Roman Catholic) and two business colleges. Racine is, next to Milwaukee, the most important manufacturing centre in Wisconsin. The value of its factory products in 1905 was $16,458,965, an increase of 41% over that of 1900. Of this, $5,177,079 (or 31*5% of the city’s total) represented agricultural implements and machinery. Carriages and wagons ($2,729,311) and automobiles ranked next in importance.
Racine was the French form of the name of the Root river. The first Europeans positively known to have visited the site of Racine were Vincennes, Tonty and several Jesuit missionaries, who stopped here for a time on their way down the coast in 1699. Early in the 19th century Jambeau, a French trader, established himself on the Root river, and in 1834 Gilbert Knapp (1798-1889), who had been a lake captain since 1818, induced several residents of Chicago to make their homes at its mouth. The place was at first called Port Gilbert. The settlement grew rapidly, a sawmill was built in 1835, and the present name was adopted in 1837. In 1841 Racine was incorporated as a village and in 1848 was chartered as a city.
See S. S. Hurlburt, Early Days at Racine (Racine, 1872); History of Racine and Kenosha Counties (Chicago, 1879).
RACK, an homonymous word of which the principal branches are the words meaning (1) a mass of cloud driving before the wind in the upper air, (2) to draw off wine or other liquor from the lees, (3) a bar or framework of bars, (4) an. instrument of torture. The etymology of (1) shows that it is ultimately to be connected with 11 wreck ” and “ wrack,” drifted seaweed, and means that which is driven by or drifts with the wind; cf. Norw. rak, wreckage, refuse, Icel. rekay to drive, toss. In (2) the term seems to have come from the Gascon wine-trade, as Skeat (Etym. Diet., 1910) points out, and was adapted from Prov. arracar, to decant wine, racat the stems and husks of grapes, dregs. Both (2) and (3) are in origin to be connected. The 0. E. reccan and Ger. rccken mean “ to stretch,” and so “ rack ” means something stretched out, a straight bar or rail, especially a toothed bar gearing with a cog-wheel, a framework of bars, as in the cradle of upright bars in which fodder can be placed for cattle, and the instrument of torture, which in Ger. is Recke or Rackbank. The “ rack ” for torture was an oblong frame of wood, slightly raised from the ground, having at one end a fixed bar to which the legs were fastened, and at the other a movable bar to which the hands were tied. By means of pulleys and levers this latter could be rolled on its own axis, thus straining the ropes till the sufferer’s joints were dislocated. Its first employment in England is said to have been due to John Holland, 4th duke of Exeter, constable of the Tower in 1447, whence it was popularly known as “ the Duke of Exeter’s daughter.”
In 1628 the whole question of its legality was raised by the attempt of the privy council to rack John Felton, the assassin of the duke of Buckingham. This the judges resisted, unanimously declaring its use to be contrary to the laws of England.
RACKETT, or Rackett-Bassoon (Fr. cervelas or cervelat; Ger. Rockett, Ranke(t or Wursifagoit), a kind of dwarf bassoon, now obsolete, with a body measuring only from 4^ to 11 in. in length, but nevertheless containing the necessary length of tubing to give the bassoon or contra-bassoon pitch. The rackett consists of a barrcl-like body, resembling the barrel drone of the musette (see Bagpipe), made of wood or ivory. Round a centre tube are grouped eight parallel channels of very narrow cylindrical bore communicating with each other and forming a continuous tube nine times the length of the small body.
A reed mouthpiece in combination with a cylindrical tube invests the latter with the acoustic properties of a closed pipe by creating a node at the mouthpiece end; the fundamental note given by such a tube is, therefore, an octave deeper in pitch than would be an open pipe of the same length. The bassoon has a conical bore and the properties of the open pipe,wherefore the aggregate lengthofthechannels in the rackett only requires to be half that of the bassoon, a physical phenomenon to which this curious freak owed its existence. In the rackett the holes arc bored obliquely through from the channels to the circumference—three in front for the left and three for the right hand, with an additional hole for the little finger; while at the back are placed the vent and three holes, one for the left thumb and two for the right, the second hole being controlled by the ball of the thumb. The rackett is^ played by means of a large double reed placed within a pirouette or cap, so that the lips do not come into contact with the reed, but only send a stream of compressed air into the pirouette, whereby the reed is set in vibration. The consequence of this principle of construction, peculiar to the bagpipe chaunter and drones (with a slight variation) and to cromornes, hautbois de Poitou and a tew other obsolete instruments, is that no harmonics can be obtained, since the vibrating length and the tension of the reed cannot be controlled by the player; the compass is therefore obtained by means of the fundamental and of the ten holes of the instrument, aided by cross-fingering.    (K. S.)
RACQUETS, or Rackets, a game played in an enclosed court with a ball and an implement with which the ball is struck called a racquet, from which the game.takes its name. The racquet@@1 is about 2| ft. long, the head, which was formerly pear-shaped, being in the modern racquet nearly circular, from 7 to 8 in. in diameter and tightly cross-strung with cat-gut.    The balls, which are about ij in.
in diameter, are made of strips of cloth tightly wound over each other, with a sewn covering of smooth white leather, the floor and walls of English courts being coloured black; in India, where the floor and walls of the court are painted
white, black balls are used. There are no regulation dimensions for a racquet court, nor for the racquet or ball, though substantial uniformity is observed in practice. The game is usually played either by two or by four players; and in England the court is the same for the four-handed and the two-handed game, the floor measuring usually 60 ft. by 30 ft., or occasionally an inch or two more each way; but in America larger courts measuring on the floor 80 ft. by 40 ft., a size formerly not
@@@ The word comes, through Fr. raquette, from Sp. and Port, raqueta. The origin is doubtful, but Arab. raka(l), palm of the hand, has been suggested; “ fives ” played with the hand long preceded the game with a bat; cf. also Fr. name for fives, paume„
uncommon in England, are sometimes built for the fou:-handed game. Modern racquet courts have four walls and a roof, though in India they are sometimes left unroofed for the sake of coolness. The floor, which must be perfectly level and smooth, should be made of cement; but is sometimes paved, with less perfect results. The floor cannot be too bard, since the faster the ball travels the better the game; similarly the walls, which should be built of masonry faced with cement and most carefully smoothed, cannot be too hard and fast. The front and side walls are about 30 ft. high, the back wall being about half that height, with a gallery for spectators (containing the marker’s and umpires’ box) above it. The court is entered by a door in the centre of the back wall, which when shut must be perfectly flush with that wall, and without any projecting handle. The court is lighted from the roof. The diagram (fig. 2) shows the divisions and markings of the court. On the front wall is fixed a wooden board, the upper edge of which, 26 in. from the floor, constitutes the “ play-line,” and which usually fills the whole space from that height to the floor; and at a height from the floor of 8 ft. or a few inches more is a second line, called the “ cut-line ” or “ service-line,” painted white or in colour. At a distance of 38 ft. (in a court 60 ft. by 30 ft.) from the front wall and parallel to it, a white line is painted on the floor from wall to wall, called the “short-line”; and from the centre of the short-line to the centre of the back wall is the “ fault-line,” dividing into two equal rectangles the space between the back wall and the short-line. These rectangles are the service-courts and are called the right-hand and left-hand court respectively.
Against the side walls outside these courts, but so that one side in each case is formed by the short-line, are squares 8 ft. by 8 ft. called the service-boxes.
The Game.—Racquets. is usually played either by two persons (“ singles ”), or four persons playing two against two (“ doubles ”); and the general idea of the game is the same as that in tennis, lawn tennis and fives, the object of the player in all these games being to score a point by striking the ball either before it reaches the ground or on its first bound, in accordance with the rules of the game, in such a way that his adversary may fail to make a “ good,” i.e. a valid, stroke in return. In the four-handed game one of each set of partners takes the right-hand court and his partner the left. The game consists of 15 points called “aces.” Aces can only be scored by the “ hand-in ” (the player, or side, having the “innings”), and the “ hand-out ” must therefore win a stroke or strokes to obtain innings before he or they can score an ace; in “ doubles ” each of the partners has an innings, and both must therefore be ousted before “hand-out” obtains the innings; but to this rule the first innings of each game affords an exception (see below). The “ hand-in ” always has “ service,” i.e. he opens the rally (the “ rally ” being the series of strokes made alternately by the two sides until one or other of them fails to make a good return) by “ serving ” the ball from the hand. This first stroke, or “ serve,” must be made in the following manner. The server, standing with one foot at least inside one of the service-boxes, must toss the ball from his hand, and while it is in the air he must hit it with his racquet so that it strikes the front wall above the service-line and falls to the floor within the service-court on the opposite side; after striking the front wall the ball may, but need not, strike the side wall or back wall, or both, and it may do so cither before or after touching the floor. The serve is a “ fault ” if the ball (1) strikes the front wall
above the board but on or below the scrvice-Iinc, in which case it is called a “ cut or (2) touches the floor on the first bound, outside the proper service-court, when it is called “ short ” or “ fault ” according to the position of its pitch (see below). If the “ hand-out ” player to whom the fault is served “ takes ” it (t.e. if he plays at it), the fault is condoned and the play proceeds as if the serve had been good. If, however, the fault be not taken, the server must serve again from the same box; and if he serves a second fault he loses his “ hand ” or innings, and his partner or his opponent, as the case may be, takes his place. Two consecutive faults have thus the same result as the loss of a stroke in the rally by the “ hand-in.” A serve which makes the ball strike the board, or the floor before reaching the front wall, or which sends it “ out-of-court ” (t.e. into the gallery or roof of the court), counts the same as two consecutive faults; it costs the server his innings. Skill in service is a most important part of proficiency in racquets; a player can hardly become first-rate unless he possesses a “ strong service.” As in tennis a great deal of “ cut ” may be imparted to the ball by the stroke of the racquet, which makes the ball in its rebound from the wall behave like a billiard ball carrying “ side ” when striking a cushion; and when this “ cut ” is combined with great pace in the bound of the ball off the side wall, the back wall, and the floor, at varying angles which the server has to a great degree under his control, it becomes exceedingly difficult for hand-out to “ get up ” the serve (i.e. to hit it on the first bound, sending it above the play-line on the back wall), and still more so to make a good stroke which will render it difficult for his adversary in his turn to get up the ball and thus continue the rally. It often happens, therefore, that a long sequence of aces, sometimes the whole 15 aces of a game, are scored consecutively by service which hand-out is unable to return. A noteworthy instance of successful service occurred in the semifinal tie of the doubles Amateur Championship matches at the Queen’s Club in 1897 when W. L. Foster opened service and scored all the aces in the first two games, and added six in the third, thus putting on a sequence of 36 aces before losing his “ hand.” To obtain first innings is therefore an initial advantage, although in doubles it is limited by the rule that only one partner shall have a “ hand ” (innings) in the opening service.
The question which side shall have this advantage is decided by spinning a racquet, the “ rough ” and “ smooth ” sides of which take the place of “ heads ” and “ tails ” when a coin is tossed. The side winning the spin opens the game by serving as described above. The server may begin in either of the service boxes; but when he has started, the service must proceed from the two boxes alternately till the close of the innings of the side, whether 'singles or doubles. When the other side obtains the innings they may in like manner begin in either box, without regard to where the last service of their opponents was delivered. In singles, hand-out changes sides in the court after each serve, answering to the change over of the server; in doubles the serve is taken alternately by the two hand-out players, who permanently occupy the right- and left-hand courts respectively, being allowed 10 change the order in which they receive the service only once in any game, or at the end of any game or rubber. Except in the very rare case of left-handed players most of the play in the left half of the court, including the taking of all service on that side, is back-handed; and the stronger of the two partners in back-hand play usually therefore takes the left-hand court. The best position in the court for the hand-out about to take the serve depends entirely on the nature of the service, and he has to use his judgment the instant the ball leaves the server’s racquet in order to determine where it will strike the floor and at what precise point in its course it will be best for him to attempt to take it. A strong fast service, heavily cut, that sends the ball darting round the corner of the court, leaving the back wall at an extremely acute angle, or dropping almost dead off it, can only be got up by standing near the back wall a long way across the court and taking the ball by a wrist stroke at the last instant before it falls to the ground a second time. On the other hand when the server avoids the side wall altogether and strikes the back wall direct and hard, whether he achieves a “ nick ” serve (i.e. the ball striking precisely in the angle between the back wall and the floor) or hits the wall high up, hand-out will have little time to spare in changing position to get within reach of. the balL Some good players make a practice wherever possible, especially in the case of heavily cut service, of taking the serve on the volley (t.c. before the ball reaches the ground), sometimes of taking the ball after it leaves the side wall and before it reaches the back wall; practice alone enables the player to decide with the necessary promptitude how each stroke is to be played. In returning the serve, or in playing any stroke during the rally, the ball may strike any of the other walls before the front wall; but though this “ boasted ” stroke is quite legitimate, and is sometimes the only way of getting up a difficult ball, it is not considered good style deliberately to slash the ball round the corners in order to keep it in the fore end of the court. Good play consists for the most part in hard low hitting, especially as close as possible along the side walls into the corners of the back wall. One of the most effective strokes in racquets is the “ drop,” which means that the ball is hit so that it only just reaches the front wall and drops close to it, while the player conceals his intention by appearing to strike hard. “ The drop-stroke,” says Mr Eustace Miles, who regrets that it is less cultivated than formerly, “ is one of the most beautiful, and of all drop-strokes, the volley or half-volley is the best.” The “ half-volley,” in which the ball is struck at the moment of its contact with the floor and before it has had time to rise, is also employed with great effect in hard play; it makes the return much quicker than when the ball is allowed to rise to the full length of the bound, and requires corresponding quickness on the part of the adversary. It sometimes happens, too, that the player finding himself too near the pitch of the ball to take it at the end of the bound, yet not near enough to volley it, is compelled to take it on the half-volley as the only chance of getting it up. Accuracy in volleying and half-volleying, especially if the ball be kept low, is a most difficult art to acquire, but a good long rally in which are included a number of hard rapid half-volleys within a couple of inches of the board, is the prettiest feature of the game.
If hand-out succeeds in returning the serve, the rally proceeds until one side or the other fails to make a good return. A good return means (1) that the ball is struck by the racquet before its second bound on the floor, and without its having touched any part of the clothes or person of the striker or his partner; (2) that it is hit against the front wall above the board without first touching the floor or going out of court; and (3) that it returns off the front wall into play (i.e. to the floor of the court or to an adversary’s racquet) without going out of court. If hand-in be the one to fail in making a good return, he loses his “ hand,” or innings, and (in singles) handout goes in and proceeds to serve; in doubles one of the hand-in partners loses his “ hand,” and the second partner goes in and serves till he in turn similarly loses his “ hand,” except that in the case of the opening service in the game there is (as already mentioned) only one “ hand ” in any event. If hand-out fails to make a good return to the serve or to any stroke in the rally, hand-in scores an ace, and the side that first scores 15 aces wins the game. When, however, the score reaches “ 13-all ” (f.e. when each side has scored 13 aces), handout may, before the next serve is delivered, declare that he elects to “ set ” the game either to 5 or 3, whichever he prefers; and similarly when the score stands at “ 14-all,” hand-out may “ set ” the game to 3. He makes this declaration by calling “set-51” or “sct-3!” and it means that 5 aces, or 3 aces, as the case may be, shall be required to wan the game.
In the confined space of a racquet court it is not always easy, especially in doubles, for the players to avoid obstructing each other. It is provided in the rules that “ each player must get out of his opponents’ way as much as possible,” and that it shall be a “ let ” (an Old English word for impediment or hindrance) and “ the service or rally shall count for nothing, and the server shall serve again from the same service-box,
(a) if the ball in play touch the striker’s opponent on or above the knee, and if in the marker’s opinion it be thereby prevented from reaching the front wall above the board (the playline); or (b) if either player undesignedly prevent his opponent from returning the ball served in play.” If a player considers that he has been thus obstructed by his opponent he may “claim a let,” and the marker adjudicates his claim. The marker’s decision is final; but “if in doubt which way to decide, the marker may direct that the ace be played over again.” It is the duty of the marker, who occupies a box in the gallery, to “call the game.” As soon as the server serves the ball the marker calls “Play!’.’ if the ball strikes the front wall above the service-line; and “Cut!” if it strikes below the serviceline; if the ball falls in front of the short-line the marker calls “Short!”; if the wrong side of the fault-line he calls “Fault!”; but whether it be “cut,” “short,” or “fault,” the serve counts as a fault in its effect. To every good return, as to every good serve, the marker calls “ Play! ” If a return is made after the second bound of the ball (called a “ double ”) the marker calls “Double!” or “Not up!”; if the ball is hit into the gallery, or against its posts or cushions, or above the girders or cross-beams of the roof, he calls “Out-of-court!” At the end of every rally he calls the state of the game, always naming first the score of hand-in:—“One-love” (love being the term for zero) meaning that hand-in has scored one ace and hand-out nothing, “Two-love,” “Five-all,” “Five-ten,” “Fourteen-eleven,” and so on, till one side has scored 15, when the marker calls “ Game! ” He then in similar fashion calls the it ate of the match—“ Two games to one,” or whatever it may be1 —before the commencement of the next game. The server in possession at the end of the game continues to serve in the new game, subject as before to the rule limiting the first innings of the game to a single u hand.” The usual number of games in matches is five for singles, and seven for doubles. In matches where there are umpires and a referee, there is an appeal to them from the marker’s decision except as regards questions relating to the service, on which the marker’s decision is final.
Records.—Attempts have been made to trace racquets, [ike tennis, to an ancient origin; but although it is doubtless true that the striking of a ball with the hand or some primitive form of bat is one of the oldest forms of pastimes, and that racquets has been evolved from such an origin, the game as now known can hardly be said to have existed before the rpth century. Joseph Strutt’s work on The Sports and Pastimes of the People of England, published at the beginning of the 19th century, makes no mention of racquets; and the century was far advanced before the racquet court was promoted from being an adjunct of the pot-house and the gaol, in which connexion the court within the purlieus of the Fleet prison has been immortalized in the pages of Pickwick, to a position scarcely less dignified than that of the tennis-court with its royal and historical associations. It was at the public schools that racquets first obtained repute. The school courts were at first unroofed, and in some cases open also at the back and sides, or on one side. Among the most famous of the early racquets professionals, before the period of the modem closed court, were Robert Mackay (1820), the brothers Thomas and John Pittman, J. Lamb, J. C. Mitchell and Francis Erwood (i860). One -of the most famous matches ever played at racquets was that in which Erwood was beaten by Sir William Hart-Dyke, who used the “ drop ” stroke with telling effect, and who, after representing Oxford in the first four interuniversity matches, was the only amateur racquet player who ever defeated the open champion. A notable date in the history of racquets was the year 1853, when the court at the old Prince’s Club in Hans Place, London, was built. Here the annual racquet matches between Oxford and Cambridge Universities, singles and doubles, were first played in 1858, and the Public Schools Championship (doubles only) ten years later. Modern racquets may perhaps be said to date from the time of the brothers Gray, who as professionals greatly raised the standard of skill in the game, and as teachers at the schools and universities improved the play of amateurs. William Gray beat Foulkes, the champion of America, in 1867; Henry Gray and Joseph Gray were also great players. The latter was beaten in 1875 by H. B. Fairs (“ Punch ”) but held the * championship from 1878 to 1887. Another member of the same family was Walter Gray, who was as distinguished for the power of his stroke as his brother William was for the accuracy of his if drop ” and the ease and grace of his volley and halfvolley. Walter Gray was followed in the championship by Peter Latham, the first professional to combine the open Tennis Championship with the Racquets Championship; and in the opinion of Mr Eustace Miles “ there has probably lived no player who could have beaten him at either game.” Latham was the first to use the heavily cut service at racquets, and he is also remarkable for the power of his wrist stroke. In the last twelve years or so of the 19th century Latham stood alone, and in the opinion of the best judges he was the greatest of all racquet players. When once he had won the championship he never lost it, and when at last he resigned his title he was succeeded by Gilbert Browne, a player of a decidedly inferior calibre, who in 1903 was challenged and beaten by an Indian marker called Jamsetji. For the next six years, during which Jam set ji held the championship, comparatively little was heard of professional racquets; but in 1909 interest was revived by a handicap at Queen’s Club for a prize of £100, in which Peter Latham himself took part, and which was won by Jennings of Aldershot. As a result of this contest a challenge was issued by W. Hawes, the marker at Wellington College, to play any other professional for £200 a side and the championship of England. The challenge was accepted by C. Williams, a young player of Prince’s Club, who easily won the match, and with it the title of champion.
The institution of annual matches between Oxford and Cambridge Universities in 1858, and of the Public Schools Championship in 1568, gave an immense stimulus to the game among amateurs. Of the 51 inter-university (singles) matches from 1858 to 1908, Oxford won 26 and Cambridge 25; of the 52 contests in doubles Oxford won 25 and Cambridge 27. Among the public schools Harrow has been far the most successful, having won the championship challenge ^ cup 19 times out of 42 contests. Moreover, under the condition permitting any school winning it in three consecutive years to retain the challenge cup permanently, Harrow became possessed of three cups, having won the championship 1871-1874 inclusive, 1879-1881 inclusive, and 1883-1887 inclusive. The^ next most successful school has been Eton, eight times champion; Charterhouse having won five times, and no other school more than^ three times. For the first twenty years of the contest, with a single exception when Rugby won in 1870, no school except Eton or Harrow gained the championship; and it is not surprising therefore that the majority of famous amateurs learnt the game at one or other of these schools. Among Etonians were W. Hart-Dyke, C. J. Ottaway, the Hon. Alfred Lyttelton, the Hon. Ivo Bligh (afterwards Lord Darnley), C. T. Studd and H. Philipson; Harrow has produced R. D. Walker, one of the best of the earliest amateur racquet players, C. F. Buller, T. S. Dury, A. J. Webbe, M. C. Kemp, E. M. Butler, the brothers Eustace Crawley and H. E. Crawley, C. D. Buxton, H. M. Leaf, Percy Ashworth and C. Browning. The famous Malvern family of Foster has been as conspicuous in the racquet court as on the cricket field, the eldest, H. K. Foster, being probably the finest amateur player of his generation. F. Dames Longworth, Major A. Cooper-Key, Colonel Spens, E. M.Baerlein and Eustace H. Miles have also been in the front rank of amateur players. The opening of the Queen’s Club, West Kensington, was a notable event in the history of the game, especially^ as^ it was followed by the establishment of amateur championships in singles and doubles in 1888, of which the results have been as follows:—
II. Doubles
1890.    P. Ashworth and W. C. Hedlcy.
1891.    P. Ashworth and E. L. Metcalfe.
1892.    E. M. Butler and M. C. Kemp.
1893.    F. H. Browning and H. K. Foster.
1894.    Η. K. Foster and F. C. Ridgeway.
1895.    F. Dames Longworth and F. H. Browning.
1896.    Η. K. Foster and P. Ashworth.
1897.    Η. K. Foster and P. Ashworth.
1898.    Η. K. Foster and W. L. Foster.
1899.    H. K. Foster and P. Ashworth.
1900.    Η. K. Foster and P. Ashworth.
1901.    F. Dames Longworth and V. H. Pennell.
1902.    E. M. Bacrlein and E. H. Miles.
1903.    Η. K. Foster and B. S. Foster.
1904.    E. H. Miles and E. M. Baerlein.
1905.    E. H. Miles and E. M. Baerlein.
1906.    E. H. Miles and F. Dames Longworth.
1907.    VV. L. Foster and B. S. Foster.
1908.    F. Dames Longworth and V. H. Pennell.
1909.    E. M. Baerlein and P. Ashworth.,
1910.    B. S. Foster and Hon. C. N. Bruce.
A military championship was inaugurated in 1903 and is played annually at Princes’ Club. In 1908, mainly through the exertions of Major A. Cooper-Key, a “ Tennis, Racquets and Fives Association ” was founded for the purpose of encouraging these games, safeguarding their interests and providing a legislative body whose authority would be recognized by all tennis and racquet players.
Racquets in America.—In the United States and in Canada racquets is a popular game, and most of the leading athletic clubs have good courts. The American champions Foulkes, Boakes and George Standing were all beaten* by English professionals, but had a great reputation in their own country; and Tom Pettitt, Ellis and Moore are names that stand high m the records of the game. Among American amateurs, Lamontayne did much to encourage racquets in New York in the early period of its history; and in more recent times Quincy Shaw, de Garmendia, R. Fearing, Payne Whitney, Mackay, L. Waterbury and P. D. Haughton have shown themselves racquet players of very high merit, although Mr Eustace Miles is of opinion that “an English player 1 ike Η. K. Foster, or Dames Longworth, or Ashworth, would give any American amateur upwards of seven aces.”
Squash racquels is a form of the game which provides admirable practice for the beginner, and has advantages of its own which offer attractions even to those who are proficient players of real racquets. It is played with a hollow india-rubber ball about the size of a fives ball (i.e. nearly twice the size of an ordinary racquet ball) and with a racquet rather shorter in the handle than those used in racquets proper. The court may be of any dimensions, but is always much smaller than a real racquet court; the squash ball, being not nearly so fast as the racquet ball, would not reach the back wall in a 60 ft. court on the first bound unless hit high as well as hard against the front wall. The rules of the game itself are precisely the same as in real racquets. Squash racquets originated at Harrow, where the boys were in the habit of playing in an improvised court in the corner of the school-yard against the old school building; the windows, buttresses and water-pipe on the face of the wall forming irregularities which developed great skill on the part of the players in taking advantage of the difficulties thus caused. The marked success of Harrow in the Public Schools Championship at racquets, especially during the first twenty years of its institution (see above), has been attributed to the early training and practice gained at squash racquets in the school-yard, and in other courts which came into use as the popularity of this form of the game increased. Towards the end of the 19th century squash racquets became adopted at other schools and at the universities; and as the court is much cheaper to build than that required for real or “ hard ball ” racquets, and the game is cheaper as well as easier to play, many private courts came into existence. On the initiative of Lord Desborough, who had learnt the game at Harrow, several squash courts were provided at the Bath Club, London, where handicap tournaments arc annually played. At Lord’s cricket ground, when a new pavilion was erected in 1890, squash racquet courts were included in the building. The dimensions of the courts at Lord’s, which may be taken as the best model, are as follows: length 42 ft. by 24 ft.; height of back wall 8 ft. 8 in.;
height of service-line from floor 8 ft. 9 in.; height of playline 2 ft. 4 in. The short-line is 23 ft. from the front wall. The place which squash racquets has come to occupy may be estimated from the fact that Mr. Eustace Miles pronounces it “ an almost indispensable preparation ” for tennis and racquets as those games are played under modem conditions; and the same authority sufficiently describes its merits when he observes that it “ gives, at a small cost of time or money, abundance-of hard and brisk and simple yet exciting exercise for all times of life, of the year, and even of the day—if we have good artificial light.” The squash courts at Lord’s and at the Bath Club are lighted by electricity, so that play is not dependent on the condition of the atmosphere, or on the season of the year.
See Tennis, Lawn Tennis, Rackets and Fives in the “ Badminton Library    Racquets, Tennis and Squash, by Eustace Miles (London,
1902); Sporting and Athletic Register (London, 1908).    (R. J. M.)
RADAUTZ, a town in Bukovina, Austria, 35 m. S. by \V. of Czernowitz by rail. Pop. (1900) 14,343, of which about 70% are Germans and 25% are Rumanians. It was formerly the seat of a Greek bishopric, removed to Czernowitz in 1786, and possesses a cathedral (1402) with the tombs of several Moldavian princes. The Austrian government has here a large stud. To the W. of Radautz are situated the old monasteries of Putna and Suczawica, dating from the 15th century. They still contain many old and valuable ecclesiastical objects of art, although a great part has been removed to the various monasteries in Moldavia.
RADBERTUS PASCHAS1US (d. c. 860), French theologian, was born at or near Soissons towards the close of the 8th century. He became a monk of Corbie, near Amiens in Picardy, in 814, and assumed the cloister name of Paschasius. He soon gained recognition as a learned and successful teacher, and the younger Adalhard, St Anskar the apostle of Sweden, Odo bishop of Beauvais and Warinus abbot of Corvei in Saxony may be mentioned among the more distinguished of his pupils. Between 842 and 846 be was chosen abbot, but as a disciplinarian he was more energetic than successful, and about 851 he resigned the office. He never took priestly orders. He died and was buried in Corbie.
Radbertus is one of the most important theologians in the history of the church. “ He was perhaps the most learned and able theologian after Alcuin, as well versed in Greek theology as he was familiar with Augustinianism, a comprehensive genius, who feltjthe liveliest desire to harmonize theory and practice, and at the same time give due weight to tradition ” (Harnack). His great work was the Liber de Cor pore et Sanguine Domini (first ed. 831; new ed., with an epistle to Charles the Bald, 844), which was not only the first systematic and thorough treatise on the sacrament of the eucharist, but is the first clear dogmatic statement of transubstantiation, and as such opened an unending controversy. It was at once attacked by Ratramnus and Hrabanus Maurus, but wr as so completely in touch with the practice of the church and the spirit of the age, as to wnn the verdict of Catholic orthodoxy.
On the eucharistic controversy see the article on Radbertus by Steitz in Herzog-Hauck’s Reai-Encyklopadie; Bach, Dogmen^e-schichte des Mittcl alters, i. 156 ff.; Ernst, Die Lehre des h. Paschasius Radbertus v. d. Eucharistic (1896); Renz, Die Geschichte des Messop-ferbegriffS' (1901); K. G. Goetz, Die Abendmahlsfroge in ihrer geschichtlichen Entwicklung (1904), a complete survey of the whole problem, beginning with Radbertus. A. Hamack’s treatment in his History of Dogma (vol. v., p. 308 ff.) is clear and appreciative.
RADCL1FFE, ANN (1764-1823), English novelist, only daughter of William and Ann Ward, was bom in London on the 9tb of July 1764. She was the author of three famous novels: The Romance of the Forest (1791), The Mysteries of Udolpho (1794) and The Italian (1797). When she was twenty-three years old she married William Radcliffe, an Oxford graduate and student of law. He gave up his profession for literature, and afterwards became proprietor and editor of the English Chronicle. After The Italian she gave up writing for publication, and was reported to have been driven mad
by the horrors of her own creations, but the nearest approach to eccentricity on Mrs Radcliffe's part was dislike of public notice. Of scenery Mrs Radcliffe was an enthusiastic admirer, and she made driving tours .with her husband every other summer through the English counties. She died on the 7th of February 1823. In the history of the English novel, Mrs Radcliffe holds an interesting place. She is too often confounded with her imitators, who vulgarized her favourite “ properties ” of rambling and ruinous old castles, dark, desperate and cadaverous villains, secret passages, vaults, trapdoors, evidences of deeds of monstrous crime, sights and sounds of mysterious horror. She deserves at least the credit of originating a school of which she was the most distinguished exponent; and none of her numerous imitators approach her in ingenuity of plot, fertility of incident or skill in devising apparently supernatural occurrences capable of explanation by human agency and natural coincidence. She had a genuine gift for scenic effect, and her vivid imagination provided every tragic situation in her stories with its appropriate setting. Sir Walter Scott wrote an appreciative essay for the edition of 1824, and Miss Christina Rossetti was one of her admirers. She exercised a great influence on her contemporaries, and “ Schedoni '' in The Italian is one of the prototypes of the Byronic hero.
RADCLIFFE, SIR GEORGE (1593-1657), English politician, son of Nicholas Radcliffe (d. 1599) of Overthorpe, Yorkshire, was educated at Oldham and at University College, Oxford. He attained some measure of success as a barrister, and about 1626 became the confidential adviser of Sir Thomas Wentworth, afterwards earl of Strafford, who was related to his wife, Anne Trappes (d. 1659). Like his master he was imprisoned in 1627 for declining to contribute to a forced loan, but he shared the good, as well as the ill, fortunes of Wentworth, acting as his adviser when he was president of the council of the north. When Wentworth was made lord deputy of Ireland, Radcliffe, in January 1633, preceded him to that country, and having been made a member of the Irish privy council he was trusted by the deputy in the fullest possible way, his advice being of the greatest service. In 1640, Radcliffe, like Strafford, was arrested and was impeached, but the charges against him were not pressed, and in 1643 he was with Charles I. at Oxford. He died at Flushing in May 1657. Radcliffe wrote An essay towards the life of my Lord Strajfordj from which the material for the various lives of the statesman has been largely taken.
See Sir T. D. Whitaker, Life and Correspondence of Sir G. Radcliffe (1810).
RADCLIFFE, JOHN (1650-1714), English physician, was born at Wakefield in 1650. He matriculated at University College, Oxford, and after taking his degree in 1669 was elected to a fellowship at Lincoln College, which he gave up in 1677 when, under the statutes of the college, he was called on to take orders. Graduating in medicine in 1675, he practised first in Oxford, but in 1684 removed to London, where he soon became one of the leading physicians. He frequently attended William III. until 1699, when he caused offence by remarking, as he lookfed at the King's swollen ankles, that he would not have his legs for his three kingdoms.- On the 1st of November 1714 he died of apoplexy at his house in Carshalton. By his will he left property to University College for founding two medical travelling fellowships and for other purposes. Other property was put at the disposal of his executors to use as they thought best, and was employed, among other things, in building the Radcliffe Observatory, Hospital and Library at Oxford, and in enlarging St Bartholomew's Hospital in London. Radcliffe was elected M.P. for Bramber in 1690 and for Buckingham in 1713.
RADCLIFFE, an urban district in the Radcliffe-cum-Farnworth parliamentary division of Lancashire, England, on the river Irwell, 2 m. S.SAW of Bury, on the Lancashire & Yorkshire railway. Pop. (1901) 25,368. The church of St Bartholomew dates from the time of Henry IV.; some of the Norman portions of the building remain. Cotton-weaving, calico-printing, and bleaching, dyeing, paper-making, ironfounding and machine-making are the principal industries, and there are extensive collieries in the neighbourhood.
RADEBERG, a town of Germany, in the kingdom of Saxony, pleasantly situated in a fertile district on the Roder, 10 m. N.E. of Dresden, by the railway to Gorlitz and Breslau. Pop. (1905) 13,301. It has an Evangelical and a Roman Catholic church, and an old castle. Its principal industries are the manufacture of glass, machinery, furniture and paper, and it produces a light Pilsener beer which is largely exported. Near the town are the Augustusbad and the Hermannsbad, two medicinal springs.
RADEGUNDA, ST (d. 587), Frankish queen, was the daughter of Berthaire, king of the Thuringians. Berthaire was killed by his brother Hermannfried, who took Radegunda and educated her, but was himself slain by the Frankish kings Theuderich and Clotaire (529), and Radegunda fell to Clotaire, who later married her. Her piety was already so noteworthy that it was said that Clotaire had married a nun, not a queen. She left him when he unjustly killed her brother, and fled to Medardus, bishop of Poitiers, who, notwithstanding the danger of the act, consecrated her as a nun. Radegunda stayed in Poitiers, founded a monastery there, and lived for a while in peace. Here Venantius Fortunatus, the Italian poet, found a friendly reception, and two of the poems printed under his name are usually attributed to Radegunda. From him we gain a most pleasing picture of life at the monastery. The queen died on the 13th of August 587.    «
See the references in A. Molinier, Sources de Vhisloire de France.
RADETZKY, JOSEF, Count of Radetz (1766-1858), Austrian soldier, was born at Trzebnitz in Bohemia in 1766, to the nobility of which province his family, originally Hungarian, had for several centuries belonged. Orphaned at an early age, he was educated by his grandfather, and after the old count's death, at the Theresa academy at Vienna. The academy was dissolved during his first year's residence, and he joined the army as a cadet in 1785. Next year he became an officer, and in 1787 a first lieutenant in a cuirassier regiment. He served as a. galloper on Lacy's staff in the Turkish War, and in the Low Countries during the Revolutionary War. In 1795 he fought on the Rhine. Next year he served with Beaulieu against Napoleon in Italy, and inwardly rebelled at the indecisive % cordon " system of warfare which his first chief, Lacy, had instituted and other Austrian generals only too faithfully imitated. His personal courage was conspicuous; at Fleurus he had led a party of cavalry through the French lines to discover the fate of Charleroi, and at Valeggio on the Mincio, with a few hussars, he rescued Beaulieu from the midst of the enemy. Promoted major, he took part in Wurmser's Mantua campaign, which ended in the fall of the place. As lieutenant-colonel and colonel he displayed both bravery and skill in the battles of the Trebbia and Novi (1799), and at Marengo, as colonel on the staff of Melas, he was hit by five bullets, after endeavouring on the previous evening to bring about modifications in the plan suggested by the “ scientific " Zach. In 1801 Radetzky received the knighthood of the Maria Theresa order. In 1805, on the march to Ulm, he received news of his promotion to major-general and his assignment to a command in Italy under the archduke Charles, and thus took part in the successful campaign of Caldiero. Peace again afforded him a short leisure, which he used in studying and teaching the art of war. In 1809, now a lieutenant field marshal, he fought at Wagram, and in 1810 he received the commandership of the Maria Theresa order and the colonelcy of the 5th Radetzky hussars. From 1809 to 1812, as chief of the general staff, he was active in the reorganization of the army and its tactical system, but, unable to carry out the reforms he desired owing to the opposition of the Treasury, he resigned the post. In 1813 he was Schwarzenberg's chief of staff, and as such had considerable influence on the councils, of the Allied sovereigns and generals. Langenau, the quartermaster-general of the Grand Army, found him an indispensable assistant, and he had a considerable share in planning the Leipzig campaign and as a tactician won great praises in the-
battles of Briennc and Arcis sur Aube. He entered Paris with the allied sovereigns in March 1814, and returned with them to the congress of Vienna, where he appears to have acted as an intermediary between Metternich and the czar Alexander, when these great personages were not on speaking terms.
During the succeeding years of peace he disappeared from the public view. He resumed his functions as chief of the staff, but his ardent ideas for reforming the army came to nothing in the face of the general war-weariness and desire to “ let well alone.” His zeal added to the number of his enemies, and in 1829, after he had been for twenty years a lieutenant field marshal, it was proposed to place him on the retired list. The emperor, unwilling to go so far as this, promoted him general of cavalry and shelved him by making him governor of a fortress. But very soon afterwards the Restoration settlement of Europe was shaken by fresh upheavals, and Radetzky was brought into the field of war again. He took part under Frimont in the campaign against the Papal States insurgents, and succeeded that general in the chief command of the Austrian army in Italy in 1834. In 1836 he became a field marshal. He was now seventy years of age, but he displayed the activity of youth in training and disciplining the army he commanded. But here too he was in advance of his time, and the government not only disregarded his suggestions and warnings but also refused the money that would have enabled the finest army it possessed to take the field at a moment’s notice. Thus the events of 1848 in Italy, which gave the old field marshal his place in history among the great commanders, found him, in the beginning, not indeed unprepared but seriously handicapped in the struggle with Charles Albert’s army and the insurgents. How by falling back to the Quadrilateral and there, checking one opponent after another, he was able to spin out time until reinforcements arrived, and how thenceforward up to the final triumph of Novara on the 23rd of March 1849, he and his army carried all before them, is described in the article Italian Wars. The well-disciplined sense of duty to the superior officer, which was remarked even in the brilliant and sanguine young army reformer of 1810, had become more intense in the long years of peace, and after keeping his army loyal in the midst of the confusion of 1848, he made no attempt to play the part of Wallenstein or even to assume Wellington’s r61e of family adviser to the nation. While as a patriot he dreamed a little of a united Germany, he remained to the end simply the commander of one of the emperor’s armies. He died, still in harness, though infirm, on the 5th of January 1858.
In military history Radetzky’s fame rests upon one great achievement, but in the history of the Austrian army he lives as the frank and kindly “ Vater Radetzky ” whom the soldiers idolized. He was fortunate in the moment of his death. In the year following, another and a greater Italian war broke out, his beloved army, disintegrated by peace economies which the old field marshal had been unable any longer to redress by ceaseless personal training, and in addition suffering from divided command and confused staff wbrk, was defeated in every encounter.
RADEVORMWALD, a town of Germany, in the Prussian Rhine province, 10 m. E. from Remscheid, on the branch line of railway from Krebsoge. Pop. (1905) 10,978. It consists of the town proper and of several suburbs, and has five Evangelical and two Roman Catholic churches. Its chief manufactures are skates, files, locks and similar articles, and it has also cloth and cotton factories.
Sec J. H. Becker, Geschichte der Stadt Radevorrmoald (Cologne, 1864).
RADHANPUR, a native state of India, in the Palanpur agency, Bombay. It is situated in the north-western corner of Gujarat, close to the Runn of Cutch. The country is an open plain without hills and with few trees. It contains an area of 1150 sq. m. with a population in 1901 of 61,548, showing a decrease of 37% during the decade, due to the results of famine. The estimated revenue is £27,000. The chief products are cotton, wheat and the common varieties of grain; the only manufacture
of any importance is the preparation of a fine description of saltpetre. Radhanpur first came under British protection in 1813. The chief, whose title is Nawab, belongs to the Babi family, who have held power in Gujarat for more than two centuries. The town of Radhanpur had a population in 1901 of 11,879. It is a walled town, with an export trade in rape-seed, grain and cotton.
RADIATA, a term introduced by Cuvier in 1812 to denote the lowest of his four great animal groups or “ cmbranche-ments. ” He defined them as possessing radial instead of bilateral symmetry, and as apparently destitute of nervous system and sense organs, as having the circulatory system rudimentary or absent, and the respiratory organs on or coextensive with the surface of the body; he included under ' this title and definition five classes,—Echinodermata, Acalepha, Entozoa, Polypi and Infusoria. Lamarck (Hist. nat. d. Anim. s. Vertbbres) also used the term, as when he spoke of the Medusae as radiata medusaria el anomala; but he preferred the term Radiaria, under which he included Echinodermata and Medusae. Cuvier’s term in its wide extension, however, passed into general use; but, as the anatomy of the different forms became more fully known, the difficulty of including them under the common designation made itself increasingly obvious. Milne-Edwards removed the Polyzoa; the group was soon further thinned by the exclusion of the Protozoa on the one hand and the Entozoa on the other; while in 1848 Leuckart and Frey clearly distinguished the Coclenterata from the Echinodermata as a separate sub-kingdom, thus condemning the usage by which the term still continued to be applied to these two groups at least. In 1855, however, Owen included under Lamarck’s term Radiaria the Echinodermata, Anthozoa, Acalepha and Hydrozoa, while Agassiz also clung to the term Radiata as including Echinodermata, Acalepha and Polypi, regarding their separation into Coelenterata and Echinodermata as “ an exaggeration of their anatomical differences ” (Essay ott Classification, London, 1859). These attempts, however, to perpetuate the usage were finally discredited by Huxley’s important Lectures on Comparative Anatomy (1864), in which the term was finally abolished, and the “ radiate mob ” finally distributed among the Echinodermata, Polyzoa, Vermes (Platyhelminthes), Coelenterata and Protozoa.
RADIATION, THEORY OF. The physical activities that flourish on the surface of the earth derive their energy, in a form which is highly available thermodynamically, from the radiation of the sun. This has been ascertained to be dynamic energy, transmitted in waves by the vibrations of a medium occupying space, as the energy of sound is transmitted by the vibrations of the atmosphere. The elasticity that transmits it may be assumed to be mathematically perfect: any slight loss in transit of the light from the most distant stars, which recent statistical comparisons of brightness with distance may possibly indicate, is to be explained far more suitably by the presence of nebulous matter than by any imperfection of the aether. The latter would thus be the one perfect frictionless medium known to us: it could not be such if it were constituted, like matter, of independent molecules. It is thus on a higher plane, and may even be considered to be a dynamical specification of space itself. A molecule of matter is a kinetic system compounded of simpler elements; its energy may be classified into constitutive energy essential to its continued existence, and vibratory energy which it can receive from or radiate away into aether. A piece of matter isolated in free aether would in time lose all energy of the latter type by radiation; but the former will remain so long as the matter persists, along with the energy of the uniform translatory motion to which it is ultimately reduced. Thus all matter is in continual exchange of vibratory energy with the aether: it is with the laws of this exchange of energy that the general theory of Radiation deals, as distinguished from the mechanism of the aethereal vibrations* which is usually treated as the Theory of Light (sec Aether).
i. The foundation of this subject is the principle, arrived
at independently by Balfour Stewart and Kirchhoff about the year 1858, that the constitution (§ 6) of the radiation which pervades an enclosure, surrounded by bodies in a steady thermal state, must be a function of the temperature of those bodies, and of nothing else. It was subsequently pointed out by Stewart (Brit. Assoc. Report, 1871) that if the enclosure contains a radiating and absorbing body which is put in motion, all being at the same temperature, the constituents of the radiation in front of it and behind it will differ in period on account of the Doppler-Fizeau effect, so that there will be an opportunity of gaining mechanical work in its settling down to an equilibrium; there must thus be some kind of thermodynamic compensation, which might arise either from aethereal friction, or from work required to produce the motion of the body against pressure exerted on it by the surrounding radiation. The hypothesis of friction is now excluded in ultimate molecular physics, while the thermodynamic bearing of a pressure exerted by radiation, such as is demanded by Maxwell’s electric theory, has been more recently developed on other lines by Bartoli and Boltzmann (1884), and combined with that of the Doppler effect by W. Wien (1893) in development of the ideas above expressed.
The original reasoning of Stewart and Kirchhoff rests on the dynamical principle, that by no process of ordinary reflexion or transmission can the period, and therefore the wave-length, of any harmonic constituent of the radiation be changed; each constituent remains of the same wave-length from the time it is emitted until the time it is again absorbed. If we imagine a field of radiation to be enclosed within perfectly reflecting walls, then, provided there is no material substance in the field which can radiate and absorb, the constitution of the radiation in it may be any whatever, and it will remain permanent. It is only the presence of material bodies that by their continued emission and absorption can transform the surrounding radiation towards the unique constitution which corresponds to their temperature. We can define the temperature of an isolated field of radiation, of this definite ultimate constitution, to be* the same as that of the material bodies with which it would thus be in equilibrium. Further, the mutual independence of the various constituents of any field of radiation enclosed by perfect reflectors allows us to assign a temperature to each constituent, such as the part involving wave-lengths lying between X and X+ÔX; that will be the temperature of a material system with which this constituent by itself is in equilibrium of emission and absorption. But to reason about the temperature of radiation in this way we must be sure that it completely pervades the space, and has no special direction; this is ensured by the continual reflexions from the walls of the enclosure. The question of the temperature of a directed wave-train travelling through space, such as a beam of light, will come up later. The temperature of each constituent in a region of undirected radiation is thus a function of its wave-length and its intensity alone. It is the fundamental principle of thermodynamics, that temperatures tend to become uniform. In the present case of a field of radiation, this equalization cannot take place directly between the various constituents of the radiation that occupy the same space, but only through the intervention of the emission and absorption of matèrial bodies; the constituent radiations^ are virtually partitioned off adiabatically from direct interchange. v Thus in discussing the transformations of temperatures of the constituent elements of radiation, we are really reasoning about the activity of material bodies that are in thermal equilibrium with those constituents; and the theoretical basis of the idea of temperature, as depending on the fortuitous residue of the energy of molecular motions, is preserved.
2. Mechanical Pressure of Undulalory Motions.—Consider a wave-train of any kind, in which the displacement is £ = a cos m(x-\-ct) so that it is propagated in the direction in which x decreases; let it be directly incident on a perfect reflector travelling towards it with velocity 1/, whose position is therefore given at time t by x = vt. There will be a reflected train given by £' = a' cos m'(x-ct), the velocity of propagation c being of course the same for both. The disturbance does not travel into the reflector, and must therefore be annulled at its surface; thus when x=vt we must have £+£'=o identically. This gives a' = -a, and m'(c-v) = m(c+v). The amplitude of the reflected disturbance is therefore equal to that of the incident one; while the wave-length is altered on the ratio
which is approximately 1-2^, where v/c is small, and
is thus in agreement with the usual statement of the Doppler effect. The energy in the wave-train being half potential and half kinetic, it is given by the integration of p(d£ldt)2 along the train, where p represents density. In the reflected train it is therefore augmented, when equal lengths are compared, in the
ratio i —-1 ; but the length of the train is diminished by
the reflexion in the ratio ; hence on the whole the
energy transmitted per unit time is increased by the reflexion in
the ratio    This increase per unit time can arise only
c — v
from work done by the advancing reflector against pressure exerted by the radiation. That pressure, per unit surface, must
2
therefore be equal to the fraction of the energy in a length
c2 —u2
c+v of the incident wave-train; thus it is the fraction ——-
c2 *f-ir
of the total density of energy in front of the reflector, belonging to both the incident and reflected trains. When v is small compared with c, this makes the pressure equal to the density of vibrational energy, in accordance with Maxwell’s electrodynamic formula (Elec, and Mag., 1871).
The argument may be illustrated by the transverse vibrations of a tense cord, the reflector being then a lamina through a small aperture in which the cord passes; the lamina can thus slide along the cord and sweep the vibratory motion in front of it. In this case the force acting on the lamina is the resultant of the tensions T of the cord on the two sides of the aperture, giving a lengthwise force §T¿(£+i')2 /<W when, as usual, powers higher than the second of the ratio of amplitude to wave-length are neglected; this, when v/c is small, is an oscillatory force of amount 2p(d%ldt)2 , whose time-average agrees with the value above obtained. If we consider a finite train of waves thus sent back from a moving reflector, the time integral of the pressure must represent force transmitted along the cord, or a gain of longitudinal momentum in the reflected waves, or both together.
When it is a case of transverse waves in an elastic medium, reflected by an advancing obstacle, the origin of. the working pressure is not so obvious, because we cannot easily formulate a mechanism for the advancing reflector like that of the lamina above employed. In the case of light-waves we can, however, imagine an ideal material body, constituted of very small molecules, that would sweep them in front of it with the same perfection as a metallic mirror actually reflects the longer Hertzian waves. The pressure will then be identified physically, as in the case of the latter waves, with the mechanical forces acting on the screening oscillatory electric current-sheet which is induced on the surface of the reflector. The displacement represented above by £, which is annulled at the reflector, may then be taken to be either the tangential electric force or the normal component of the vector whose velocity is the magnetic force. The latter interpretation is theoretically interesting, because that vector, which is the dynamical displacement in electron-theory, usually occurs only through its velocity. The general case of oblique incidence can be treated on similar lines; each filament of radiation (ray) in fact exerts its own longitudinal push equal to its energy per unit length, and it is only a matter Df summation.
The usual formula for the pressure of electric radiation is
derived from a theory, namely, that of the ordinary electrodynamic equations, which considers the velocity of the matter, or rather of the electrons associated with it, to be so small compared with that of radiation that the square of the ratio of these velocities can be neglected. The formula above obtained is of general application, and shows that for high values of v the pressure must fall off. It has been urged as an objection to the thermodynamic reversibility of a ray (§ S) that the-work of the radiant pressure exerted at its front is lost, as there is no obstacle to sustain it; but on an obstacle moving with the. velocity of the wave-front the pressure would vanish, so that this objection does not now hold.
In every such case of an advancing perfect reflector the aggregate amplitude of the superposed incident and reflected wave-trains, of different wave-lengths and periods, will be represented by
. , ..    , tnv , c2 x . me , v
t+t = 2α sin-(x - ~t) sin-\x-vt)\
s s    c-ι; v c-v 1
thus the appearance presented will be that of a train of waves each of length (i-v/c)2T/m, and progressing with the velocity u of the reflector, which travels at one of the nodes of the train. This slowly travelling wave-train corresponds to the stationary train which would be produced by a stationary perfect reflector; but the amplitude is now a varying quantity which, once uniform vibration has been fully established along any path, may itself be described as running on after the manner of a superposed wave-train of very great wave-length (c/v-i)2v/m and of very great velocity c2 /v. A somewhat similar state of things arises when a wave-train is incident on a stationary reflector very nearly normally, as may sometimes be seen with incoming rollers along a shelving beach; the visible disturbance at a reflecting ridge, arising from each single wave-crest, then rushes along the ridge at' a speed which is at first sight surprising, as it is enormously in excess of the speed possible for any simple train of waves travelling into quiescent aether.
3. Wien's Law.—Let us consider a spherical enclosure filled with radiation, and having walls of ideal perfectly reflecting quality so that none of the radiation can escape. If there is no material body inside it, any arbitrarily assigned constitution of this radiation will be permanent. Let us suppose that the radius a of the enclosure is shrinking with extremely small velocity u. A ray inside it, incident at angle 1, will always be incident on the walls in its successive reflexions at the same angle, except as regards a negligible change due to the motion of the reflector (§ 2); and the length of its path between successive reflexions is 2a cos 1. Each undulation on this ray will thus undergo reflexion at intervals of time equal to 2a cos t/c, where c is the velocity of light, and it is easily verified that on each reflexion it is shortened by the fraction 20 cos ι/c of itself: thus in the very long time T required to complete the shrinkage it is shortened by the fraction υΤα, which is δα/α where δα is the total shrinkage in radius, and is independent of the* value of t. The wave-length of each undulation in the radiation inside the enclosure is therefore reduced in the same ratio as the radius. Now suppose that the constitution of the enclosed radiation corresponded initially to a definite temperature. During the shrinkage thermal equilibrium must be maintained among its constituents; otherwise there would be a running down of their energies towards uniformity of temperature, if material radiating bodies are present, which would be superposed on the mechanical operations belonging to the shrinkage, and the process could not be reversible. Such a state of affairs is not possible, for it would land us in processes of the following type. Expand the enclosure, gaining the mechanical work of the radiant pressure against its walls, whatever that may be. Then equalize the intensities of the constituent radiations to those corresponding to a common temperature, by taking advantage of the absorptions of material bodies at the actual temperatures of these radiations; when this is done, as it may actually be to some extent by aid of the sifting produced by partitions which transmit some kinds of radiation more rapidly than others, a
further gain of work can be obtained at the expense of the radiant energy. Then contract the remaining radiant energy to its previous volume, which requires an expenditure of less work on the walls of the enclosure than the expansion of the greater amount of radiation originally afforded; and, finally, gain still more wf ork by again equalizing the temperatures of its constituents. The energy now remaining, being of smaller amount and under similar conditions, must have a temperature lower than the initial one. This process might be repeated indefinitely, and would constitute an engine without an extraneous refrigerator, violating Carnot's principle by deriving an unlimited supply of mechanical work from thermal sources at a uniform temperature.
Thus, independently of any knowledge of the intensity of the mechanical pressure of radiation, or indeed of whether such a pressure exists at all, it is established that the shrinkage of the enclosure must directly transform the contained radiation to the constitution which corresponds to some definite new temperature. Now we have seen that the wave-lengths of its constituents are all reduced in the same ratio by this process. If, then, we can prove that the intensities of these constituents are also all changed in a common ratio by the reflexions at the shrinking envelope, it will follow that the distributions of the radiation among the various wave-lengths arc, at these two temperatures, and therefore at any two temperatures, homologous, in the sense that the intensity curves, after the wave-lengths in one of them have been reduced in a ratio depending definitely on the two temperatures, differ only in the absolute scale of magnitude of the ordinates.
This procedure modifies Wien’s argument by employing a uniformly shrinking spherical enclosure (cf. Bril. Assoc. Report, 1900). If the enclosure is not spherical, the angles of incidence at successive reflexions of the same ray will differ by finite amounts; we must then estimate the average effect of the shrinkage. In the form of enclosure here employed all rays are affected alike, and no averaging is required; while by the principle of Stewart and Kirchhoff what is established for any one form is of general validity.
4.    Pressure of Natural Radiation.—The question reserved above has now to be settled. At first sight it might have appeared that the reflexion is simply total; but, as has been seen in § 2, the advancing perfect reflector does work against the pressure of the radiation, and this work must be changed into radiant energy and thus go to increase the intensity of the reflected ray. Considering electric radiation incident at angle t, the tangential electric force is annulled at the reflector; hence the amplitude of the electric vibration is conserved on reflexion, though its phase is reversed. As already seen, the wave-length is shortened approximately by the fraction 20 cos t/c in each reflexion; thus, just as in § 2, the energy transmitted per unit time per unit area is increased in the same ratio; and allowing for the factor cos 1 of foreshortening, there is therefore a radiant pressure equal to the total density of radiant energy in front of the reflector multiplied by cos5 t. This argument, being independent of the wave-length, applies to each constituent of the radiation in this direction separately; thus their energies arc all increased in the same ratio by the reflexion, as was to be proved. When we are dealing with the natural radiation in an enclosure, which is distributed equally in all directions, this factor cos2 i must be averaged; and we thus attain Boltzmann’s result that the radiant pressure is then one-third of the density of radiant energy in front of the reflector, this statement holding good as regards each constituent of the natural radiation taken separately.
5.    Adiabatic Relations.—Consider the enclosure filled with radiation of energy-density E at volume V, of any given constitution but devoid of special direction, and let it be shrunk to volume V-5V against its own pressure; if the density thereby become E - 5E, the conservation of the energy requires
EV+JE5V=(E-5E)(V-5V), so that 3E5V+V5E=o, or E varies as V"*.
Again—but now with a restriction to radiation with its energy
distributed as regards wave-length so as to be of uniform temperature—the performance of this mechanical work JE5V has changed the energy of radiation EV from the state that is in equilibrium of absorption and emission with a thermal source at temperature T to the state in equilibrium with an absorber of some other temperature T-5T, and that in a reversible manner; thus by Carnot’s principle
JE5V/EV = - 5T/T,
so that T varies as V_i , or inversely as the linear dimensions when the enclosure is shrunk uniformly.
Combining these results, it appears that E varies as T4 ; this is Stefan’s empirical law for the complete radiation corresponding to the temperature, first established on these lines by Boltzmann. Starting from the principle that this radiation must be a function of the temperature alone, this adiabatic process has in fact given us the form of the function. These results cannot, however, be extended without modification to each separate constituent of the complete radiation, because the shrinkage of the enclosure alters its wave-length and so transforms it into a different constituent.
6.    Law of Distribution of Energy.—The effect of compressing the complete radiation is thus to change it to the constitution belonging to a certain higher temperature, by shortening all its wave-lengths by the proportion of one-third of the compression by volume, the temperature being in fact raised by the same proportion; at the same time increasing in a uniform ratio the amounts corresponding to each interval 5A, so as to get the correct total amount of energy for the new temperature. In the compression each constituent alters so that TA remains constant, and the energy Ea5A in the range 5A in other respects changes as a function of T alone. Hence generally Ea5A must
be of form F(T)/(TA)5A. But, for each temperature JoEa 5A is equal to E and so varies as T4 , by Stefan’s law; that is, T-'F(T)I/(TX)<i(TX) ocT1 ,
so that T^FfT) ocT4 . Thus, finally, EaSA is of form ATf /(TA)5A or AA-6 0(TA)5A, which is Wien’s general formula.
7.    Transformation of a Single Constituent.—It is of interest to follow out this adiabatic process for each separate constituent of the radiation, as a verification, and also in ■ order to ascertain whether anything new is thereby gained. To this end let now E(A,T)5A represent the intensity of the radiation between A and A+5A which corresponds to the temperature T. The pressure of this radiation, when it is without special direction, is in intensity one-third of this; thus the application of Carnot’s principle shows, as before, that in adiabatic compression T ocV"i, so that a small linear shrinkage in the ratio i-x raises T in the ratio i+x. We have still to express the equation of energy. The vibratory energy E(A,T)5A . V in volume V, together with the mechanical work £E(A,T)5A. 33V, yields the vibratory energy
E{\(i -*), T(i+»))5X(i -*). V(i -3*); thus, writing E and Ex or E (X,T) we have, neglecting x1 ,
E(i +x) = (E - x^+xT^Xt - 4*),
so that    5E+X^LT!j!=o,
a partial differential equation of which the integral is
E = AA~5 <£(TA),
the same formula as was before obtained.
This method, treating each constituent of the radiation separately, has in one respect some advantage, in that it is necessary only to postulate an enclosure which totally reflects that constituent, this being a more restricted hypothesis than an absolutely complete reflector.
To determine theoretically the form of the function <j> we must have some means of transforming one type of radiation into another, different in essence from the adiabatic compression already utilized. The condition that the entropy of the independent radiations in an enclosure 'is a minimum when they are all transformed to the same temperature with total energy unaltered, is already implicitly fulfilled; it would thus appear that any further advance must involve (§ 11) the dynamics of the radiation and absorption of material bodies.
8. Temperature of an Isolated Ray.—The temperature of each independent constituent of a radiation has here been taken to be a function of the intensity Ea, where Ea5A is the energy per unit volume in the range between wave-lengths A and A+5A; the condition is, however, imposed that this radiation is indifferent as to direction. When a beam of .radiation travels without, loss in a definite direction across a medium, its form varies as it progresses; but it is reversible inasmuch as it can be turned back at any stage, or concentrated without loss, by perfect reflectors. If the energy of the beam has a temperature, its value must therefore remain constant throughout the progress of the beam, by the principle of Carnot. Now by virtue of a relation in geometrical optics, which on a corpuscular theory would be one aspect of the fundamental dynamical principle of Action, the cross-section 5S at any place on the beam, and the conical angle Sco within which the directions of its rays are there included, are such that the value of V^SSSco is conserved along the beam, V being the velocity of propagation of the undulations. If we' represent the amount of radiant energy transmitted per unit time across the section 5S of the beam by I5S5to, it will follow that in passing along the beam its intensity of illumination I varies as V“2 , or as the square of the index of refraction, provided there is no loss of energy in transmission. This condition requires that changes of index shall be gradual, otherwise there would be loss of energy by partial reflexions; in free aether I is itself constant along the beam. The volume-density of the energy in any part of the directed beam is V_1 I5co: it is thus inversely as the solid angular concentration of the rays and directly as the cube of the index of refraction. Now wT e may consider this beam, of aggregate intensity I5S5co, to form an elementary filament of the radiation issuing in the direction of the normal from a perfect radiator. As such a body absorbs completely and therefore radiates equally in all directions in front of it, the total intensity of radiation from its element of surface 5s is 5s Jl cos 05co, or 5s. ttI, while the volume-density of the total advancing and receding radiation in front of it is 2\~1 Jldo3, and therefore 47rV^I. If we take here 15A to represent the intensity between wave-lengths A andA+5A, this density is the quantity Ea of which the temperature of the radiator is a function. Thus the quantity I—which optically is a measure of the brightness of the beam, and is conserved along it to the extent that ¿¿2 I is the same from whichever of its cross-sections the beam is supposed to be emitted—also determines its .temperature, the latter being that of an enclosure containing undirected radiation of the same range 5A which is density Ea5A given by Ea=47tV“1 I, where V is the velocity of radiation in the enclosure. When a beam of radiation travels without suffering absorption, its temperature thus continues to be that of its source multiplied by the coefficient of emission of the source for that kind of radiation, this coefficient being less than unity except in the case of a perfect radiator; but when its intensity I falls by 51 in any part of its path owing to absorption or other irreversible process, this involves a further fall of temperature of the energy of the beam and a rise of entropy which can be completely determined when the relation connecting ¿T3 Ea with T and A is known. Any directed quality in radiant energy increases its effective temperature. Splitting a beam into two at a reflecting and refracting’ surface diminishes the temperature of each part; it is true that if the reflecting surface were non-molecular the operation could be reversed, but actually the reversed rays would encounter the reflecting molecules in different collocations, and could not (§ n) recombine into the same detailed phase-relations as before. The direct solar radiation faffing on the Earth is almost completely convertible into mechanical effect on account of its very high temperature; there seems ground for believing that certain constituents of it can actually be almost wholly turned to account by the
green leaves of plants. But the same solar radiation, when broken up into diffused sky light, which has no definite direction, has fallen into equilibrium with a much lower temperature, through loss of its reversibility. It has been remarked that the temperatures of the planets can be roughly compared by means of this principle, if their coefficients of absorption of the solar radiation are assumed; that of Neptune comes out below — 2oo° C., if we suppose that it is not kept higher by a supply of internal heat.
To obtain dynamical precision in this discussion an exact definition of the narrow beam such as is usually called a ray is essential. It can be specified as a narrow filament of radiation, such as may be isolated within an infinitely thin, impermeable, bounding tube without thereby producing any disturbance of the motion. If either the tube or the surrounding radiation were not present to keep the beam in shape, it would spread sideways, as in optical diffraction. But the function of tiie tube is one of pure constraint; thus the change of energy-content of a given length of the tube is represented by energy flowing into it at the end where the radiation enters, and leaving it at the other end, but with no leakage at the sides. The total radiation may be* considered as made up of such filaments.
9.    Temperature of the Sun.—The mean temperature of the radiating layers of the Sun may be estimated from Stefan’s law, by computing the intensity of the radiation at bis surface from that terrestrially observed, on the basis of the law of inverse squares; the result is about 6500° C. The application of Wien’s law, which makes the wave-length of maximum energy vary inversely as the temperature, for the case of a perfectly radiating source, gives a result 5500° C. These numbers will naturally differ because (i) the Sun is not a perfect radiator, the constitution of his radiation in fact not following the law of that of a black body, (ii) the various radiating layers have different temperatures, (iii) the radiation may be in part due to chemical and electrical causes, and in so far would not be determined by the temperature alone. The fair agreement of these two estimates indicates, however, that the radiation is largely regulated by the temperature, that the layers from which the main part of it comes are at temperatures not very different, and that not very much of the complete radiation established in these layers and emitted from them is absorbed by the overlying layers.
10.    Fluorescence.—When radiation of certain wave-lengths falls on a fluorescent body, it is largely absorbed, but in such manner as directly to excite other radiation of different type which is emitted in addition to the true temperature-radiation of the body. The distinction involved is that the latter radiation is spontaneously convertible with the heat of the absorbing body at its own temperature, without any external stimulus or compensation; it is, in fact, on the basis of this convertibility that the thermodynamic relations of the temperature-radiation have been established. According to the experimental law of Stokes, the wave-lengths of the fluorescent radiation are longer than those of the radiation which excites it. If the latter were directly transformed, in undiminished amount, into the fluorescent kind, this is what would be expected. For such a spontaneous change must involve loss of availability; and, beyond the wave-length of maximum energy in the spectrum, the temperature of a given density of radiation is greater the shorter its wave-length, as it is a function of that density and the wave-length alone such that greater radiation always corresponds to higher temperature. But it would appear that the opposite should be the case for radiation of long wavelengths, lying on the other side of the maximum, in which the tendency would thus be for spontaneous change into shorter waves; this may perhaps be related to the fact that the lines of longer wave-lengths in spectra often come out brighter at lower temperatures, for they are then thrown on the other side of the maximum and cannot be thus degraded. The principle does not, however, have free play in the present case, even when the incident radiation is diffused and so has not the abnormally high temperature associated with a directed beam
(§ 8), since part of it might be degraded into low-temperature heat, or there might be other compensation of chemical type for any abnormally high availability that might exist in the fluorescent radiation. It has been found that fluorescent radiation, showing a continuous or banded spectrum, can be excited in many gases and vapours; milky phosphorescence of considerable duration, and thus doubtless associated with chemical change, is produced in vacuum tubes, containing oxygen or other complexly constituted gases, by the electric discharge.
ii. Entropy of a Ray.—If each definitely constituted beam of radiation has its own temperature and everything is reversible as above, a question arises as to the location of the process of averaging which enters into the idea of temperature. The answer can depend only on the fact, that although the beam is definite as to wave-length and intensity, yet it is far from being a simple wave-train, in that it is constituted of trains of limited lengths and various phases and polarizations, coming from the independent radiating molecules. When such a beam has once emerged, it travels without change, and can be reflected back intact to its source, and is in so far reversible; but when it has arrived there, the molecules of the source will have changed their positions, and it cannot be wholly reabsorbed t  in the same manner as it was emitted. There must thus be some feature in the ultimate averaged constitution of the beam, emitted from a body in the definite steady state of internal motion determined by its temperature, which adapts it for spontaneous uncompensated reabsorption into a body at its own (or a lower) temperature, but not at a higher one.
The question of the determination of the form of the function φ in § 6 would thus appear to be closely connected with the other problems, hitherto imperfectly fathomed, relating to the statistics of kinetic molecular theory. A very interesting attack on the problem from this point of view has recently been made in various forms by Planck. It of couj^e suffices to examine some simple type of radiating system, and the results will be of general validity. He considers an enclosure filled with radiation involving an entirely arbitrary succession of phases and polarizations along each ray, and also containing a system of fixed linear electric oscillators of the Hertzian type, which are taken to represent the transforming action of radiating and absorbing matter. The radiation contained in the enclosure will be passed through these oscillators over and over again, now absorbed, now radiated, and each constituent will thus settle down in a unilateral or irreversible manner towards some definite intensity and composition. But it does not appear that a system of vibrators of this kind, each with its own period, can perform one of the main functions of a material absorber, namely, the transformation of the relative intensities of the various types of radiation in the enclosure to those corresponding to a common temperature. There would be equilibrium established only between the mean internal vibratory energy in the vibrators of each period and the density of radiation of that period; there is needed also some means of interchanging energy between vibrators of different periods, which probably involves doing away with their fixity, or else employing more complex vibrators and assuming a law of distribution of their internal energy. In the absence of any method of introducing this temperature equilibrium directly, Planck originally sought, in the case of each independent constituent, for a function of its intensity of energy and its wave-length, restricted as to form by a certain assumed molecular relation, which has the property of continually increasing after the manner of entropy, during the progress of that constituent of the radiation in such a system towards its steady state. If the actual entropy S per unit volume could be thus determined, the relation of Clausius 6S=8EsT would supply the connexion between the temperature and the density of radiant energy E. This procedure led him, in an indirect and tentative manner, to a relation <PS/<fE*=-a/E, so that S=-aE logjSE, where a, β are functions of λ; an expression which conducts through Clausius’s relation to E —
The previous argument then gives E(X,T)5X = CiX~5 e_ ^/AT 6X, a type of formula which was originally suggested by Wien on the basis of the analogy that it assigns the same distribution for the radiant energy, among the various frequencies of vibration, as for the energy of the molecules in a gas among their various velocities of translation. But the experimental inadequacy of this formula afterwards suggested a new procedure, as infra.
Processes may be theoretically assigned for the direct continuous transformation of radiant into mechanical energy. Thus we can imagine a radiating body at the centre of a wheel, carrying oblique vanes along its circumference, which reflect the^ radiation on to a ring of parallel fixed vanes, which finally reverse its path and return it to the centre. The pressure of the radiation will drive the wheel, and in case its motion is not resisted, a very great velocity may be theoretically obtained. The thermodynamic compensation in such cases lies in the reduction of the effective temperature of the portion of the radiation not thus used up. We might even do away with the radiating body at the centre of the wheel, and consider a beam of definite radiation reflected backwards and forwards across a diameter. It is easy to see that its path will remain diametral; the work done by it in driving the wheel will be concomitant with increase of the wave-length, and therefore with expansion of the length occupied by the beam. The thermodynamic features are thus analogous to those of the more familiar case of an envelope filled with gas, which can change its thermal energy into mechanical energy by expansion of the envelope against mechanical resistances. In the case of the expanding gas pv~ fE0 , where E0 is the^total trans-latory energy of the molecules, while in adiabatic expansion p — kv-v. Thus the work gained in unlimited expansion, fpdv, is §E0 /(y— i). The final temperature being absolute zero, this should by Carnot’s principle be equal to the total initial energy of the gas that is in connexion with temperature, constitutive energy of the molecules being excluded; when y — i is less than f there is thus internal thermal energy in the molecules in addition to the translatory energy. In the ease of the beam of radiation, of length l, between n and n+Sn reflexions, where 6« is an integer, its total energy E is
by § 2 reduced according to the law ^5 = —    Also
thus ~=—j. When v is small compared with c, this gives
E = k/-2 ; and p is then 2E//, so that fpdl — E, the temperature of the beam being ultimately reduced to absolute zero by the unlimited expansion. This is in accord with Carnot’s principle, in that the whole energy of the beam travelling in a vacuum is mechanically available when reduction to absolute zero of temperature is in our power.
12. Experimental Knowledge.—Under the stimulus of Wien’s investigation and of improvements in the construction of linear thermopiles and bolometers for the refined measurement of the distribution of energy along a spectrum, the general character of the curve connecting energy and wave-length in the complete radiation at a given temperature has been experimentally ascertained over a wide range. At each temperature there is a wave-length Xm of maximum radiation, which is displaced towards the ultra-violet as the temperature rises, and Wien’s law of homology (§ 6) shows thatXm T should be constant. This deduction, and the law of homology itself, as also the law of Stefan and Boltzmann that the total radiation varies as T4 , have-been closely verified by the experiments of Rubens and Kurlbaum, Lummer and Pringsheim, Paschen and others. They established a steady field of radiation inside a material enclosure by raising the walls to a definite temperature, and measured the radiant intensity emitted from it through an opening or slit in the walls, by means of a bolometer or thermopile, this being the radiation of the so-called perfectly black body. The principle here involved formed one of the foundations of Balfour Stewart’s early treatment of the theory, and had already been employed by him and Stokes (i860) in experiments on the polarized emission from tourmaline: cf. Stokes, Math, and Phys. Papers, iv. 136. It has been remarked by Planck and by Thiesen that the coefficient of T* in Stefan’s law, and the value of Xm T, are two absolute physical constants independent of any particular kind of- matter, which in conjunction with the constant of gravitation would determine an entirely absolute system of physical units. The form of the function <£(TX) adopted by Wien and in Planck’s earlier discussions, namely, Cie~€ ^K , was found to agree fairly with experiment over the range from ioo° C. to 1300° C., when Ci= i-24Xio~5 , and c = 1-4435 in e.g.s. measure, but not so well when the range is farther extended: it appeared that a larger value of c was needed to represent the- radiation for high values of TX, that is, for high temperature or for very long wave-lengths. Thiesen proposed the somewhat more general form Ci(TX)*e“c/TA , and suggested that the value k= \ agrees better with the experimental numbers than Wien’s value k = o. Lord Rayleigh was led (Phil. Mag., June 1900) towards this form with k equal to unity from entirely different theoretical considerations, on the assumption of the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution of the energy of a system, consisting of an isolated block of aether, among its free periods of vibration, infinite in number; in some cases this form appeared to give as good results as Wien’s own.
Acting on a suggestion advanced by Lord Rayleigh, Rubens and Kurlbaum soon afterwards widely extended the test of the formulae by means of the so-called Reststrahlen. A substance such as an aniline dye, which exhibits selective absorption of any group of rays, also powerfully reflects those rays; and Rubens has been able thus to isolate in considerable purity the rays belonging to absorption bands very far down in the invisible ultra-red, having wave-length of order io"? cm., which are intensely absorbed by substances such as sylvine, by means of five or six successive reflexions of the beam of radiation. By experiments ranging between temperatures -200° C. and + 1500° C. of the source of radiation, it has been found that the intensity of this definite radiation tends to vary simply as T, with close approximation, thus increasing indefinitely with the temperature, whereas Wien’s formula would make it tend to a definite limit. The only existing formula (except the one suggested by Lord Rayleigh) that proved to be in accord with this result was a new one advanced shortly before and supported on theoretical grounds by Planck, namely, EaSX= CX“6 SX/(ec/AT — 1), which for small values of XT agrees with Wien’s original form, known to be there satisfactory, while for larger values it tends towards C/c.X“4 T; the new formula is, in fact, the simplest and most likely form that satisfies these two conditions. The point of Lord Rayleigh’s argument was that, at any rate at low frequencies, the law of distribution would suggest an equable partition of the energy between temperature heat and radiant vibrations, and that therefore the energy of the latter should ultimately vary as T; and this prediction, which has thus been verified, may be grafted on to any formula that is in other respects appropriate.
Recognizing that his previous hypothesis, restricting the nature of the entropy in addition to its property of continually increasing, had thus to be abandoned, Planck had in fact made a fresh start on the basis of a train of ideas which was introduced by Boltzmann in 1877, in order to obtain a precise physical conception of entropy. According to the latter, for an indefinitely numerous system of molecules, with known properties and in given circumstances, there is a definite probability of the occurrence of each statistical distribution of velocities, or say each “ complexion ” of the system, that is formally possible when all velocities consistent with given total energy are considered to be equally likely as regards each molecule; the distribution of greatest possible probability is the state of thermal equilibrium of the system, and the probability of any other state is a function of the entropy of that state. This conception can be developed only in very simple cases; the application to an ideal monatomic gas-system led Boltzmann to take the entropy proportional to the logarithm of the probability. This logarithmic law is in fact demanded in advance by the principle that the entropy of a system should be the sum of the entropies of its parts. By means of a priori considerations of this nature, referring to the distribution of internal vibratory energy among a system of linear electric vibrators of given period, and its equilibrium of exchanges with the surrounding radiant energy, Planck has been guided to an expression for the law of dependence of the entropy of that system on the temperature, which corresponds to the form of the law of radiation above stated. The result gains support from the fact that the expressions for the coefficients to which he is led give determinations of the
absolute physical constants of molecular theory, such as the constant of Avogadro, which arc in close accord with other recent determinations. But on the other hand these determinations are already involved in the earlier formula of Rayleigh, which expresses the distribution for long waves, based merely on the Maxwell-Boltzmann principle of the equable partition of the energy among the high free periods belonging to the enclosure which contains it. It is maintained by Jeans that the reason why this principle is of avail only for very long wavelengths is that a steady state is never reached for the shorter ones, a doctrine which as he admits would entirely remove the foundations of the application of thermodynamic principles to this subject. By an argument based on the theory of dimensions, Lorentz has been led to the conclusion that consistency between temperatures, as measured molccularly, and as measured by the laws of radiation, requires that the ultimate indivisible electric charges or electrons must be the same in all kinds of matter.
The abstract statistical theory of entropy, which is here invoked, admits of generalization in a way which is a modification of that of Planck, itself essentially different from the earlier idea of Boltzmann. The molecules of matter, whose interactions control physical phenomena, including radiation, are too numerous to be attended to separately in our knowledge. They, and the phenomena in which they interact, must thus be sorted out into differential groups or classes. Elements of energy of specified types might at first sight constitute such classes: but the identity of a portion of energy cannot be traced during its transformations, while an element of physical disturbance can be definitely followed, though its energy changes by interaction with other elements as it proceeds. The whole disturbance may thus be divided into classes, or groups of similar elements, each with permanent existence: and these may be considered as distributed in series of cells, all equivalent in extent, which constitute and map out the material system or other domain of the phenomena. The test of this equivalence of extent is superposition, in the sense that the same element of disturbance always occupies during its wanderings the same number of cells. This framework being granted, the probability of any assigned statistical distribution of the elements of disturbance now admits of calculation; and it represents, as above, the logarithm of the entropy of that distribution, multiplied .however by a coefficient which must depend on the minuteness of scale of the statistics. But in the calculation, all the physical laws which impose restrictions on the migrations of the elements of disturbance must be taken into account; it is only after this is done that the rest of the circumstances can be treated as fortuitous. All these physical laws are, however, required and used up in determining the complex of equivalent cells into which the system which forms the seat of the energy is mapped out. On this basis thermodynamics can be constructed in a priori abstract fashion, and with deeper and more complete implications than the formal Carnot principle of negation of perpetual motions can by itself attain to. But the ratio of the magnitude of the standard element of disturbance to the extent of the standard cell remains inherent in the results, appearing as an absolute physical constant whose value is determined somehow by the other fundamental physical constants of nature. A prescribed ratio of this kind is, however, a different thing from the hypothesis that energy is constituted atomically, which underlies, as LorenU pointed out, Flanck's form of the theory. It has indeed already been remarked that the mere fact of the existence of a wave-length Xm of maximum radiation, whether obeying Wien's law Xm T=constant or not, implies by itself some prescribed absolute physical quantity of this kind, whose existence thus cannot be evaded, though wc may be at a loss to specify its nature.
13. Modification by a Magnetic Field.—The theory of exchanges of radiation, which m^tkes the equilibrium of radiating bodies depend on temperature alone, requires that, when an element of surface of one body is radiating to an element of surface of another body at the same temperature, the amounts of energy interchanged (when reflexion is counted in along with radiation) should be equal. This proposition is a general dynamical consequence—on the basis of the laws of reciprocity developed in this connexion (after W. Rowan Hamilton) mainly by Helmholtz, Kirehhoff, and Rayleigh—of the form of the equations of propagation of vibrations in the medium. But in a material medium under the influence of a strong magnetic field these equations arc altered by the addition of extraneous terms involving differential coefficients of the third order, and the dynamical consistency of the cardinal principle of the theory of exchanges is no longer thus directly verified. A system of this kind has, in fact, been imagined by Wien in which the principle is imperfectly fulfilled. A beam coming from a body A, and polarized by passage through a nicol, may have its plane of vibration rotated through half a right angle by crossing a magnetically active plate, and may then pass through another nicol, properly orientated for transmission, so as finally to fall on another body B. On the other hand, the radiation from B which gets through this adjacent nicol will have its plane of vibration rotated through another half right angle by the magnetically active plate, and so will not get through the first nicol to the body A. Such possibilities of unequal exchange of radiation between A and B are the result of the want of reversibility of the radiation in the extraneous magnetic field, which might have been expected to lead to proportionate inequalities of concentration; in this example, however, though the defect of reversibility is itself slight, its results appear at first sight to prevent any equilibrium at all. But a closer examination removes this discrepancy. In order to make the system self-contained, reflectors must be added to it, so as to send back into the sources the polarized constituents that are turned aside out of the direct line by the nicols. Then, as Brillouin has pointed out, and as in fact Rayleigh had explained * some years before, the radiation from B does ultimately get across to A after passage backward and forward to the reflectors and between the nicols: this, it is true, increases the length of its path, and therefore diminishes the concentration of a single narrow beam, but any large change of path would make the beam too wide for the nicols, and thus require other corrections which may be supposed to compensate. The explanation of the slight difference that is to be anticipated on theoretical grounds might conceivably be that in such a case the magnetic influence, being operative on the phases, alters the statistical constitution of the radiation of given wave-length from the special type that is in equilibrium with a definite temperature, so that after passage through the magnetic medium it is not in a condition to be entirely absorbed at that temperature; there would then be some other element, in addition to temperature, involved in equilibrium in a magnetic field. If this is not so, there must be some thermodynamic compensation involving reaction, extremely small, however, on the magnetizing system.
14. Origin of Spectra.—In addition to the thermal radiations of material substances, those, namely, which establish temperature-equilibrium of the enclosure in which they are confined, there are the fluorescent and other radiations excited by extraneous causes, radiant or electric or chemical. Such radiations are an indication, by the presence of higher wave-lengths than belong in any sensible degree to the temperature, that the steady state has not arrived; they thus fade away, either immediately on the cessation of the exciting cause, or after an interval. The radiations, consisting of definite narrow bright bands in the spectrum, that are characteristic of the gaseous state in which each molecule can vibrate freely by itself, are usually excited by electric or chemical agency; thus there is no ground for assuming that they always constitute true temperature radiation. The absorption of these radiations by strata of the same gases at low temperatures seems to prove that the unaltered molecules themselves possess these free periods, which do not, therefore, belong specially to dissociated ions. Although very difficult to excite directly, these free vibrations are then excited and absorb the energy of the incident waves, under the influence of resonance, which naturally becomes extremely powerful when the tuning is exact; this
indicates, moreover, that the true absorption bands in a gas of sufficiently low density must be extremely narrow. There is direct evidence that many of the more permanent gases do not sensibly emit light on being subjected to high temperature alone, when chemical action is excluded, while others give in these circumstances feeble continuous spectra; in fact, looking at the matter from the other side, the more permanent gases are very transparent to most kinds of radiation, and therefore must be very bad radiators as regards those kinds. The dark radiation of flames has been identified with that belonging to the specific radiation of their gaseous products of combustion. There is thus ground for the view that the impacts of the colliding molecules in a gas, or rather their mutual actions as they swing sharply round each other in their orbits during an encounter, may not be sufficiently violent to excite sensibly the free vibrations of the definite periods belonging to the molecules. But they may produce radiation in other ways. While the velocity of an electron or other electric charge is being altered, it necessarily sends out a stream of radiation. Now the orbital motions of the electrons in an actual molecule must be so adjusted, as appears to be theoretically possible, that it does not emit radiation when in a steady state and moving with constant velocity. But in the violent changes of velocity that occur during an encounter this equipoise will be disturbed, and a stream of radiation, without definite periods, but such as might constitute its share of the equilibrium thermal radiation of the substance, may be expected while the encounter lasts. At very high temperatures the energy of this thermal radiation in an enclosure entirely overpowers the kinetic energy of the molecules present, for the former varies as T4 , while the latter measures T itself when the number of molecules remains the same. The radiation which can be excited in gases, confined as it is to extremely narrow bands in the spectrum, may indeed be expected to possess such intensity as to be thermally in equilibrium with extremely high temperatures. That the same gases absorb such radiations when comparatively cold and dark does not, of course, affect the case, because emissive and absorptive powers are proportional only for incident radiations of the intensity and type corresponding to the temperature of the body. Thus if our adiabatic enclosure of § 3 is prolonged into a tube of unlimited length which is filled with the gas, then when the temperature has become uniform that gas must send back out of the tube as much radiation as has passed down the tube and been absorbed by it; but if the tube is maintained at a lower temperature, it may return much less. The fact that it is now possible by great optical dispersion to make the line-spectra of prominences in the middle of the Sun’s disk stand out bright against the background of the continuous solar spectrum, shows that the intensities of the radiations of these prominences correspond to a much higher temperature than that of the general radiating layer underneath them; their luminosity would thus seem to be due to some cause (electric or chemical) other than mere temperature. On the other hand, the general reversing gaseous layer which originates the dark Fraunhofer lines is at a lower temperature than the radiating layer; it is only when the light from the lower layers is eclipsed that its own direct bright-line spectrum flashes out. It is not necessary to attribute this selective flash-spectrum to temperature radiation; it can very well be ascribed to fluorescence stimulated by the intense illumination from beneath. When the radiation in a spectrum is constituted of wide bands it may on these principles be expected to be in equilibrium with a lower temperature than when it is constituted of narrow lines, if the total intensity is the same in the cases compared; this is in keeping with the easier excitation of band spectra (cf. the banded absorption spectra), and with the fact that various gases and vapours do appear to emit band spectra more or less related to the temperature.
15. Constitution of Spectra.—In the problem of the unravelling of the constitutions of the very complex systems of spectral lines belonging to the various kinds of matter, considerable progress has been made in recent years. The beginning of definite knowledge was the discovery of Balmer in 1885, that the frequencies of vibration (n) of the hydrogen lines could be represented, very closely and within the limits of error of observation, by the formula n oc 1 - 4»r2 , when for m is substituted the series of natural numbers 3, 4, 5, ... 15. Soon afterwards series of related lines were picked out from the spectra of other elements by Liveing and Dewar. Rydberg conducted a systematic investigation on the basis of a modification of Balmer’s law for hydrogen, namely, «=«o“N/(th+/z)2 . He found that in the group of alkaline metals three series of lines exist, the so-called principal and two subordinate series, whose frequencies fit approximately into this formula, and that similar statements apply to other natural groups of elements; that the constant N is sensibly the same for all series and all substances, while n0 and /x have different values for each; and that other approximate numerical relations exist. In each series the lines of high frequency crowd together towards a definite limit on the more refrangible side; near this limit they would, if visible, constitute a band. The principal or strongest series of lines shows reversal very readily. The lines of the first subordinate series are usually nebular, while those of the second subordinate or weakest series are sharp; but with a tendency to broaden towards the less refrangible side. In most series there are, however, not more than six lines visible: helium and hydrogen are exceptions, no fewer than thirty lines of the principal series of the latter having been identified, the higher ones in stellar spectra only. But very remarkable progress has recently been made by R. W. Wood, by exciting fluorescent spectra in a metallic vapour, and also by applying a magnetic field to restore the lines sensitive to the Zeeman effect after the spectrum has been cut off by crossed nicols. The large aggregates of lines thus definitely revealed are also resolved by him into systems in other ways;, when the stimulating light is confined to one period, say a single bright line of another substance, the spectrum excited consists of a limited number of lines equidistant in frequency, the interval common to all being presumably the frequency of some intrinsic orbital motion of the molecule. In this way the series belonging to some of the alkali metals have been obtained nearly complete.
Simultaneously with Rydberg, the problem of series was attacked by Kayser and Runge, who, in reducing their extensive standard observations, used the formula »=A+Bfr2 +Cwfi , higher terms in this descending series being presumed to be negligible. This cannot be reconciled with, Rydberg’s form, which gives on expansion terms involving w~3 ; but for the higher values of m the discrepancies rapidly diminish, and do not prevent the picking out of the lines, the frequency-differences between successive lines then varying roughly as the inverse squares of the series of natural numbers. For low values of m neither mode of expression is applicable, as was to be expected; and it remains a problem for the future to ascertain if possible the rational formula to which they are approximations. More complex formulas have been suggested by Ritz and others, partly on theoretical grounds.
Considered dynamically, the question is that of the determination of the formula for the disturbed motions of the system which constitutes the molecule. Although we are still far from any definite line of attack, there are various indications that the quest is a practicable one. The lines cf each series, sorted out by aid of the formulae above given, have properties in common: they are usually multiple lines, either all doublets in the case of monad elements, or generally triplets in the case of those of higher chemical valency; in very few cases are the series constituted of single lines. It is found also that the components of all the double or triple lines of a subordinate series are equidistant as regards frequency. In the case of a related group of elements, for example the alkaline metals, it appears that corresponding series are displaced continually towards the less refrangible end as the atomic weight rises; it is found also that the interval in frequency between the double
lines of a series diminishes with the atomic weight, and is proportional to its square. These relations suggest that the atomic weight might here act in part after the manner of a load attached to a fundamental vibrating system, which might conceivably he formed on the same plan for all the metals of the group; such a load would depress all the periods, and at the same time it would split them up in the manner above described, if it introduced dissymmetry into the vibrator. The discovery of Zeeman that a magnetic field triples each spectral line, and produces definite polarizations of the three components, in many cases further subdividing each component into lines placed usually all at equal intervals of frequency, is explained, and was in part predicted, by Lorentz on the basis of the electron theory, which finds the origin of radiation in a system of unitary electric charges describing orbits or executing vibrations in the molecule. Although these facts form substantial sign-posts, it has not yet been found possible to assign any likely structure to a vibrating system which would lead to a frequency formula for its free periods of the types given above. Indeed, the view is open that the group of lines constituting a series form a harmonic analysis of a single fundamental vibration not itself harmonic. If that be so, the intensities and other properties of the lines of a series ought all to vary together; it has in fact been found by Preston, and more fully verified by Runge and others, that the lines are multiplied into the same number of constituents in a magnetic field, with intervals in frequency that are the same for all of them. When the series consists of double or triple lines the separate components of the same compound line are not affected similarly, which shows that they are differently constituted. The view has also found support that the different behaviours of the various groups of lines in a spectrum show that they belong to independent vibrators. The form of the vibration sent out from a molecule into the aether depends on the form of the aggregate hodograph of the electronic orbits, which is in keeping with Rayleigh’s remark that the series-laws suggest the kinematic relations of revolving bodies rather than the vibrations of steady dynamical systems.
According to Rydberg, there is ground for the view that a natural group of chemical elements have all the same type of series spectrum, and that the various constants associated with this spectrum change rapidly in the same directions in passing from the elements of one group to the corresponding ones of the following groups, after the manner illustrated in graphical representations of Mendelecff’s law by means of a continuous wavy curve in which each group of elements lies along this same ascending or descending branch; the chemical elements thus being built up in a series of types or groups, so that the individuals in successive groups correspond one to one in a regular progression, which may be put in evidence by connecting them by transverse curves. Illustrations have been worked out mathematically by J. J. Thomson of the effect of adding successive outer rings of electrons to stable vibrating collocations.
The frequencies of the series of very close fines which constitute a single band in a banded spectrum are connected by a law of quite different type, namely, in the simpler cases n2 = A-Bm2 . It may be remarked that this is the kind of relation that would apply to a row of independent similar vibrators in which the neighbours exert slight mutual influence of elastic type. If ξ denote displacement and x distance along the row,
the equation    would represent the general fea-
dr    ax*
turcs of their vibration, the right-hand side arising from the mutual elastic influences. If the ends of the line of vibrators, of length /, arc fixed, or if the vibrators form a ring, the appropriate type of solution is £oosin/i*5in />/, where μΙ = ηιπ and m is
integral; further - />2 +&! — gy?, hence p1 —k*-    m2 , which is of
the type above stated. Dynamical systems of this kind are illustrated by the Lagrangcan linear system of connected bodies,
such as, for example, a row of masses fixed along a tense cord, and each subject to a restoring elastic force of its own in addition to the tension of the cord. A single spectral line might thus be transformed into a band of this type, as the. effect of disturbance arising from slight elastic connexions established in the molecule between a system of similar vibrators. But the series in line-spectra arc of entirely different constitution; thus for the scries expressed by the formula p1 =p0 1 - Bm_!  the corresponding period-equation might be expressed in some such form as sin k(p*- p0 *)~$ — constant, which belongs to no type of vibrator hitherto analysed.
Authorities.—The experimental memoirs on the constitution of radiation are mostly in the Annalen der Physik; references are given by P. Drude, Lehrbuch der Optik, Leipzig, 1900; cf. also reports in the collection issued by the International Congress of Physics, Paris, 1900. See also Lord Rayleigh’s Scientific Papers, in various connexions; and Larmor, in Brit, Assoc, Reports, 1900-i()02, also the Bakeriah Lecture, Roy. Soc, Proc,t 1909, for a general discussion of molecular statistical theory in this connexion. Planck’s Theorie der Warmestrahlung, 1906, gives a discussion from his point of view; there is a summary by Wien in Ency. Math. IPfsj. v. (3) pp. 282-357; also a lecture of H. A. Lorcntz to the Math. Congress at Romef> 1908, and papers by J. H. Jeans, Phil. Mag., 1909, on the partition of energy. In spectrum analysis Kayser’s extensive treatise is the standard authority. WincKel-mann’s Handbuch der Physik, vol. ii. (by Kayser, Drude, &c.)( may also be consulted.    (J. L.*)
RADICAL (Lat. radix, a root), in English politics, a term applied to politicians who desire to make thorough, or radical, changes in the constitution and in the social order generally. Although it had been used in a somewhat similar way during the reign of Charles II., the term Radical, in its political sense, originated about the end of the 18th century, probably owing its existence to Charles James Fox, who, in 1797, declared that “ radical reform ” was necessary. The ideas of the first Radicals were borrowed largely from the authors of the French Revolution. The word was more generally employed during the disturbed period between the close of the Napoleonic wars and the passing of the great Reform Bill of 1832, and was applied to agitators like Henry Hunt and William Cobbett. After the Reform Bill had become law, the advocates of violent change were drawn into the Chartist movement, and the Radicals became less revolutionary both in speech and object. Thus in 1842 an observer writes;—“ The term Radical, once employed as a name of low reproach, has found its way into high places, and is gone forth as the title of a class who glory in their designation.” About this time many members of Parliament were known as Radicals, among these men being George Grote and Joseph Hume. The Radicals never formed a distinct party in the House of Commons, and subsequently they formed simply the advanced section of the Liberal party. For a few years in the 19th century the wearing of a white hat was looked upon as the distinguishing mark of a Radical, a hat of this colour having been worn by Hunt when addressing meetings.
See W. Harris, History of the Radical Party in Parliament (1885); S. Bamford, Passages in the Life of a Radical (new ed., 1803); C. B. Roylance Kent, The English Radicals; an Historical Sketch (1899).
RADIOACTIVITY. The subject of radioactivity deals with phenomena exhibited by a special class of bodies of high atomic weight of which uranium, thorium, radium and actinium are the best known examples. These substances possess the property of spontaneously emitting radiations of a special character which are able to penetrate through matter opaque to ordinary light. The beginning of this subject dates from 1896, and was an indirect consequence of the discovery of the X rays made a few months before by Rontgen. It was known that the production of X rays in a vacuum tube was accompanied by a strong phosphorescence of the glass, and it occurred to several investigators that ordinary substances made phosphorescent by visible light might emit a penetrating radiation similar to X rays. Following out this idea, H. Becquerel (i),@@1  a distinguished French physicist, exposed amongst other substances a phosphorescent compound of uranium, uranium-
@@@1 These numbers refer to papers noted under References (below).
potassium sulphate, enveloped in paper beneath a photographic plate. A weak photographic effect was obtained. This was shown to be due to a penetrating radiation capable of passing through sheets of matter opaque to ordinary light. Further investigation showed that this photographic action was exhibited by all compounds of uranium and by the metal itself, and had nothing to do with phosphorescence. It was shown equally if the uranium were kept in darkness and did not vary appreciably with time. Becquerel showed that the rays from uranium like X rays were capable of discharging a body whether positively or negatively electrified. A uranium compound brought close to the charged plate of a gold leaf electroscope causes a rapid collapse of the gold leaves. This property of uranium, and also of the radioactive bodies in general, has supplied a delicate and quantitative method of accurate comparison of the intensity of the radiations from substances under varying conditions. A modified form of gold leaf electroscope has come into general use for comparison of the radioactivity of substances. Rutherford (2) made a systematic examination of the discharging effect produced by the rays from uranium and showed that it was due to the production of charged carriers or ions in the volume of the gas through which the radiations pass. In an electric field, the positive ions travel to the negative electrode and vice versa, thus causing a discharge of the electrified body. If a sufficiently strong field is used, the ions are all swr ept to the electrodes before appreciable loss of their number can occur by recombination. The rate of discharge then reaches a steady maximum value which is not altered by a large increase in voltage. This maximum current through the gas is called the saturation current. The ions produced in gases by the rays from uranium and other radioactive substances are in general identical with those produced by X rays, and the mechanism of conductivity of the gas is very similar in both cases (see Conduction, Electric: § Through Gases).
Some time after Becquerel’s discovery, Mme Curie (3) made a systematic examination or the electric method of a large number of chemical elements and their compounds to test whether they possessed the “ radioactive ” property of uranium. Only one other element, thorium, was found to show this effect to a degree comparable with that of uranium—a result independently observed by Schmidt. Mme Curie examined the activity of the various compounds of uranium and found that their radioactivity was an atomic property, i.e. the activity was proportional to the amount of the element uranium present, and was independent of its combination with other substances. In testing the activity of the minerals containing uranium, Mme Curie found that the activity was always four to five times as great as that to be expected from their content of uranium. If the radioactivity were an atomic phenomenon, this could only be explained by the presence in these minerals of another substance more active than uranium itself. Relying on this hypothesis, Mme Curie made a chemical examination of uranium minerals in order to try to separate this new radioactive substance. In these experiments, the Austrian Government generously provided Mme Curie with a ton of the residues from the State manufactory of uranium at Joachimstahl, Bohemia. At that place there are extensive deposits of pitchblende or uranite which are mined for the uranium. After separation of the latter, the residues are three to five times as radioactive weight for weight as the uranium. From this residue Mme Curie separated a substance far more radioactive than uranium, which she called polonium in honour of the country of her birth. This substance is usually separated with bismuth in the mineral, but by special methods can be partly separated from it. A further examination revealed the presence of a second radioactive substance which is normally separated with the barium, to which the name “ radium ” was given. This name was happily chosen, for in the pure state radium bromide has a very great activity—about two million times as great as an equal weight of uranium. By means of successive fractionations of the chloride, the radium was gradually concentrated, until finally the radium was obtained so that the barium lines showed very faintly. The atomic weight was found by Mme Curie to be 225. In a recent redetermination, using a larger quantity of 0*4 grams of pure radium chloride, Mme Curie (4) found the atomic weight to be 226*2. Thorpe (5) using a smaller quantity obtained a value 227. The spectrum of the purified sample of radium chloride obtained by Mme Curie was first examined by Demarfay. It *was found to have a characteristic spark spectrum of bright lines analogous in many respects to the spectra of the alkaline earths. Giesel (6) found that pure radium bromide gives a brilliant carmine colour to the bunsen flame. The flame spectrum shows two broad bright bands in the orange-red. There is also a line in the blue-green and two weak lines in the violet. Giesel (7) has taken an active part in the preparation of pure radium compounds, and was the first to place preparations of pure radium bromide on the market. He found that the separation of radium from the barium mixed with it proceeded much more rapidly if the crystallizations were carried out using the .bromide instead of the chloride. He states that six to eight crystallizations are sufficient for an almost complete separation. From the chemical point of view radium possesses all the characteristic properties of a new clement. It has a definite atomic weight, a well-marked and characteristic spectrum, and distinct chemical properties. Its comparative ease of separation and great activity has attracted much attention to this substance, although we shall see that very similar radioactive properties are possessed by a large number of distinct substances.
Radium emits three distinct types of radiation, known as the a, j8 and 7 rays, of which an account will be given later. It produces in addition a radioactive emanation or gas which is about 100,000 times as active weight for weight as radium itself. The emanation released from 10 milligrams of pure radium bromide causes a glass tube into which it is introduced to phosphoresce brightly. A brilliant luminosity is produced in phosphorescent substances like zinc sulphide, willemite and barium platino-cyanide when introduced into a tube containing the emanation. The radium emanation, a more detailed account of which will be given later, has proved of the greatest utility in radioactive experiments. The property of radium of producing the emanation has been utilized as a very delicate and certain method, not only of detection but of estimation of small quantities of radium. This “ emanation method ” depends upon the introduction of the emanation, liberated from a substance by boiling or heating, into a suitable electroscope. The rate of discharge of the electroscope due to the emanation affords a quantitative measure of the amount of radium present. In this way, it is not difficult to determine wdth certainty the
presence of radium in a body which contains only io"11 gram of radium. With care, io“12 gram can just be detected. This emanation method has been employed with great success in measuring the quantity of radium in minerals and in rocks. A very simple method has been devised of determining the quantity of radium present when it is not less than i/ioo milligram. The tube containing the radium is placed some distance from an electroscope which is surrounded by a lead screen about 3 mms. thick. This cuts off the a and β rays and the effect in the electroscope is then due to the penetrating 7 rays. By comparison of the rate of discharge with that of a standard preparation of radium at the same distance, the quantity of radium can at once be deduced, provided the radium is in equilibrium with its emanation. This is usually the case if the radium preparation is one month old. This method is simple and direct, and has the great advantage that the radium tube under test need not be opened, nor its contents weighed. We shall see later that the amount of radium in an old mineral is always proportional to the amount of uranium present. Rutherford and Boltwood (8) found that 3-4 parts of radium by weight arc present in ten million parts of uranium. Consequently an old mineral containing 1900 kilos of uranium should contain 340 milligrams of pure radium.
In addition to radium and polonium, a number of other radioactive substances have been found in uranium minerals. With the exception of the radium emanation, none of these have yet been isolated in a pure state, although preparations of some of them have been obtained comparable in activity with radium itself. Debierne (9) found a radioactive substance which was separated from pitchblende with the rare earths and had chemical properties similar to those of thorium. This he called actinium. Giesel (10) independently noted the presence of a new radioactive substance which was usually separated with lanthanum and cerium from the minerals. It possessed the property of giving out a radioactive emanation or gas, the activity of which died away in a few seconds. For this reason he called it the emanating substance and afterwards emanium. Later work has shown that emanium is identical in chemical and radioactive properities with actinium, so that the former name will be retained.
We have already seen that Mme Curie gave the name polonium to a radioactive substance separated with bismuth. Later Marckwald found that a very radioactive substance was deposited from a solution of a radioactive mineral on a polished bismuth plate. The active matter was found to be deposited in the bismuth with tellurium, and he gave the name radio-tellurium to this substance. In later work, he showed that the new substance could be chemically separated from tellurium. By treating the residues from 15 tons of Joachimsthal pitchblende, Marckwald (11) finally obtained 3 milligrams of intensely active material—far more active weight for weight than radium. It has been definitely settled that the active substance of Marckwald is identical with polonium. Both substances give out a type of easily absorbed a rays and both lose their activity at the same rate. The activity of polonium decays in a geometrical progression with the time and falls to half its initial value in 140 days. This law of decay, as we shall see, is characteristic of all radioactive products, although the period of decay is different in each case.
Mme Curie and Debierne (12) have described further experiments with polonium. The latter substance was extracted from several tons of pitchblende and purified until 2 milligrams of material were obtained containing about 1/10 milligram of pure polonium. From a knowledge of the relative periods of transformation of radium and polonium, it can be calculated that the amount of polonium in a radium mineral is 1/5000 of the amount of radium, while the activity of pure polonium measured by the a rays should be 5000 times greater than that of radium. As we have seen, polonium is rapidly transformed, and it is of great interest to determine the nature of the substance into which polonium changes. We shall see later that there is considerable evidence that polonium changes into lead.
Recently Boltwood (13) has separated another substance from uranium minerals which he has called “ ionium.” This substance is sometimes separated from the mineral with actinium and has chemical properties very similar to those of thorium. Preparations of ionium have been obtained several thousand times as active as uranium. Ionium emits a rays of short range and has a period of transformation probably much longer than that of radium. Ionium has a special interest inasmuch as it is the substance which changes directly into radium. A preparation of ionium initially free from radium grows radium at a rapid rate. Hofmann found that the lead separated from uranium minerals and named it radiolead. The active constituent in the lead is radium D, which changes into radium E and then into radium F (polonium). Both radium D and radium F arc products of the transformation of radium. In addition to these radioactive substances mentioned above, a large number of other radioactive substances have been discovered. Most of these lo*sc their activity in the course of a few hours or days. The properties of these substances and their position in the radioactive series will be discussed later.
Radiations from Radioactive Substances.—All the radioactive substances possess in common the property of emitting radiations which darken a photographic plate and cause a discharge of electrified bodies. Very active preparations of radium, actinium and polonium also possess the property of causing strong phosphorescence in some substances. Bodies which phosphoresce under X rays usually do so under the rays from radioactive matter. Barium platinocyanide, the mineral willemite (zinc silicate) and zinc sulphide are the best known examples.    *
There are in general three types of radiation emitted by the radioactive bodies, called the α, β and 7 rays. Rutherford (2) in 1899 showed that the radiation from uranium was complex and consisted of {a) an easily absorbed radiation stopped by a sheet of paper or a few centimetres of air which he called the a rays and (6) a far more penetrating radiation capable of passing through several millimetres of aluminium, called the β rays. Later Villard found that radium emitted a very penetrating kind of radiation called the 7 rays capable of passing before absorption through twenty centimetres of iron and several centimetres of lead.
Giesel and, later, Curie and Becquerel showed that the β rays of radium were deflected by a magnetic field. By the work of Becquerel and Kaufmann the β rays have been shown to consist of negatively charged particles projected with a velocity approaching that of light, and having the same small mass as the electrons set free in a vacuum tube. In fact the β rays are electrons spontaneously ejected from the radioactive matter at a speed on an average much greater than that observed in the electrons set free in a vacuum tube.
The very penetrating 7 rays are not deflected in a magnetic or electric field and are believed to be a type of radiation similar to X rays. The 7 rays are only observed in radioactive substances which emit β rays, and the penetrating power of the 7 rays appears to be connected with the initial velocity of expulsion of the β rays. Two general theories have been « advanced to account for the properties of these rays. On one view, the 7 rays are to be regarded as electromagnetic pulses which have their origin in the expulsion of the β particle from the atom. On the other hand Bragg has collected evidence in support of the view that the 7 rays arc corpuscular and consist of uncharged particles or “ neutral doublets.” There is as yet no general consensus of opinion as to the true nature of the 7 rays.
Rutherford (14) showed in 1903 that the a rays were deflected in a powerful magnetic or electric field. The amount of deflection is very small compared with the β rays under similar'conditions. The direction of deflection in a magnetic field is opposite to that of the β rays, showing that the a rays consist of a stream of positively charged particles. A pencil of rays from a thick layer of radioactive matter is complex and consists of particles moving at varying velocities If, however,
a thin film of radioactive matter of one kind is taken, the particles which escape without absorption are found to be homogeneous and consist of particles projected at an identical speed. Observations of the velocity and mass of the particle have been made by Rutherford. The general method employed for this purpose is similar to that used for the determination of the velocity and mass of the electron in a vacuum tube. The deflection of a pencil of rays in a vacuum is determined for both a magnetic and electric field. From these observations the velocity and value ejm (the ratio of the charge carried by the particle to its mass) are determined. The value of e/m has been found to be the same for the particles from all the types of radioactive matter that have been examined, indicating that the a particles from all radioactive substances are identical in mass. The value of ejm found for the a particle is 5-07 X 103 . Now the value of ejm for the hydrogen atom set free in the electrolysis of water is 9660. On the assumption that the value of the charge e is the same for the a particle as for the hydrogen atom, the value would indicate that the a particle has about twice the mass of the hydrogen atom, i.e. has the same mass as the hydrogen molecule. If the charge on the a particle is twice that on the hydrogen atom, the value of ejm indicates that the a particle is a helium atom, for the latter has an atomic weight of four times that of hydrogen. It was difficult at first to decide between these and other hypotheses, but we shall show later that there is now no doubt that the a particle is in reality a helium atom carrying two elementary charges. We may Consequently regard the a rays as a stream of helium atoms which are projected from a radioactive substance with a high velocity. The maximum velocity of the a particle from radium is 2Xio9 cms. per second, or one-fifteenth of the velocity of light. Although the a .rays are the least penetrating of the radiations, it will be seen that they play an extremely important part in radioactive phenomena. They are responsible for the greater part of the ionization and heating effects of radioactive matter and are closely connected with the transformations occurring in them.
Under ordinary experimental conditions the greater part of the ionization observed in a gas is due to the a particles. This ionization due to the a rays does not extend in air at atmospheric pressure for more than 7 cms. from radium, and 8*6 cms. from thorium. If a screen of aluminium about *oi cms. thick is placed over the active material, the a rays are completely absorbed, and the ionization above the screen is then due to the P and 7 rays alone. If a layer of lead about 2 mms. thick is placed over the active material, the P rays are stopped, and the ionization is then due almost entirely to the penetrating 7 rays. By the use of screens of suitable thickness we are thus able to sift out the various types of rays. These three types oi radiations all set up secondary radiations in passing through matter. A pencil of P rays falling on matter is widely scattered in all directions. This scattered radiation is sometimes called the secondary P rays. The 7 rays give rise to secondary rays which consist in part of scattered 7 rays and in part electrons moving with a high velocity. These secondary rays in turn produce tertiary rays and so on. The impact of the a rays on matter sets free a number of slow moving electrons which are very easily deflected by a magnetic or electric field. This type of radiation was first observed by J. J. Thomson, and has been called by him the 6 rays.
Emanations or Radioactive Gases.—In addition to their power of emitting penetrating radiations, the substances thorium, actinium and radium possess another very striking and important property. Rutherford (15) in 1900 showed that thorium compounds (especially the oxide) continuously emitted a radioactive emanation or gas. This emanation can be carried away by a current of air and its properties tested apart from the substance which produces it. A little later Dorn showed that radium possesses a similar property, while Giesel and Debieme observed a similar effect with actinium. These emanations all possess the property of ionizing a gas and, if sufficiently intense, of producing marked photographic and phosphorescent action. The activity of the radioactive gases is not permanent but disappears according to a definite law with the time, viz. the activity falls off in a geometric progression with the time. The emanations are distinguished by the different rates at which they lose their activity. The emanation of actinium is very shortlived, the time for the activity to fall to half value, i.e. the period of the emanation, being 3-7 seconds. The period of the thorium emanation is 54 seconds and of the radium emanation 3*9 days. This property of emitting an emanation is shown in a very striking manner by actinium. A compound of actinium is wrapped in a sheet of thin paper and laid on a screen of phosphorescent zinc sulphide. In a dark room the phosphorescence, marked by the characteristic scintillation, is seen to extend on all sides from the active body. A puff of air is seen to remove the emanation and with it the greater part of the phosphorescence. Fresh emanation immediately diffuses out and the experiment may be repeated indefinitely. The emanations have all the properties of radioactive gases. They can be transferred from point to point by currents of air. The emanatiohs can be separated from the air or other gas with which they are mixed hy the action of extreme cold. Rutherford and Soddy (16) showed that under ordinary conditions the temperature of condensation of the radium emanation mixed was - 150° C.
The emanations are produced from the parent matter and escape into the air under sbme conditions. Rutherford and Soddy (17) made a systematic examination of the emanating power of thorium compounds under different conditions. The hydroxide emanates most freely, while in thorium nitrate, practically none of the emanation escap.es into the air. Most of the compounds of actinium emanate very freely. Radium compounds, except in very thin films, retain most of the emanation in the compound. The occluded emanation can in all cases be released by solution or by heating. On account of its very slow period of decay, tKe emanation of radium can be collected like a gas and stored, when it retains its characteristic properties for a month or more.
Induced Activity.—Curie (18) showed that radium possessed another remarkable property. The surface of any body placed near radium, or still better, immersed in the emanation from it, acquires a new property. The surface after removal is found to be strongly active. Like the emanations, this induced activity in a body decays with the time, though at quite a different rate from the emanation itself. Rutherford (19) independently showed that thorium possessed a like property. He showed that the bodies made active behaved as if a thin film of intensely active matter were deposited on their surface. The active matter could be partly removed by rubbing, and could be dissolved off by strong acids. When the acid was evaporated the active matter remained behind. It was shown that induced activity was due to the emanations, and could not be produced if no emanation was present. We shall see that induced activity on bodies is due to a deposit of non-gaseous matter derived from the transformation of the emanations. Each emanation gives a distinctive active deposit which decays at different rates. The active deposits of radium, thorium and actinium are very complex, and consist of several types of matter. Several hours after removal from the emanation the active deposit from radium decays to half-value—26 minutes, for actinium half-value—34 minutes, for thorium half-value— 10·5 hours. The active deposits obtained on a platinum wire or plate are volatilized before a white heat, and are again deposited on the cooler bodies in the neighbourhood. Rutherford showed that the induced activity could be concentrated on the negative electrode in a strong electric field, indicating that the radioactive carriers had a positive charge. The distribution of the active deposit in a gas at low pressure has been investigated in detail by Makower and Russ.
Theory of Radioactive Transformations.—We have seen that the radioactive bodies spontaneously and continuously emit a great number of a and P particles. In addition, new types of radioactive matter like the emanations and active deposits
appear, and these are quite distinct in chemical and physical properties from the parent matter. The radiating power is an atomic property, for it is unaffected by combination of the active element with inactive bodies, and is uninfluenced by the most powerful chemical and physical agencies at our command. In order to explain these results, Rutherford and Soddy (20) in 1903 put forward a simple but comprehensive theory. The atoms of radioactive matter are unstable, and each second a definite fraction of the number of atoms present break up with explosive violence, in most cases expelling an a or β particle with great velocity. Taking as a simple illustration that an a particle is expelled during the explosion, the resulting atom has decreased in mass and possesses chemical and physical properties entirely distinct from the parent atom. A new type of matter has thus appeared as a result of the transformation. The atoms of this new matter are again unstable and break up in turn, the process of successive disintegration of the atom continuing through a number of distinct stages. On this view, a substance like the radium emanation is derived from the transformation of radium. The atoms of the emanation are far more unstable than the atoms of radium, and break up at a much quicker rate. We shall now consider the law of radioactive transformation according to this theory. It is experimentally observed that in all simple radioactive substances, the tensity of the radiation decreases in a geometrical progression with the time, i.e. I/I0 where I is the intensity of the radiation at any time t, I0 the initial intensity, and λ a constant. Now according to this theory, the intensity of the radiation is proportional to the number of atoms breaking up per second. From this it follows that the atoms of active matter present decrease in a geometrical progression with the time, i.e. N/N0 =e~Ai whcre N is the number of atoms present at a time N0 the initial number, and X the same constant as before. Differentiating, we have dNfdt— -XN, i.e. X represents the fraction of the total number of atoms present which break up per second. The radioactive constant X has a definite and characteristic value for each type of matter. Since X is usually a very small fraction, it is convenient to distinguish the products by stating the time required for half the matter to be transformed. This will be called the period of the product, and is numerically equal to log c2/X. As far as our observation has gone, the law of radioactive change is applicable to all radioactive matter without exception. It appears to be an expression of the law of probability, for the average number breaking up per second is proportional to the number present. Viewed from this point of view, the number of atoms breaking up per second should have a certain average value, but the number from second to second should vary within certain limits according to the theory of probability. The theory of this effect was first put* forward by Schwcidler, and has since been verified by a number of experimenters, including Kohl-rausch, Meyer, and Begener and H. Geiger. This variation in the number of atoms breaking up from moment to moment becomes marked with weak radioactive matter, where only a few atoms break up per second. The variations observed are in good agreement with those to be expected from the theory of probability. This effect does not in any way invalidate the law of radioactive change. On an average the number of atoms of any simple kind of matter breaking up per second is proportional to the number present. We shall now consider how the amount of Radioactive matter which is supplied at a constant rate from a source varies with the time. For clearness, we shall take the case of the production of emanation, by radium. The rate of transformation of radium is so slow compared with that of the emanation that we may assume without sensible error that the number of atoms of radium breaking up per second, i.e. the supply of fresh emanation, is on the average constant over the interval required. Suppose that initially radium is completely freed from emanation. In consequence of the steady supply, the amount of emanation present increases, but not at a constant rate, for the emanation is in turn breaking up. Let q be the number of atoms of emanation produced by the radium per second and N the number present after an interval /, then dN/d/«</-XN where X is the radioactive constant of the emanation. It is obvious that a steady state will ultimately be reached when the number of atoms of emanation supplied per second are on the average to the atoms which break up per second. If N0 be the maximum number, q=\N0 . Integrating the above equation, it follows that Ν/Ν0 =ι-ί’λί . If a curve be plotted with N as ordinates and time as abscissae, it is seen that the recovery curve is complementary to the decay curve. The two curves for the radium emanation period, 3-9 days, are shown in fig. 1, the maximum ordinate being in each case 100.
This process of production and disappearance of active matter holds for all the radioactive bodies. We shall now consider some special cases of the variation of the amount of active matter with time which have proved of great importance in the analysis of radioactive changes.
(a)    Suppose that initially the matter A is present, and this changes into B and B into C, it is required to find the number of atoms P, Q and R of A, B and C present at any subsequent time /. .
Let Xi, Xj, X» be the constants of transformation of A, B and C respectively. Suppose n be the number of atoms of A initially present. From the law of radioactive change it follow's:
P =» «£“λ 1*
dQ/d/ = XiP-XiQ.........(I)
d R/dt = XjQ — X» R.........(2)
Substituting the value osP in terms of n in(i), dQAf/^XiWC^'-XjQ; the solution of wdiich is of the form
Q = n(ae~W+berW)t
where a and b arc constants. By substitution it is seen that a = Xi/(Xj —Xi). Since Q =0 when f=o, b — —Xi/(Xj —Xi)
. Thus Q = 5J~\j(r "V-e_Al< )........(3)
Similarly it can be shown that
......(4)
,____ X1X2    ^ _ X1X2    _ XiXj
where a — (χ^χ,χχ^χ,)· h ~ (x.-XO^-x.y c = {λ,-Χι) (Χ,-λ*)’
It will be seen from (3), that the value of Q, initially zero, increases to a maximum and then decays; finally, according to an exponential law, with the period of the more slow'ly transformed product, whether A or B.
(b)    A primary source supplies the matter A at a constant rate, and the process has continued so long that the amounts of the products A, B, C have reached a steady limiting value. The primary source is then suddenly removed. It is required to find the amounts of A, B and C remaining at any subsequent time /.
In this case of equilibrium, the number n0 of particles of A supplied per second from the source is equal to the number of particles which change into B per second, and also of B into C. This requires the relation
w0 =XiP0 =yi Q0 =X»R0
w'here P0 , Q0 , R0 are thc initial number of particles of A, B, C present, and Xi, Xa, Xj are their constants of transformation.
Using the same quotations as in case (1), but remembering the new initial conditions, it can easily be shown that the number of particles P, Q and R of the matter A, B and C existing at the time / after removal are given by
P =2a β-λ,*,
Λΐ
R - nQ (ae-W+be-W+cc-W),
,    _Xj__ 1 _—Xi____X]Xg_
^ esC a (Xi-Xj)(Xi-λ*)’    (Xi-Xj)(X2-Xj)*    X»(Xi — Xj)(Xi-Xj)’
The curves expressing the rate of variation of P, Q, R with time are in these cases very different from case (1).
(c)    The matter A is supplied at a constant rate from a primaiy source. Required to find the number^ of particles of A, B and C present at any time t later, when initially A, B, and C w'ere absent.
This is a converse case from case (2) and the solutions can be obtained from general considerations. Initially^suppose A, B and C arc in equilibrium with the primary source which supplied A at a constant rate. The source is then removed^ and the amounts of A, B and C vary according to the equation given in case (2). The source after removal continues to supply A at the same rate as before. Since initially the product A was in equilibrium w'ith the source, and the radioactive processes are in no way changed by the removal of the source, it is clear that the amount of A present in the two parts in which the matter is distributed is unchanged. If Pi be the amount of A produced by the source in the time /, and P
the amount remaining in the part removed, then Pi+P = P0 where P3 is the equilibrium value. Thus
P,/P0 = i-P/P0 .
The ratio P/P0 can be written down from the solution given in case (2). Similarly the corresponding values of 0i/Qo , Ri/R0 ma Y be at once derived. It is obvious in these cases that the curve plotted with P/P0 as ordinates and time as abscissae is complementary to the corresponding curve with Pi/P0 as ordinates. This simple relation holds for all recovery and decay curves of radioactive products in general.
We have so far considered the variation in the number of atoms of successive products with time when the periods of the products are known. In practice, the variation of the number of atoms is deduced from measurements of activity, usually made by the electric method. Using the same notation as before, the activity of any product is proportional to its rate of breaking up, i.e. to AiP where P is the number of atoms present. If two products are present, the activity is the sum of two corresponding terms AiP and A2 Q. In practice, however, no two products emit a or 0 particles ,with the same velocity. The difference in ionizing power of a single a particle from the two products has thus to be^ taken into account. If, under the experimental conditions, the ionization produced by an a particle from the second product is K times that from the first product, the activity observed is proportional to AiP+KA2 Q. In this way, it is possible to compare the theoretical activity curves of a mixture of products with those deduced experimentally.·
Analysis of Radioactive Changes.—The analysis of the successive* changes occurring in uranium, thorium, radium and actinium has proved a very difficult matter. In order to establish the existence of a new product and to fix its position in the scheme of changes, it is necessary to show (a) that the new product has a distinctive period of decay and shows some distinctive physical or chemical properties; (b) that the product under consideration arises directly from the product preceding it in the scheme of changes, and is transformed into the product succeeding it.
In general, it has been found that each product shows some distinctive chemical or physical behaviour which allows of its partial or complete separation from a mixture of other products. It must be remembered that in most cases the amount of radioactive matter under examination is too small to detect by weight, but its presence is inferred from its characteristic radiations and rate of change. In some cases, a separation may be effected by ordinary chemical methods; for example thorium X is separated from thorium by precipitation of thorium with ammonia. The Th X remains in the filtrate and is practically free from thorium. In other cases, a separation is effected by a separation of a metal in the solution of active matter. For example, polonium (radium F) always comes down with bismuth and may be separated by placing a bismuth plate in a solution. Radium C is separated from radium B by adding nickel filings to a solution of the two. Radium C is deposited on the nickel. In other cases, a partial separation may be effected by electrolysis or by differences in volatility when heated. For example, when radium A, B and C are deposited on a platinum plate, on heating the plate, radium B is volatilized and is deposited on any cold surface in the neighbourhood. A very striking method of separating certain products has been recently observed depending upon the recoil of an atom which breaks up with the expulsion* of an a particle. The residual atom acquires sufficient velocity in consequence of the ejection of an a particle to escape and be deposited on bodies in the neighbourhood. This is especially marked in a low vacuum. This property was independently investigated by Russ and Makower (21) and by Hahn (22). The latter has shown that by means of the recoil, actinium C may be obtained pure from the active deposit containing actinium A, B and C, for B emits a rays, and actinium C is driven from the plate by the recoil. In a similar way a new product, thorium D, has been isolated. By the recoil method, radium B may be separated from radium A and C. The recoil method is one of the most definite and certain methods of settling whether an a ray product is simple or complex.
While in the majority of cases the products break up either with the emission of a or 0 particles, some products have been observed which do not emit any characteristic radiation and have been called “ rayless products.” For example, radium D and
thorium A are changing substances which break up without emitting either penetrating a or 0 rays. They appear to emit slow 5 rays which can only be detected by special methods. The presence and properties of a rayless product can be easily inferred if it is transformed into a product emitting a radiation, for the variation in activity of the latter affords a method of determining the amount of the parent product present. The distinction between a “ ray ” and a “ rayless ” product is not clear. It may be that the atom of a rayless product undergoes a re-arrangement of its constituent parts giving rise to an atom of the same mass but of different properties. In the case of an a ray or 0 ray product, the expulsion of an a or 0 particle affords an obvious explanation of the appearance of a new product with distinctive physical properties.
In the table a list of the known products of transformation is given. In each case, the half period of transformation is given and the type of radiation emitted. If the product emits a rays, the range of ionization of the a particle in air is given.
In each of the groups under the heading uranium, thorium and actinium, each product is derived from the direct transformation of the product above it.
Products of Radium.—Radium is transformed directly into the emanation which in turn goes through a rapid series of transformations called radium A, B and C. The complete analysis of these changes has involved a large amount of work. The emanation changes first into radium A, a substance of period 3 minutes emitting only a rays. Radium A changes into radium B, a product of period 26 minutes emitting £rays of penetrating power small compared with those emitted from the next product radium C. The product radium C has proved of considerable importance, for it not only emits very penetrating a rays and /3 rays, but is the origin of the 7 rays arising from radium in equilibrium. When a wire charged negatively has been exposed for some time in the presence of the radium emanation, it becomes coated with an invisible film ’of radium A, B and C. After
removal from the emanation for 20 minutes, radium A has practically disappeared and the a rays arise entirely from radium C. Radium C has proved very valuable in radioactive measurements as providing an intense source of homogeneous a rays. Twenty-four hours after removal, the activity due to radium R and C has become exceedingly small. The wire, however, still shows a very small residual activity, first noted by Mme Curie. This residual activity measured by the a rays rapidly increases with the time and reaches a maximum in about three years. The active deposit of slow change has been examined in detail by Rutherford (23) and by Meyer and Schweidlcr (24). It has been shown to consist of three successive products called radium D, E and F. Radium D is a raylcss substance of slow period of transformation. Its period has been calculated by Rutherford to be about 40 years, and by Meyer and Schwcidler about 12 years. Antonoff (25) fixes the period of about 17 years. Radium D changes into E, a β ray product of period about 5 days, and E into F, an a ray product of period 140 days. It was at first thought that radium E was complex, but no evidence of this has been observed by Antonoff. The product radium F is of special interest, for it is identical with polonium—the first active body separated by Mme Curie. In a similar way it has been shown that radium D is the primary source of the activity observed in. lead or “ radiolcad ” separated by Hofmann. It is interesting to note what valuable results have been obtained from an examination of the minute residual activity observed on bodies exposed in the presence of the radium emanation.
Radium Emanation.—The radium emanation is to be regarded as a typical radioactive product or transition element which exists in a gaseous form. It is produced from radium at a constant rate, and is transformed into radium A and helium. Its half-period of transformation is 3-86 days. The emanation from radium has been purified by condensing it in liquid air, and pumping out the residual gases. The volume (26) of the emanation at normal pressure and temperature to be derived from one gram of radium in equilibrium is about o-6 cubic millimetres. This small quantity of gas contains initially more than three-quarters of the total activity of the radium before its separation. In a pure state, the emanation is 100,000 times as active weight for weight as pure radium. Pure emanation in a spectrum tube gives a characteristic spectrum of bright lines (27). The discharge in the gas is bluish in colour. With continued sparking, the emanation is driven into the walls of the tube and the electrodes. Notwithstanding the minute volume of emanation available, the boiling-point of the emanation has been determined at various pressures. At atmospheric pressure Rutherford (28) found the boiling-point to be — 67° C., and Gray and Ramsay (29) 710 C. Liquid emanation appears colourless when first condensed; when the temperature is lowered, the liquid emanation freezes, and at the temperature of liquid air glows with a bright rose colour. The density of liquid emanation has been estimated at 5 or 6.
Approximate estimates of the molecular weight of the radium emanation were early made by diffusion methods. The molecular weight in most cases came out about 100. In a comparison by Perkins of the rate of diffusion of the emanation with that of a monatomic vapour of high molecular weight, viz. mercury, the value deduced was 234. Since the radium atom in breaking up gives rise to one atom of the emanation and one atom of helium, its atomic weight should be 226—4 = 222. The emanation appears to have no definite chemical properties, and in this respect belongs to the group of inert monatomic gases of which helium and argon are the best known examples. It is partially soluble in water, and readily absorbed by charcoal.
Thorium.—The first product observed in thorium was the emanation. This gives rise to the active deposit which has been analysed by Rutherford, Miss BrOoks and by Hahn, and shown to consist of probably four products—thorium A, B, C and D. Thorium A is a rayless product of period 10-5 hours; thorium B an a ray product of period about one hour. The presence of thorium C has been inferred from the two types of a rays
present in the active deposit, but no chemical separation of B and C has yet been found possible. Hahn has shown that thorium D—a β ray product of period 3 minutes—can easily be separated by the recoil method. A special interest attaches to the product thorium X (30), which was first separated by Rutherford and Soddy, since experiments with this substance laid the foundation of the general theory of radioactive transformations. A close analysis of thorium has led to the separation of a number of new products. Hahn (31) found that a very active substance emitting a rays, which gave rise to thorium X, could be separated from thorium minerals. This active substance, called radiothorium, has been closely examined by Hahu and Blanc. Its period of decay was found by Hahn to be about 2 years, and by Blanc to be 737 days. From an examination of the activity of commercial thorium nitrate of different ages, Hahn showed that another product must be present, which he called mesothorium. This is separated from thorium with Th X by precipitation with ammonia. Thorium is first transformed into the raylcss product mesothorium, of period about 5 years. This gives rise to a β ray product of quick transformation, which in turn changes into radiothorium. This changes into thorium X, and so on through a long series of changes. When isolated in the pure state, radiothorium would have an activity about a thousand times greater than radium, but would lose its activity with time with a period of about 2 years. Mesothorium, when first separated, would be inactive, but in consequence of the production of radiothorium, its activity would rapidly increase for several years. After reaching a maximum, it would finally decay with a period of five years. Since a large amount of thorium is separated annually from thorium minerals, it would be of great importance at the same time to separate the radiothorium and mesothorium present. For many purposes active preparations of these substances would be as valuable as radium itself, and the amount of active matter from this source would be greater than that at present available from the separation of radium from uranium minerals.
Actinium.—The transformations observed in actinium arc very analogous to those in thorium. Actinium itself is a rayless product which changes into radioactinium, an a ray product of period r9*s days, first separated by Hahn (32). This changes into actinium X, of period 10-2 days, first separated by Godlewski (33)· Actinium X is transformed into the emanation which in turn gives rise to three further products, called actinium A, B and C. Although very active preparations of actinium have been prepared, it has so far not been found possible to separate the actinium from the rare earths with which it is mixed. We do not in consequence know its atomic weight or spectrum.
Origin of Radium.—According to the transformation theory, radium, like all other radioactive products, must be regarded as a changing element. Preliminary calculations showed that radium must have a period of transformation of several thousand years. Consequently in order that any radium could exist in old minerals, the supply must be kept up by the transformation of some other substance. Since radium is always found associated with uranium minerals, it seemed probable from the beginning that uranium must be the primary element from which radium is derived. If this were the case, in old minerals which have not been altered by the action of percolating waters, the ratio of the amount of radium to uranium in a mineral must be a constant. This must evidently be the case, for in a state of equilibrium the rate of breaking up of radium must equal the rate of supply of radium from uranium. If P, Q be the number of atoms of uranium and radium respectively in equilibrium, and λι, λί their constants of change, then X2Q=λιΡ or Q/P ~Xi/Xj=T2/T1.
where T2 and Ti are the half-periods of transformation of uranium and radium respectively. The work of Bolt wood (34), Strutt (35) and McCoy (36) has conclusively shown that the ratio of radium to uranium in old minerals is a constant. Boltwoodand Strutt determined the quantity of radium present in a mineral by the emanation method, and the amount of uranium by analysis.
In order, however, to obtain a direct proof of the genetic relation between uranium and radium, it is necessary to show that radium appears after some time in a uranium compound from which all trace of radium has been initially removed. It can readily be calculated that the growth of radium should be easily observed by the emanation method in the course of one week, using a kilogram of uranium nitrate. . Experiments of this kind were first made by Soddy (37), but initially no definite evidence was obtained that radium grew in the solution at all. The rate of production of radium, if it took place at all, was certainly less than 1 o;&ooth part of the amount to be expected if uranium were transformed directly into radium. It thus appeared probable that one or more products of slow period of transformation existed between uranium and radium. Since uranium must be transformed through these intermediate stages before radium appears, it is evident that the initial rate of production of radium under these conditions might be extremely small. This conclusion has been confirmed by Soddy, who has shown that radium does appear in the solution which has been placed aside for several years.
Since the direct parent of radium must be present in radioactive minerals, one of the constituents separated from the mineral must grow radium. This was shown to be the case by Boltwood (38), who found that actinium preparations produced radium at a fairly rapid rate. By the work of Rutherford and Boltwood, it was found that the growth of radium was not due to actinium itself, but to a new substance separated in some cases with the actinium. This new substance, which emits a rays, was separated by Boltwood (38), and called by him “ Ionium.” It has chemical properties very similar to thorium. Soddy has shown that the period of ionium is probably not less than 20,000 years» indicating that ionium must exist in uranium minerals in not less than ten times the quantity of radium. It has not yet been directly shown that uranium produces ionium, but there can be no doubt that it does do so. Since ionium produces radium, Boltwood (38) has determined by direct experiment that radium is half transformed in 2000 years—a number in good agreement with other data on that subject. The constant relation between uranium and radium will only hold for old minerals where there has been no opportunity for chemical alteration or removal of its constituents by the action of percolating water or other agencies. It is quite possible that altered minerals of no great age will not show this constant relation. It seems probable that this is the explanation of some results of Mile Gleditsch, where the relation between uranium and radium has been found not to be constant for some mineral specimens.
Connexion of the Radioelements.—We have already seen that a number of slowly transforming radioactive substances, viz. polonium (radium F), radiolead (radium D) and ionium are linked up to the uranium-radium series of transformations. Boltwood (39) has made a systematic examination of the relative activity in the form of very thin films due to each of the products present in the uranium-radium family. The results are shown in the following table, where the activity of pure uranium itself is taken as unity:—
Taking into account the differences in the ionization due to an a particle from the various products, the results indicate that uranium expels two a particles for one from each of the other a ray products in the series of transformations. This indicates either that two particles are expelled during the transformation of the atom of uranium, or that another a ray product is present which has so far not been separated from the uranium.
Although thorium is nearly always present in old uranium minerals and uranium in thorium minerals, there does not appear to be any radioactive connexion between these two elements. Uranium and thorium are to he regarded as two distinct radioactive elements. With regard to actinium, there is still no definite information of its place in the scheme of transformations. Boltwood has shown that the amount of actinium in uranium minerals is proportional to the content of uranium. This indicates that actinium, like radium, is in genetic connexion with uranium. On the other hand, the activity of actinium with its series of a ray products is less than that of radium itself or uranium. In order to explain this anomaly, Rutherford has suggested that at a certain stage of disintegration of the uranium-radium series, the disintegration is complex, and two distinct kinds of matter appear, one in much larger quantity than the other. On this view, the smaller fraction is actinium, so that the latter is a branch descendant of the main uranium-radium series.
End Products of Transformation.—It is now definitely established that the a particle expelled from any type of radioactive matter is an atom of helium, so that helium is a necessary accompaniment of radioactive changes involving the expulsion of a particles.- After the radioactive transformations have come to an end, each of the elements uranium and thorium and actinium should give rise to an end or final product, which may be either a known element or some unknown element of very slow period of transformation. Supposing, as seems probable, that the expulsion of an a particle lowers the atomic weight of an element by four units—the atomic weight of helium—the atomic weights of each of the products in the uranium and radium series can be simply calculated. Since uranium expels two a particles, the atomic weight of the next ray product, ionium, is 238*5-8 or 230*5. The atomic weight of radium comes out to be 266*5, a number in good agreement with the experimental value. Similarly the atomic weight of polonium is 210*5, and that of the final product after the transformation of polonium should be 206*5. This value is very close to the atomic weight of lead, and indicates that this substance is the final product of the transformation of radium.
This suggestion was first put forward by Boltwood (40), who has collected a large amount of evidence bearing on this subject. Since in old minerals the transformations have been in progress for periods of time, in some cases measured by hundreds of millions of years, it is obvious that the end product, if a stable element, should be an invariable companion of the radioelement and be present in considerable quantity. Boltwood has shown that lead always occurs in radioactive minerals, and in many cases in amount about that to be expected from their uranium content and age. It is difficult to settle definitely this very important problem until it can be experimentally shown that radium is transformed into lead, or, what should prove simpler in practice, that polonium changes into helium and lead. Unfortunately for a solution of this problem within a reasonable time, a very large quantity of polonium would be necessary. Mme. Curie and Debierne have obtained a very active preparation of polonium containing about j^th milligram of pure polonium. Rutherford and Boltwood and Curie and Debierne have both independently shown that polonium produces helium —a result to be expected, since it emits a particles.
Production of Helium.—In 1902 Rutherford and Soddy suggested that the helium which is invariably found in radioactive minerals was derived from the disintegration of radioactive matter. In 1903 Ramsay and Soddy definitely showed that helium was produced by radium and also by its emanation. From the observed mass of the a particle, it seemed probable from the first that the a particle was an atom of helium. This conclusion was confirmed by the work of Rutherford and Geiger (41), who showed that the a particle was an atom of helium carrying two unit charges of electricity. In order to prove definitely this relation, it was necessary to show that the a particles, quite independently of the active matter from which they were expelled, gave rise to helium. This was done by Rutherford and Royds (42), who allowed the a particles from a large quantity of emanation to be fired through the
very thin glass walls of the containing tube. The collected particle gave the spectrum of helium, showing, without doubt, that the a particle must be a helium atom.
Since the a particle is an atom of helium, all radioactive matter which expels a particles must give rise to helium. In agreement with this, Debierne and Giesel have shown that actinium as well as radium produces helium. Observations of the production of helium by radium have been made by Ramsay and Soddy, Curie and Dewar, Himstcdt and others. The rate of production of helium per gram of radium was first definitely measured by Dewar (43). His preliminary measurements gave a value of 134 cubic mms. of helium per year per gram of radium and its products. Later observations extending over a larger interval give a rate of production about 168 cubic mms. per year. As a result of preliminary measurements, Boltwood and Rutherford (44) have found a growth of 163 cubic mms. per year. It is of interest to note that the rate of production of helium by radium is in excellent agreement with the value calculated theoretically. From their work of counting the particles and measuring their charge, Rutherford and Geiger showed that the rate of production of helium should be 158 cubic mms. per year.
Properties of the a Rays.—We have seen that the rays are positively charged atoms of helium projected at a high velocity, which are capable of penetrating through thin metal sheets and several centimetres of air. Early observations indicated that the ionization due to a layer of radioactive matter decreased approximately according to an exponential law with the thickness of the absorbing matter placed over the active matter. The true nature of the absorption of the a rays was first shown by Bragg and by Bragg and Klceman (45). The active particles projected from a thin film of active matter of one kind have identical velocities, and are able to ionize the air for a definite distance, termed the “ range ” of the a particle. It was found that the ionization per centimetre of path due to a narrow pencil of a rays increases with the distance from the active matter, at first slowly, then more rapidly, near the end of the range. After passing through a maximum value the ionization falls off rapidly to zero. The range of an a particle in air has a definite value which can be accurately measured. If a uniform screen of matter is placed in the path of the pencil of rays the range is reduced by a definite amount proportional to the thickness of the screen. All the a particles have their velocity reduced by the same amount in their passage through the screen. The ranges in air of the a rays from the various products of the radioelements have been measured. The ranges for the different products vary between 2-8 cms. and 8-6 cms.
Bragg has shown that the range of an a particle in different elements is nearly proportional to the square roots of their atomic weights. Using the photographic method, Rutherford (46) showed that the velocity V of an a particle of range R cms. in air is given by V2 =K(R+i*25), where K is a constant. In his experiments he was unable to detect particles which had a velocity lower than 8*8X10® cms. per second. Geiger (47), using the scintillation method, has recently found that a particles of still lower velocity can be detected under suitable conditions by the scintillations produced on a zinc sulphide screen. He has found that the connexion between velocity and range can be closely expressed by V^KR, where K is a constant.
On account of the great energy of motion of the a particle, it was at first thought that it pursued a rectilinear path in the gas without appreciable deflection due to its encounters with the molecules. Geiger (48) has, however, shown by the scintillation method that the a particles are scattered to a marked extent in passing through matter. The scattering increases with the atomic weight of the substance traversed, and becomes more marked with decreasing velocity of the a particle. A small fraction of the a particles falling on a thick screen are deflected through more than a right angle, and emerge again on the side of incidence.
Rutherford and Geiger (49) have devised an electrical method of counting the a particles expelled from radioactive matter. The a particle enters through a small opening into a metal tube containing a gas at a reduced pressure. The ionization produced by the a particle in its passage through the gas is magnified several thousand times by the movement of the ions in a strong electric field. In this way, the entrance of an a particle into the detecting vessel is shown by a sudden and large deflection of the measuring instrument. By this method, they determined that 3*4 X io10 a particles arc ejected per second from one gram of radium-itscsf and from each of its a ray products in equilibrium with it. By measuring the charge on a counted number of a particles, it was found that the a particle carries a positive charge of 9*3 X io”10 electrostatic units. From other evidence, it is known that this must be twice the fundamental unit of charge carried by the hydrogen atom. It follows that this unit charge is 4*65 X io"w units. This value is in good agreement with numerous recent determinations of this fundamental quantity by other methods. With this data, it is possible to calculate directly the values of some important radioactive data. The calculated and observed values are given below:—
The calculated values are in all cases in good agreement with the experimental numbers.
It is well known from the experiments of Sir William Crookes (50) that the a rays produce visible scintillations when they fall on a screen of phosphorescent zinc sulphide. This is shown in the instrument called the spinthariscope. By means of a suitable microscope, the number of these scintillations on a given area in a given time can be counted. The number so obtained is practically identical with the number of a particles incident on the screen, determined by the electrical method of. counting. This shows that each a particle produces a visible flash of light when it falls on a suitable zinc sulphide screen. The scintillations produced by a rays are observed in certain diamonds, and their number has been counted by Regener (51) and the charge on each particle has been deduced. The latter was the first to employ the scintillation method for actual counting of a particles. Kinoshita has shown that the number of a particles can also be counted by the photographic method, and that each particle must produce a detectable effect.
Absorption of β Rays.—We have seen that the β particles, which arc emitted from a number of radioactive products, carry a negative charge and have the same small mass as the particles constituting the cathode rays. The velocity of expulsion and penetrating power of the β rays varies widely for different products. For example, the rays from radium B are very easily absorbed, while some of the rays from radium C are of a very penetrating type. It has been found that for a single β ray product, the particles are absorbed according to an exponential law with the thickness of matter traversed, and Hahn has made use of this fact to isolate a number of new products. It has been generally assumed that the exponential law of absorption is a criterion that the β rays are all expelled at the same speed. In addition, it has been supposed that the β particles do not decrease much in velocity in passing through matter. Wilson has recently made experiments upon homogeneous β rays, and finds that the intensity of the radiation falls off in some cases according to a linear rather than to an exponential law, and that there is undoubted evidence that the β particles decrease in velocity in traversing matter. Experiments upon the absorption of β rays are greatly complicated by the scattering of the β rays in their encounters with the molecules. For example, if a pencil of β rays falls on a metal, a large fraction of the rays are scattered
sufficiently to emerge on the side of incidence. This scattering of the ft rays has been investigated by Eve, McLennan, Schmidt, Crowther and others. It has been found that the scattering for different chemical elements is connected with their atomic weight and their position in the periodic table. McCelland and Schmidt have given theories to account for the absorption of ft rays by matter. The whole problem of absorption and scattering of particles by substances is very complicated, and the question is still under active examination and discussion. The negative charge carried by the ft rays has been measured by a number of observers. It has been shown by Rutherford and Makower that the number oi'ft particles expelled per second from one gram of radium in equilibrium is about that to be expected if each atom of the ft ray products in breaking up emits one ft particle.
Heat Emission of Radioactive Matter.—In 1903 it was shown by Curie and Laborde (52) that a radium compound was always hotter than the surrounding medium, and radiated heat at a constant rate of about 100 gram calories per hour per gram of radium. The rate of evolution of heat by radium has been measured subsequently by a number of observers. The latest and most accurate determination by Schweidler and Hess, using about half a gram of radium, gave 118 gram calories per gram per hour (53). There is now no doubt that the evolution of heat by radium and other radioactive matter is mainly a secondary phenomenon, resulting mainly from the expulsion of .a particles. Since the latter have a large kinetic energy and are easily absorbed by matter, all of these particles are stopped in the radium itself or in the envelope surrounding it, and their energy of motion is transformed into heat. On this view, the evolution of heat from any type of radioactive matter is proportional to the kinetic energy of the expelled a particles. The view that the heating effect of radium wr as a measure of the kinetic energy of the a particles was strongly confirmed by the experiments of Rutherford and Barnes (54). They showed that the emanation and its products when removed from radium were responsible for about three-quarters of the heating effect of radium in equilibrium. The heating effect of the radium emanation decayed at the same rate as its activity. In addition, it was found that the ray products, viz. the emanation radium A and radium C, each gave a heating effect approximately proportional to their activity. Measurements have been made on the heating effect of uranium and thorium and of pitchblende and polonium. In each case, the evolution of heat has been shown to be approximately a measure of the kinetic energy of the a particles.
Experiments on the evolution of heat from radium and its emanation have brought to light the enormous amount of energy accompanying the transformation of radioactive matter where a particles are emitted. For example, the emanation from one gram of radium in equilibrium with its products emits heat initially at the rate of about 90 gram calories per hour. The total heat emitted during its transformation is about 12,000 gram calories. Now the initial volume of the emanation from one gram of radium is -6 cubic millimetres. Consequently one cubic centimetre of emanation during its life emits 2 X io7  gram calories. Taking the atomic weight of the emanation as 222, one gram of the emanation emits during its life 2 X io9  gram calories of heat. This evolution of heat is enormous compared with that emitted in any known chemical reaction. There is every reason to believe that the total emission of energy from any type of radioactive matter during its transformation is of the same order of magnitude as for the emanation. The atoms of matter must consequently be regarded as containing enormous stores of energy which are only released by the disintegration of the atom.
A large amount of work has been done in measuring the amount of the thorium and radium emanation in the atmosphere, and in determining the quantity of radium and thorium distributed on the surface of the earth. The information already obtained has an important bearing on geology and atmospheric electricity.
References.—i. H. Becquerel, Comptes Rendus, 1896, pp. 420, 501, 559, 689, 762, 1086; 2. Rutherford, Phil. Mag., Jan. 1899; 3. Mme Curie, Comptes Rendus, 1898, 126. p. 1101; M and Mme Curie and G. Bémont, ib., 1898, 127. p. 1215; 4. Mme Curie, ib., 1907, 145. p. 422; 5. Thorpe, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1908, 80. p. 298; 6. Giesel, Phys. Zeit.f 1902, 3. p. 578; 7. Giesel, Annal, d. Phys., 1899, 69. p. 91; Ber., 1902, p. 3608; 8. Rutherford and Boltwood, Amer. Journ. Set., July 1906; 9. Debierne, Comptes Rendus, 1899, 129. p. 593; 1900, 130. p. 206; 10. Giesel, Ber., 1902, p. 3608; I903i P* 342; 11. Marckwald, ib., 1903, p. 2662; 12. Mme Curie and Debierne, Comptes Rendus, 1910, 150. p. 386; 13. Boltwood, Amer. Journ. Sci., May 1908; 14. Rutherford, Phil. Mag., Feb. 1903, Oct. 1906; 15. Rutherford, ib., Jan. 1900; 16. Rutherford and Soddy, ib., May 1903; 17. Rutherford and Soddy, ib., Nov. 1902; 18. M and Mme Curie, Comptes Rendus, 1899, 129. p. 714; 19. Rutherford, Phil. Mag., Jan. and Feb. 1900; 20. Rutherford and Soddy, ib., Sept, and Nov. 1902, April and May 1903; Rutherford, Phil. Trans., 1904, 204A. p. 169; 21. Russ and Makower, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1909, 82A. p. 205; 22. Hahn, Phys. Zeit., 1909, 10. p. 81; 23. Rutherford, Phil. Mag., Nov. 1904, Sept. 1905; 24. Meyer and Schweidler, Wien. Ber., July 1905; 25. Antonoff, Phil. Mag., June 1910; 26. Cameron and Ramsay, Trans. Chem. Soc., 1907, p. 1266; Rutherford, Phil. Mag., Aug. 1908; 27. Cameron and Ramsay, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1908, 81 A. p. 210; Rutherford and Royds, Phil. Mag., 1908, 16. p. 313; Royds, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1909, 82A. p. 22; Watson, ib., 1910, 83A. p. 50; 28. Rutherford, Phil. Mag., 1909; 29. Gray and Ramsay, Trans. Chem. Soc., 1909, PP* 354» 1073; 30* Rutherford and Soddy, Phil. Mag., Sept, and Nov. 1902; 31. Hahn, Proc. Roy. Soc., March 1905; Phil. Mag., June 1906; Ber., 40. pp, 1462, 3304; Phys. Zeit., 1908, 9. pp. 245, 246; 32. Hahn, Phil. Mag., Sept. 1906; 33. Godlewski, ib., July 1905; 34. Boltwood, ib., April 1905; 35. Strutt, Trans. Roy, Soc., 1905A. ; 36. McCoy, Ber., 1904, p. 2641; 37. Soddy, Phil Mag., June 1905, Aug. 1907, Oct. 1908, Jan. 1909; 38. Boltwood Amer. Journ. Sci., Dec. 1906, Oct. 1907, May 1908, June 1908 39. Boltwood, ib. April 1908; 40. Boltwood, ib., Oct. 1905 Feb. 1907; 41. Rutherford and Geiger, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1908, 81 a, p. 141 ; 42, Rutherford and Royds, Phil. Mag., Feb. 1909; 43. Dewar Proc. Roy, Soc., 1908, 81 A. p. 280; 1910, 83. p. 404; 44. Boltwooc and Rutherford, Manch. Lit. and Phil. Soc., 1909, 54. No. 6: 45. Bragg and Kleeman, Phil. Mag., Dec. 1904, Sept. 1905; 46 Rutherford, ib., Aug. 1906; 47. Geiger, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1910, 83a p. 505; 48. Geiger, ib., 1910, 83A. p. 492; 4^. Rutherford anc Geiger, ib., 19« \ 81 a. pp. 141, 163; 50. Crookes, ib., 1903 51. Regener, VerhanM. d. D. Phys. Ges., 1908, 10. p. 28; 52. Curie and Laborde, Comptes Rendus, 1904, 136. p. 673; 53. Schweidler and Hess Wien. Ber., June 1908, 117; 54. Rutherford and Barnes, Phil. Mag., Feb, 1904.
General treatises are: P. Curie, Œuvres, 1908; E. Rutherford, Radioactive Transformations, 1906; F. Soddy, Interpretation 0) Radium, 1909; R. J. Strutt, Becquerel Rays and Radium, 1904 W. Makower, Radioactive Substances, 1908; J. Joly, Radioactivity and Geology, 1909. See also Annual Reports of the Chemical Society\
(E. Ru.)
RADIO LARIA, so called by E. Haeckel in 1862 (Polycystina, by C. G. Ehrenberg, 1838), the name given to Marine Sarcodina, in which the cytoplasmic body gives off numerous fine radiating pseudopods (rarely anastomosing) from its surface, and is provided with a chitinous “ central capsule,” surrounding the inner part which encloses the nucleus, the inner and outer cytoplasm communicating through either one or three apertures or numerous pores in the capsule. The extracapsular cytoplasm is largely transformed into a gelatinous substance (“ calymma ”), through which a granular network of plasm passes to form a continuous layer bearing the pseudopods at the surface; this gelatinous layer is full of large vacuoles, “ alveoli,” as in other pelagic Sarcodina (Heliozoa, q.v.), Globigerinidae, &c., among Foraminifera (tf.r.). The protoplasm may contain oil-globules, pigment-grains, reserve-grains and crystals. There is frequently a skeleton present, either of silica (pure or containing a certain amount of organic admixture), or of “ acanthin ” (possibly a proteid, allied to vitellin, but regarded by W. Schewiakoff as a hydrated silicate of calcium and aluminium); never calcareous or arenaceous. The skeleton may consist of spicules, isolated or more or less compacted, or form a latticed shell, which, in correlation with the greater resistance of its substance, is of lighter and more elegant structure than in the Foraminifera. The alveoli contain a liquid; which, as shown by Brandt, is rich in carbon dioxide, and in proportion to its abundance may become much lighter than sea-water; and possibly the gelatinous substance of the calymma is also lighter than the medium. In Acantharia the protoplasm at the base
of the projecting spines is often differentiated into a bundle of fibres converging on to the spines some way up (distally); these, comparable to the myoncmes of Infusoria (?.?.), &c., and termed “ myophrisks ”, possibly serve to drag outwards the surface and so extend it, with concurrent dilatation of the alveoli, and lower the specific gravity of the animal. In this group also a thick temporary flagellum “ sarcoflagellum ” may be formed, apparently by the coalescence of a number of pseudopodia. The pigmented mass or “ phaeodium ” in the ectoplasm of Phaeodaria appears to be an excretory product, formed within the central capsule and passing immediately outwards; a similar uniform deposit of pigmented granules occurs in the Colloid species, Thalassicolla nucleate. The wall of the central capsule is simple in the Spumellaria, but formed of two layers in the Nassellaria and Phaeodaria. In the Nassellaria the oscule is simply a perforated area, and a cone of differentiated fibres in the intracapsular cytoplasm has its base on it: it is termed the “porocone,” and the fibres may possibly be muscular (myonemes). In Phaeodaria, the inner membrane at each oscule is prolonged through the outer into a tube (“proboscis”): the outer membrane of the principal oscule forms a large radially striated circular plate, the “ astropyle,” or “ operculum.” The innermost shell of some with concentric shells may lie within the central capsule, or even within the nucleus; this is due to the growth of these organs after the initial shell is formed, so that they pass out by lobes through the latticed openings of the embryonic shell, which lobes ultimately coalesce outside the embryonic chamber, and so come finally to invest it (fig. in. 17). In some, a symbiosis occurs with Zooxanthella, Brandt, a Flagellate of the group Chrysomadineae, which in the resting state inhabits the extracapsular cytoplasm growing and dividing freely therein, and only (under study) becoming free and flagellate on the death of the host (fig. in. 4» 6-13)· The Silicoflagellata or Dictyochidae, also possessing a vegetable colouring matter, but with a skeleton of impure silica (like that of Phaeodaria), may pass some of their lives in symbiosis with Radiolaria.
Living Radiolaria were first observed and partially described by W. J. Tilcsius in 1803-6 and 1814, by W. Baird in 1830, and by C. G. Ehrenberg in 1831, as luminous organisms in the sea; F. J. F. Meyen in 1834 recognized their animal character and the siliceous nature of their spicules. Ehrenberg a little later described a large number of Nassellarian skeletons under the
name of Polycystina (1838), but without more than a very slight knowledge of a few living forms. T. H. Huxley in 1851 made the first adequate study of the living animal, and was followed by Joh. Mtiller in the same decade. E. Haeckel began his publications in 1862, and in two enormous, abundantly illustrated, systematic works, besides minor publications, has dealt exhaustively with the cytology, classification, and distribution of the class. Next in value come the contributions of Richard Hertwig (largely developmental), besides those of L. Cienkowsky, Karl Brandt and A. Borgert, while to F. Dreyer and V. Hacker we owe valuable studies on the physical relations of the skeleton.
Our classification is taken from Haeckel.
A. Spumellaria, Haeck. (Peripylaea, Hertwig). Central capsule perforated with numerous evenly distributed pores. Skeleton siliceous,^ latticed or of detached spicules, or absent. Form homaxoriic or with at least three planes of symmetry intersecting at right angles, rarely irregular or spiral, sometimes forming colonies, i.e. with several central capsules in a common external cytoplasm.
I. Skeleton of detached spicules, or absent.
Fam. I. Colloidea. Skeleton absent. Thalassicolla, Huxl.
(figs. i. and in. 1); Thalassophysa, Haeck.; Collozoum, Haeck. (fig. in. 2-5, 15, 16); Actissa, Haeck.
Fam. 2. Beloidea. Skeleton spicular. .Sphaerozoum, Haeck.; Raphidozoum, Haeck.
II. Skeleton latticed or spongy-reticulate.
Fam. 3. Sphaeroidea. Skeleton homaxial, sometimes colonial. Collosphaera, Mull.; Haliomma, Ehrb.; Actinomma% Haeck. (fig. in. 17), showing concentric latticed shells, the smallest intranuclear, all connected by radial spines; Spongosphaera, Haeck. (fig. iv. 8); Hclio-sphaera, Haeck. (fig. in. 14).
Fam. 4. Prunoidea. Skeleton a prolate spheroid or cylinder of circular section, sometimes constricted like a dice-box.
Fam. 5. Discoidea. Shell flattened, of circular plan, rarely becoming spiral.
Fam. 6. Larcoidea. Shell with three unequal axes, elliptical in the plane of any two, more rarely becoming irregular or spiral.
B. Acantharial Haeck. (Actipylaea, Hertw.). Skeleton of spicules of acanthm radiating from a centre, and usually twenty,
disposed on five successive zones of four on alternating meridians, the zones corresponding to equator, tropics and circumpolar circles on the globe; pores of central capsule in scattered groups.
C. Nassellaria, Haeck. (Monopylaea, Hertw.). Silicon-skeletal Radiolaria in which the central capsule is typically monaxonic (cone-shaped), with a single perforate area (pore-plate) placed on the basal face of the cone; the membrane of the capsule, the nucleus single; the skeleton is extracapsular, and forms a scaffold-like or beehivelike structure of monaxonic form, a tripod or calthrop, a sagittal ring, or a combination of these.
D. Phaeodaria, Haeck. (Tripylaea, Hertw.). Radiolaria of cruciate symmetry, prolonged into tubular processes with three oscula to the central capsule, one inferior, the principal, and two symmetrically placed on either side of the opposite pole; skeleton of spicules, a network of hollow filaments, or a minutely alveolate shell, of a combination of silica with organic substance; extra-capsular protoplasm containing in front of the large oscule an agglomeration of dusky purplish or greenish pigment (“ phae-odium ”).
The following passages may be repeated here from Sir E. Ray Lankester’s article “ Protozoa ” in the 9th edition of this Encyclopaedia:—
“ The important differences in the structure of the central capsule of different Radiolaria were first shown by Hertwig, who also discovered that the spines of the Acanthometridea consist not of silica but of an organic compound (but see above). In view of this latter fact and of the peculiar numerical and architectural features of the Acanthometrid skeleton, it seems proper to separate them altogether from the other Radiolaria. The Peripylaea may be regarded as the starting-point of the Radiolarian pedigree, and have given rise on the one hand to the Acanthometridea, which
Fig. III.—Radiolaria. 1. Central capsule of Thalassicolla nucleata, Huxley, in radial section, a, the large nucleus (Binnenbläschen); b, corpuscular structures of the intracapsular protoplasm containing concretions ; c, wall of the capsule (membranous shell), showing the fine radial pore-canals; d, nucleolar fibres (chromatin substance) of the nucleus. 2,    3. Collozoum
inerme, J. Müller, two different forms of colonies, of the natural size. 4. Central capsule from a colony of Collozoum inerme, showing the intracapsular protoplasm and nucleus, broken up into a number of spores, the germs of swarm-spores or flagellulae; each encloses a crystalline rod. c, yellow cells lying in the extracapsular protoplasm. 5. A small colony of Collozoum inerme, magnified 25 diameters, a, alveoli (vacuoles) of the extracapsular protoplasm; by central capsules, each containing besides protoplasm a large oil-globule. 6-13. Yellow cells of various Radiolaria: 6, normal yellow cell; 7. 8, division with formation of transverse septum; 9, a modified condition according to Brandt; 10, division of a yellow cell into four; 11, amoeboid condition of a yellow cell from the body of a dead Sphaerozoon; 12, a similar cell in process of division; 13, a yellow cell the protoplasm of which is creeping out of its cellulose envelope.
14.    Heliosphaera inermis, Haeck., living example; X 400. a, nucleus; 6, central capsule; ct siliceous basket-work skeleton,
15.    Two swarm-spores (flagellulae) of Collozoum inerme, set free
from such a central capsule as that drawn in 4; each contains a crystal b and a nucleus a. 16. Two swarm-spores of Collo-sottm intrmty of the second kind, viz. devoid of crystals, and of two sizes, a macrospore and a microspore. They have been set free from central capsules with contents of a different appearance from that drawn in 4. a, nucleus. 17. Actinomma astera-canthion, Haeck.; X 260; one of the Peripylaea. Entire animal in optical section, a, nucleus; b, wall of the central capsule; c, innermost siliceous shell enclosed in the nucleus; c1 , middle shell lying within the central capsule; outer shell lying in the extracapsular protoplasm. Four radial siliceous spines holding the three spherical shells together are seen. The radial fibrillation of the protoplasm and the fine extracapsular pseudopodia are to be noted. 18. Amphilonche messonensis, Haeck.; X 200; one of the Acanthometridea. Entire animal as seen living.
Fig. IV.—Radiolaria.    1. Lithocircus annularis, Hertwig; one
of the Monopylaea. Whole animal in the living state (optical section); a, nucleus; 6, wall of the central capsule; ct yellow cells; d, perforated area of the central capsule (Monopylaea).
2. Cystidium inerme, Hertwig; one of the Monopylaea. Living animal. An example of a Monopylacon destitute of skeleton, a, nucleus; b, capsule-wall; c, yellow cells in the extracapsular protoplasm. 3. Carpocanittm diadema, Haeek.; optical section of the beehive-shaped shell to show the form and position
of the protoplasmic body, a, the tri-lobed nucleus; bt the siliceous shell; c, oil-rlobules; d, the perforate area (pore-plate) of the central capsule. 4. Coelodenarum gracillimum, Haeck.; living animal, complete; one of the Tripylaea. a, the characteristic dark pigment (phaeodium) surrounding the central capsule b. The peculiar branched siliceous skeleton, consisting of hollow fibres, and the expanded pseudopodia are seen. 5. Central capsule of one of the Tripylaea, isolated, showing at the nucleus; b, c, the inner and the outer laminae of the capsule wall; d, the chief or polar aperture; £, £, the two secondary apertures. 6, 7. Acanthometra claparedei, Haeck. 7 shows the animal in optical section, so as to exhibit the characteristic meeting of the spines at the central point as in all Acanthometridea; 6 shows the transition from the uninuclear to the multinuclear condition by the breaking up of the large nucleus, a, small nuclei; bf large fragments of the single nucleus; c, wall of the central capsule; d, extracapsular jelly (not protoplasm); ef peculiar intracapsular yellow cells. 8. Spongosphaera streptacantha, Haeck.; one of the Peripylaea. Siliceous skeleton not quite completely drawn on the right side, a, the spherical extracapsular shell (compare fig. in. 17), supporting very large radial spines which are connected by a spongy network of siliceous fibres. 9. Aulo-sphaera elegantissima, Haeck.; one of the Phaeodaria. Half of the spherical siliceous skeleton.
retain the archaic structure of the central capsule whilst developing a peculiar skeleton, and on the other hand to the Monopylaea and Phaeodaria, which have modified the capsule but retained the siliceous skeleton.
" The occasional total absence of any siliceous or acanthi nous skeleton does not appear to be a matter of classificatory importance, since skeletal elements occur in close allies of those very few forms which are totally devoid of skeleton. Similarly it does not appear to be a matter of great significance that some forms (Polycyttaria) form colonies, instead of the central capsules separating from one another after fission has occurred.
"It is important to note that the skeleton of silex or acanthin does not correspond to the shell of other Sarcodina, which appears rather to be represented by the membranous central capsule. The skeleton does, however, appear to correspond to the spicules of Heliozoa, and there is an undeniable affinity between such a form as Clathrulina and the Sphaerid Peripylaea (such as Heliosphaera, fig. in. 14). The Radiolaria are, however, a very strongly marked group, definitely separated from all other Sarcodina by the membranous central capsule sunk in their protoplasm. Their differences inter se do not affect their essential structure. The variations in the chemical composition of the skeleton and in the perforation of the capsule do not appear superficially. The most obvious features in which they differ from one another relate to the form and complexity of the skeleton, a part of the organism so little characteristic of the group that it may be wanting altogether. It is not known how far the form-species and form-genera which have been distinguished in such profusion by Haeckel as the result of a study of the skeletons are permanent (t.e. relatively permanent) physiological species. There is no doubt that very many are local and conditional varieties, or even merely stages of growth, of a single Protean species. The same remark applies to the species discriminated among the shell-bearing Reticulana. It must not be supposed, however, that less importance is to be attached to the distinguishing and recording of such forms because we are not able to assert that they are permanent species.
" The streaming of the granules of the protoplasm has been observed in the pseudopodia of Radiolaria as in those of Heliozoa and Reticularia; it has also been seen in the deeper protoplasm; and granules have been definitely seen to pass through the pores of the central capsule from the mtracapsular to the extracapsular proto-
Clasm. A feeble vibrating movement of the pseudopodia has een occasionally^noticed.
" The production of swarm-spores has been observed only in 'Aeanthometra and in the Polycyttaria and Thalassicollidae, and only in the two latter groups have any detailed observations been made. Two distinct processes of swarm-spore production have been ^ observed by Cienkowski, confirmed by Hertwig,—distinguished by the character of the' resulting spores, ^which are called 1 crystalligerous * and ' isospores * (fig. in. 15) in the one case, and ' dimorphous ' or * anisospores * in the^ other (fig. in. 16). In both processes the nucleated protoplasm within the central capsule breaks up by a more or less regular cell-division into small
Fieces, the details of the process differing a little in the two cases.
n those individuals which produce crystalligerous swarm-spores, each spore encloses a small crystal (fig. 1 u. 15). On the other hand, in those individuals which produce dimorphous swarm-spores, the contents of the capsule (which in both instances are set free by its natural rupture) are seen to consist of individuals of two sizes, * megaspores ’ and 1 microspores/ neither of which contain crystals (fig. ill. 16). The further development of the spores has not been observed in either case. Both processes have been observed in the same species, and it is suggested that there is an alternation of sexual and asexual generations, the crystalligerous spores developing directly into adults, which in their turn produce in their central capsules dimorphous swarm-spores (megaspores and microspores), which in a manner analogous to that observed in the Volvocinean Flagellata copulate (permanently fuse) with one another (the larger with the smaller) before proceeding to develop. The adults resulting from this process would, it is suggested, produce in their turn crystalligerous swarm-spores. Unfortunately we have no observations to support this hypothetical scheme of a life-history.
“ Fusion or conjugation of adult Radiolaria, whether preliminary to swarm-spore-production or independently of it, has not been observed—this affording a distinction between them and Heliozoa.
“ Simple fission of the central capsule of adult individuals, preceded of course by nuclear fission, and subsequently of the whole protoplasmic mass, has been observed in several genera of Acan-tharia and Phaeodaria, and is probably a general method of reproduction in the group. In Spumellaria it gives rise to colonial ‘ Polycyttarian ’ forms when the extracapsular protoplasm does not divide.
“ The siliceous shells of the Radiolaria are found abundantly in certain rocks from Palaeozoic times^ onwards. .They furnish, together with Diatoms and Sponge spicules, the silica which has been segregated as Hint in the Chalk formation. They are present in quantity (as much as 10%) in the Atlantic ooze, and in the celebrated 1 Barbados earth 9 (a Tertiary deposit) are the chief components.”
Bibliography.—The most important systematic works are those of E. Haeckel, Die Radiolarien (1862-87), and the “ Report ” on the Radiolaria of the “ Challenger ” Expedition (vol. xviii., 1887), which contains full lists of the older literature.^ Among the most important recent studies we cite K. Brandt, ” Die Koloniebildenden Radiolarien ” in Fauna and Flora des Golfes von Neapel, xii. (1885); A. Borgert in Zeitschrift f. Wissenschaftliche Zoologie, li. (1891), and Zoologische Jahrbiicher (Anatomic), xiii. (1900); F. Dreyer in Jenaischer Zeitschr., xix. (1892); V. Hacker in Zeitsch. /. Wiss. Zool.% lxxxiii. (1905).    (M. Ha.)
1
RADIOMETER. It had been remarked at various times, amongst others by Fresnel, that bodies delicately suspended within a partial vacuum are subject to apparent repulsion by radiation. The question was definitely investigated by Sir W. Crookes, who had found that some delicate weighings in vacuo were vitiated by this cause. It appeared that a surface blackened so as to absorb the radiant energy directed on it was repelled relatively to a polished surface. He constructed an apparatus in illustration, which he called a radiometer or light-mill, by pivoting a vertical axle carrying equidistant vertical vanes inside an exhausted glass bulb, one side of each vane being blackened and the other side bright, the blackened sides all pointing the same way round the axle. When the rays of the sun or a candle, or dark radiation from a warm body, are incident on the vanes, the dark side of each vane is repelled more than the bright side, and thus the vanes are set into rotation with accelerated speed, which becomes uniform when the forces produced by the radiation are balanced by the friction of the pivot and of the residual air in the globe. The name radiometer arose from an idea that the final steady speed of rotation might be utilized as a rough measure of the intensity of the exciting radiation.
The problem of the cause of these striking and novel phenomena at first produced considerable perplexity. A preliminary question was whether the mechanical impulsion was a direct effect of the light, or whether the radiation only set up internal stresses, acting in and through the residual air, between the vanes and the walls of the enclosure. The answer to this was found experimentally by Arthur Schuster, who suspended the whole instrument in delicate equilibrium, and observed the effect of introducing the radiation. If the light exerted direct impulsion on the vanes, their motion would gradually drag the case round after them, by reason of the friction of the residual air in the bulb and of the pivot. On the other
hand, if the effects arose from balanced stresses set up inside the globe by the radiation, the effects on the vanes and on the case would be of the nature of action and reaction, so that the establishment of motion of the vanes in one direction would involve impulsion of the case in the opposite direction; but when the motion became steady there would no longer be any torque either on the vanes or on the case, and the latter would therefore come back to its previous position of equilibrium; finally, when the light was turned off, the decay of the motion of the vanes would involve impulsion of the case in the direction of their motion until the moment of the restoring torque arising from the suspension of the case had absorbed the angular momentum in the system. Experiment showed that the latter prediction was what happened. The important part played by the residual air in the globe had also been deduced by Osborne Reynolds from observing that on turning off the light, the vanes came to rest very much sooner than the friction of the pivot alone would account for; in fact, the rapid subsidence is an illustration of Maxwell’s great theoretical discovery that viscosity in a gas (as also diffusion both of heat and of the gas itself) is sensibly independent of the density. Some phenomena of retardation in the production of the effect had led Sir G. G. Stokes and Sir W. Crookes to the same general conclusion.
The origin of these phenomena was recognized, among the first by O. Reynolds, and by P. G. Tait and J. Dewar, as a consequence of the kinetic theory of the constitution of gaseous media. The temperature of a gas is measured by the mean energy of translation of its molecules, which are independent of each other except during the brief intervals of collision; and collision of the separate molecules with the blackened surface of a vane, warmed by the radiation, imparts heat to them, so that they rebound from it with greater velocity than they approached. This increase of velocity implies an increase of the reaction on the surface, the black side of a vane being thus pressed with greater force than the bright side. In air of considerable density the mean free path of a molecule, between its collisions with other molecules, is exceedingly small, and any such increase of gaseous pressure in front of the black surface would be immediately neutralized by flow of the gas from places of high to places of low pressure. But at high exhaustions the free path becomes comparable with the dimensions of the glass bulb, and this equalization proceeds slowly. The general nature of the phenomena is thus easily understood; but it is at a maximum at pressures comparable with a millimetre of mercury, at which the free path is still small, the greater number of molecules operating in intensifying the result. The problem of the stresses in rarefied gaseous media arising from inequalities of temperature, which is thereby opened out, involves some of the most delicate considerations in molecular physics. It remains practically as it was left in 1879 by two memoirs communicated to the Phil. Trans. by Osborne Reynolds and by Clerk Maxwell: The method of the latter investigator was purely a priori. He assumed that the distribution of molecules and of their velocities, at each point, was slightly modified, from the exponential law belonging to a uniform condition, by the gradient of temperature in the gas (see Diffusion). The hypothesis that the state was steady, so that interchanges arising from convection and collisions of the molecules produced no aggregate result, enabled him to interpret the new constants involved in this law of distribution, in terms of the temperature and its spacial differential coefficients, and thence to express the components of the kinetic stress at each point in the medium in terms of these quantities. As far as the order to which he carried the approximations— which, however, were based on a simplifying hypothesis that the molecules influenced each other through mutual repulsions inversely as the fifth power of their distance apart—the result was that the equations of motion of the gas, considered as subject to viscous and thermal stresses, could be satisfied by a state of equilibrium under a modified internal pressure equal in all directions. If, therefore, the walls of the enclosure held
the gas that is directly in contact with them, this equilibrium would be the actual state of affairs; and it would follow from the principle of Archimedes that, when extraneous forces such as gravity arc not considered, the gas would exert no resultant force on any body immersed in it. On this ground Maxwell inferred that the forces acting in the radiometer arc connected with gliding of the gas along the unequally heated boundaries; and as the laws of this slipping, as well as the constitution of the adjacent layer, are uncertain, the problem becomes vciy intricate. Such slipping had shown itself at high exhaustions in the experiments of A. A. Kundt and E. G. Warburg in 1875 on the viscosity of gases; its effects would be corrected for, in general, by a slight effective addition to the thickness of the gaseous layer.
Reynolds, in his investigation, introducing no new form of law of distribution of velocities, uses a linear quantity, proportional to the mean free path of the gaseous molecules, which he takes to represent (somewhat roughly) the average distance from which molecules directly affect, by their convection, the state of the medium; the gas not being uniform on account of the gradient of temperature, the change going on at each point is calculated from the elements contributed by the parts at this particular distance in all directions. He lays stress on the dimensional relations of the problem, pointing out that the phenomena which occur with large vanes in highly rarefied gas could also occur with proportionally smaller vanes in gas at higher pressure. The results coincide with Maxwell's so far as above stated, though the numerical coefficients do not agree. According to Maxwell, priority in showing the necessity for slipping over the boundary rests with Reynolds, who also discovered the cognate fact of thermal transpiration, meaning thereby that gas travels up the gradient of temperature in a capillary tube, owing to surface-actions, until it establishes such a gradient of pressure (extremely minute) as will prevent further flow. In later memoirs Reynolds followed up this subject by proceeding to establish definitions of the velocity and the momentum and the energy at an element of volume of the molecular medium, with the precision necessary in order that the dynamical equations of the medium in bulk, based in the usual manner on these quantities alone, without directly considering thermal stresses, shall be strictly valid—a discussion in which the relation of ordinary molar mechanics to the more complete molecular theory is involved.
Of late'years the peculiarities of the radiometer at higher gas-pressures have been very completely studied by E. F. Nichols and G. F. Hull, with the result that there is a certain pressure at which the molecular effect of the gas on a pair of nearly vertical vanes is balanced by that of convection currents in it. By thus controlling and partially eliminating the aggregate gas-effect, they succeeded in making a small radiometer, horizontally suspended, into a delicate and reliable measurer of the intensity of the radiation incident on it. With the experience thus gained in manipulating the vacuum, the achievement of thoroughly verifying the pressure of radiation on both opaque and transparent bodies, in accordance with Clerk Maxwell's formula, has been effected (Physical Review, 1901, and later papers) by E. F. Nichols and G. F. Hull; some months earlier Lebedew had published in the Annalen der Physik a verification for metallic vanes so thin as to avoid the gas-action, by preventing the production of sensible difference of temperature between the two faces by the incident radiation. (See Radiation.)
More recently J. H. Poynting has separated the twO effects experimentally on the principle that the radiometer pressure acts along the normal, while the radiation pressure acts along the ray which may be directed obliquely.    (J· L.*)
RADISH, Rapkanus satimis (nat. order Cruciferae), in botany, a fleshy-rooted annual, unknown in the wild state. Some varieties of the wild radish, R. Raphanistrum, however, met with on the Mediterranean coasts, come so near to it as to suggest that it may possibly be a cultivated race of the same species. It is very popular as a raw salad. There, arc
two principal forms, the spindle-rooted and the turnip-rooted.
The radish succeeds in any well-worked not too heavy garden soil, but requires a warm, sheltered situation. The seed is generally sown broadcast, in beds 4 to 5 ft. wide, with alleys between, the beds requiring to be netted over to protect them from birds. The earliest crop may be sown about the middle of December, the seed-beds being at once covered with litter, which should not be removed till the plants come up, and then only in the daytime, and when there is no frost. If the crop succeeds, which depends on the state of the weather, it will be in use about the beginning of March. Another sowing may be made in January, a third early in February, if the season is a favourable one, and still another towards the end of February, from which time till October a small sowing should be made every fortnight or three weeks in spring, and rather more frequently during summer. About the end of October, and again in November, a late sowing may be made on a south border or bank, the plants being protected in severe weather with litter or mats. The winter radishes, which grow to a large size, should be sown in the beginning of July and in August, in drills from 6 to 9 in. apart, the plants being thinned out to 5 or 6 in. in the row'. The roots become fit for use during the autumn. For winter use they should be taken up before severe frost sets in, and stored in dry sand. Radishes, like other fleshy roots, are attacked by insects, the most dangerous being the larvae of several species of fly, especially the radish fly (Anthomyia radicnm). The most effectual means of destroying these is by watering the plants with a dilute solution of carbolic acid, or much diluted gas-water; or gas-lime may be sprinkled along the rows.
Forcing.—To obtain early radishes a .sowing in the British Isles should be made about the beginning of November, and continued fortnightly till the middle or end of February; the crop will generally tie fit for use about six weeks after sowing. The seed should be sown in light rich soil, 8 or 9 in. thick, on a moderate hotbed, or in a pit with a temperature of from 550 to 65°. Gentle waterings must be given, and air admitted at every favourable opportunity; but the sashes must be protected at night and in frosty weather with straw mats or other materials. Some of these .crops are often grown with forced potatoes. The best forcing sorts are Wood's early frame, and the early rose globe, early dwarf-top scarlet turnip, and early dwarf-top white turnip.
Those best suited for general cultivation are the following:—
Spindle-rooted.—Long scarlet, including the sub-varieties scarlet short-top, early frame scarlet, and Wood? early frame; long scarlet short-top, best for general crop.
Turnip-rooted.—Early rose globe-shaped, the earliest of all; early dwarf-top scarlet turnip, and early dwarf-top white turnip; earliest Erfurt scarlet, and early white short-leaved, both very early sorts; French breakfast, olive-shaped; red turnip and white turnip, for summer crops.
Winter sorts.—Black Spanish, white Chinese, Californian mammoth.
RADIUM (from Lat. radius, ray), a metallic chemical element obtained from pitchblende, a uranium mineral, by P. and Mme. Curie and G. Bemont in 1898; it was so named on account of the intensity of the radioactive emanations which it yielded. Its discovery was a sequel to H. Becquerel’s observation in 1896 that certain uranium preparations emitted a radiation resembling the X rays observed by Rontgen in 1895. Like the X rays, the Becquerel rays are invisible; they both traverse thin sheets of glass or metal, and cannot be refracted; moreover, they both ionize gases, ix. they discharge a charged electroscope, the latter, however, much more feebly than the former. Characteristic, also, is their action on a photographic plate, and the phosphorescence which they occasion when they impinge on zinc sulphide and some other salts. Notwithstanding these resemblances, these two sets of rays are not indentical. Mme. Curie, regarding radioactivity—ix. the emission of rays like those just mentioned—as a property of some undiscovered substance, submitted pitchblende to a most careful analysis. After removing the uranium, it was found that the bismuth separated with a very active substance—polonium; this element was afterwards isolated by Marckwald, and proved to be identical with his radiotellurium; that the barium could be
separated with another active substance—radium; whilst a third fraction, composed mainly of the rare earths (thorium, &c.), yielded to Dehierne another radioactive element—actinium, which proved to be identical with the emanium of Giesel. Another radioactive substance—ionium—was isolated from car-notite, a uranium mineral, by B. B. Boltwood in 1905. Radioactive properties have also been ascribed to other elements, e.g. thorium and lead. There is more radium than any other radioactive element, but its excessive rarity may be gauged by the facts that Mme. Curie obtained only a fraction of a gramme of the chloride and Giesel -2 to *3 gramme of the bromide from a ton of uranium residues.
There is a mass of evidence to show that radium is to be regarded as an element, and in general its properties resemble those of the metals of the alkaline earths, more particularly barium. To the bunsen flame a radium salt imparts an intense carmine-red colour (barium gives, a green). The spectrum, also, is very characteristic. The atomic weight, 226-4, places the element in a vacant position in group II. of the periodic classification, along with the alkaline earth metals.
Generally speaking, the radiation is not simple. Radium itself emits three types of rays: (1) the a rays, which are regarded as positively charged helium atoms; these rays are stopped by a single sheet of paper; (2) the $ rays, which are identified with the cathode rays, i.e. as a single electron charged negatively; these rays can penetrate sheets of aluminium, glass, &c., several millimetres thick; and (3) the 7 rays—which are non-electrified radiations characterized by a high penetrating power, 1% surviving after traversing 7 cm. of lead or 150 cm. of water. In addition, radium evolves an “ emanation ” which is an extraordinarily inert gas, recalling the “ inactive ” gases of the atmosphere. Wa thus see that radium is continually losing matter and energy as electricity; it is also losing energy as heat, for, as was observed by Curie and Laborde, the temperature of a radium salt is always a degree or two above that of the atmosphere, and they estimated that a gramme of pure radium would emit about 100 gramme-calories per hour.
The Becquerel rays have a marked chemical action on certain substances. The Curies showed that oxygen was convertible into ozone, and Sudborough that yellow phosphorus gave the red modification when submitted to their influence. More interesting are the observations of D. Berthelot, F. Bordas, C. Doelter and others, that the rays induce important changes in the colours of many minerals. (See Radioactivity.)
The action of radium on human tissues was unknown until 1901, when, Professor Becquerel of Paris having incautiously carried a tube in his waistcoat pocket, there appeared on the skin within fourteen days a severe inflammation which was known as the famous “ Becquerel burn.” Since that time active investigation into the action of radium on diseased tissues has been carried on, resulting in the establishment in Paris in 1906 of the “ Laboratoire biologique du Radium.” Similar centres for study have been inaugurated in other countries, notably one in London in 1909. The diseases to which the application has been hitherto confined are papillomata, lupus vulgaris, epithelial tumours, syphilitic ulcers, pigmentary naevi, angiomata, and pruritus and chronic itching of the skin; but the use of radium in therapeutics is still experimental. The different varieties of rays used are controlled by the intervention of screens or filtering substances, such as silver, lead or aluminium. Radium is analgesic and bactericidal in its action.
See Radiumtherapie, by Wickham and Degrais (1909); Die therapeutische Wirkung der Radi urns irakien, by O. Lassar, in Report of Radiology Congress, Brussels, 1906; E. Dorn, E. Baumann and S. Valentiner in Physische Zeitung (1905); Abbé in Medical Record (October 1907).
RADIUS, properly a straight rod, bar or staff, the original meaning of the Latin word, to which also many of the various meanings seen in English were attached; it was thus applied to the spokes of a wheel, to the semi-diameter of a circle or sphere and to a ray or beam of light, “ ray ” itself coming through the Fr. raie from radius. From this last sense comes “ radiant,” “ radiation,” and allied words. In mathematics, a radius is a straight line drawn from the centre to the circumference of a circle or to the surface of a sphere; in anatomy the name is applied to the outer one of the two bones of the fore-arm in man or to the corresponding bone in the fore-leg of animals. It is also used in various other anatomical senses in botany, ichthyology, entomology, &c. A further application of the term is to an area the extent of which is marked by the length of the radius from the point which is taken as the centre; thus, in London, for the purpose of reckoning the fare of hackney-carriages, the radius is taken as extending four miles in any direction from Charing Cross.
RADNOR, EARLS OF. The 1st earl of Radnor was John Robartes (1606-1685), who succeeded his father, Richard Robartes, as 2nd baron Robartes of Truro in May 1634, the barony having been purchased under compulsion for £10,000 in 1625. The family had amassed great wealth by trading in tin and wool. Educated at Exeter College, Oxford, John Robartes fought on the side of the Parliament during the Civil War, being present at the battle of Edgehill and at the first battle of Newbury, and was a member of the committee of both kingdoms. He is said to have persuaded the earl of Essex to make his ill-fated march into Cornwall in 1644; he escaped with the earl from Lostwithiel and was afterwards governor of Plymouth. Between the execution of Charles I. and the restoration of Charles II. he took practically no part in public life, but after 1660 he became a prominent public man, owing his prominence partly to his influence among the Presbyterians, and ranged himself among Clarendon's enemies. He was lord deputy of Ireland in 1660-1661 and was lord lieutenant in 1669-1670; from 1661 to 1673 he was lord privy seal, and from 1679 to 1684 lord president of the council. In 1679 he was created viscount Bodmin and earl of Radnor, and he died at Chelsea on the 17th of July 1685. His eldest son, Robert, viscount Bodmin, who was British envoy to Denmark, having predeceased his father, the latter was succeeded as 2nd earl by his grandson, Charles Bod vile Robartes (1660-1723), who was a member of parliament under Charles II. and James II., and was lord lieutenant of Cornwall from 1696 to 1705 and again from 1714 to 1723. Henry, the 3rd earl (c. 1690-1741), was also a grandson of the 1 st earl, and John, the 4th earl (c. 1686-1757), was another grandson. When John, whose father was Francis Robartes (c. 1650-1718), a member of parliament for over thirty years and a musician of some repute, died unmarried in July 1757, his titles became extinct.
Lanhydrock, near Bodmin, and the other estates of the Robartes family passed to the earl's nephews, Thomas and George Hunt. Thomas Hunt's grandson and heir, Thomas James Agar-Robartes (1808-1882), a grandson of an Irish peer, James Agar, 1st viscount Clifden (1734-1789), was created baron Robartes of Lanhydrock and of Truro in 1869, after having represented East Cornwall in seven parliaments. His son and successor, Thomas Charles Agar-Robartes, the 2nd baron (b. 1844), succeeded his kinsman as 6th viscount Clifden in 1899.
In 1765 William Bouverie, 2nd viscount Folkestone (1725-1776), son of Sir Jacob Bouverie, bart. (d. 1761), of Longford, Wiltshire, who was created viscount Folkestone in 1747, was made earl of Radnor. Descended from a Huguenot family, William Bouverie was a member of parliament from 1747 until he succeeded to the peerage in February 1761. He died on the 28th of January 1776. His son and successor, Jacob, the 2nd earl (1750-1828), who took the name of Pleydell-Bouverie in accordance with the will of his maternal grandfather, Sir Mark Stuart Pleydell, bart. (d. 1768), was the father of William Pleydell-Bouverie, the 3rd earl (1779-1869), a politician of some note. In 1900 his great-grandson, Jacob Pleydell-Bouverie (b. 1868), became 6th earl of Radnor.
RADNORSHIRE (Sir Faesyfed), an inland county of Wales, bounded N. by Montgomery, N.E. by Shropshire, E. by Hereford, S. and S.W. by Brecknock and N.W. by Cardigan. This county, which is lozenge-shaped, contains 471 sq. m., and is
consequently the smallest in area of the six South Welsh counties. Nearly the whole surface'of Radnorshire is hilly or undulating, whilst the centre is occupied by the mountainous tract known as Radnor Forest, of which the highest point attains an elevation of 2163 ft. Towards the S. and S.E. the hills are less lofty, and the valleys broaden out into considerable plains abounding in rivulets. The hills for the most part present smooth, rounded outlines, and are covered with heather, bracken and short grass, though tracts of boggy soil in the uplands are not uncommon. There are rich pastures and numerous woods in the valleys of the Wye and Teme. The Wye Valley has long been celebrated for its beauty, while Radnor Forest and the wild district of Cwmdauddwr present striking views of primeval and unspoiled scenery. Radnorshire is well supplied with water, its principal river being the Wye (Gwy), which, after crossing the N.W. corner of the county, forms its boundary from Rhayader onward to the English border. Salmon, trout and grayling are plentiful, and the Wye is consequently much frequented by anglers; as are also its tributaries—the Elan (which has been utilized for the great Birmingham reservoirs) the Ithon, the Edw or Edwy, the Lug, the Arrow and the Somergil. The Teme, which divides Radnor from Shropshire on the N.E., is a tributary of the Severn. All these streams are clear and rapid, and abound in fish. In the numerous rocky ravines of the mountainous districts are found many waterfalls, of which the most celebrated is “ Water-brcak-its-Neck,” to the W. of New Radnor. Omitting the artificially constructed reservoirs in the valleys of the Elan and Claerwen, the lakes of Radnorshire arc represented only by a few pools of which Llynbychlyn near Painscastle is the largest.
Geology.—Ordovician rocks occupy most of the western side of the county, they are succeeded eastward by the Silurian formations, the Llandovery, Wen lock and Ludlow beds in the order here given. East of New Radnor an inlier of Wenlock rocks is surrounded by Ludlow beds; while at Old Radnor a ridge of very ancient rocks appears. In the south-east of the county Old Red Sandstone rests upon the Silurian. Between Llandrindod, where there are saline, sulphurous and chalybeate wells, and Builth, is a disturbed area of Ordovician strata with masses of andesitic and diabasic igneous rocks. In the vicinity of Rhayader the strata have been classed as the Rhayader pale shales (Tarannon), the Caban group (Upper Llandovery), the Gwastaden group (Lower Llandovery); these rest upon shales of Bala age.
Climate and Industries.—The climate of Radnorshire is bracing, if somewhat bleak, and the rainfall is not so heavy as in the neighbouring counties of Montgomery and Brecknock, but thick drizzling mists are of constant occurrence. The winters are often very severe, and deep snowfalls are not^ uncommon. Good hay and tolerable crops of cereals are raised in the valleys, and the margin of cultivation has risen considerably since 1880. The extensive upland tracts, which still cover over one-third of the total area of the county, afford pasturage for mountain ponies and for large flocks of sheep. The quality of the wool of Radnorshire has long been celebrated, and also the delicacy of the Welsh mutton of the small sheep that are bred in this county. The most important sheep fairs are held at Rhayader, which also contains some woollen factories. There are practically no mining industries, nor are the quarries of great value. The valley of the Wye is rich in medicinal springs, and the saline, sulphur and chalybeate waters of Llandrindod have long been famous and profitable, and are growing in popular esteem.
Communications.—The Central Wales branch of the London & North-Western railway enters the county at Knighton, traverses it by way of Llandrindod and passes into Brecknock at Builth Road Junction on the Wye. The Cambrian railway, after passing through the N.W. corner of the county to Rhayader, follows the course of the Wye, by way of Builth and Hay. Two small branch lines connect New Radnor and Presteign with the system of the Great Western.
Population a)id Administration.—The area of Radnorshire is 301,164 acres, and the population in 1891 was 21,791, while in 1901 it had risen to 23,362; an increase chiefly due to the immigration of outside labourers to the Elan Valley waterworks. There is no existing municipal borough, although New Radnor, now a mere village with 405 inhabitants (1901), was incorporated in 1561 and its municipal privileges were not formally abolished till 1883. The chief towns are Presteign (pop. 1245); Llandrindod (1827); Knighton (2139), and Rhayader (1215);
all, except Rhayader, being urban districts. Radnorshire is included in the South Wales circuit, and assizes are held at Presteign, which ranks as the county town. There is no existing parliamentary borough, and the whole county returns one member to parliament. Ecclesiastically, Radnorshire is divided into 46 parishes, of which 38 lie in the diocese of St Davids, and 8 in that of Hereford.
History.—The wild district of Maesyfed (a name of which the derivation is much disputed), corresponding substantially with the modern Radnorshire, originally formed part of the territory of the Silures, who were vanquished by the Romans. Christianity seems to have been introduced into this barren region during the 5th and 6th centuries by itinerant Celtic missionaries, notably by St David, St Padarn and St Cynllo. Towards the close of the 9th century Maesyfed was absorbed into the middle kingdom of Powys, and in the 10th century it was included in the realm of Elystan Glodrudd, prince of Fferlys, or Feryllwg, who ruled over all land lying between the Wye and Severn. In the reign of William the Conqueror, the Normans began to penetrate into Maesyfed, where, according to Domesday Book, the king already laid claim to Radenoure, or Radnor (a name of doubtful meaning), in the lordship of Melenith (Moelynaidd), which was subsequently bestowed on the Mortimer family, when castles were erected at Old Radnor (Penygraig), New Radnor and Ccfnllys. Later, the Norman invaders forced their way up the Wye Valley, the de Breos family, lords of Elvel (Elfael), building fortresses at Painscastle and at Colwyn or Maud's Castle. In 1188 Archbishop Baldwin, accompanied by Ranulf de Glan-ville and Giraldus Cambrensis, entered Wales for the purpose of preaching the Third Crusade, and was met in full state at New Radnor by the Lord Rhys, prince of South Wales. The Wye Valley long formed one of the debatable districts between Welsh and Normans, and in 1282 Llewelyn ap Griffith, prince of Wales, was at Aberedw shortly before his death in a skirmish near Builth. After the annexation of Wales by Edward I., the district of Maesyfed remained under the immediate jurisdiction of the Lords-Marchers, represented by the great families of Mortimer and Todeney. During the summer of 1402 Owen Glendower entered the Marches and raided the lands of the young Edward Mortimer, earl of March, whilst the royal troops were severely defeated at the battle of Bryn Gkts near Pilleth. By the Act of Union (1536) Maesyfed was erected out of the suppressed lordships into an English shire on the usual model. For administrative purposes it was now divided into six hundreds, and assizes were ordained to be held in alternate years at Presteign and New Radnor. The newly created county was likewise privileged to return two members to parliament; one for the county, and one for the united boroughs of New Radnor, Rhayader, Knighton, Cefnllys and Knucklas (Cnwclas). The parliamentary district of the Radnor boroughs was, however, disfranchised and merged in the county representation under the act of 1885. The shire of Radnor with its immense tracts of sheep-walk, its absence of large towns and its sparse rural population has always been reckoned the poorest and least important of the Welsh counties, nor since its creation under Henry VIII. has it ever played a prominent part in the national life of Wales. During the Commonwealth the local clergy were made to suffer severely under the drastic administration of Vavasor Powell (1617-1670), himself a Radnorshire man as a native of Knucklas. Of recent years the rise of Llandrindod as a fashionable watering-place and the construction of the Birmingham reservoirs in the Elan Valley have tended to increase the material prosperity of the county.
Among the leading families of Radnorshire, may be mentioned Lewis of Harpton Court; Baskervillc of Clyro; Thomas (formerly Jones) of Pencerrig; Lewis-LIoyd of Nantgwyllt; Gwynne of Llanclwedd, and Prickard of Dderw.
Antiquities.—Radnorshire contains numerous memorials of early British times, of which the entrenchment called Crug-y-buddair in the parish of Beguildy is specially worthy of note. Of Roman remains, the most important arc those of the fortified camp at Cwm near Llandrindod, which is believed to be identical
with the military station of Magos or Magna. The course of Offa's Dyke (Clawdd Offa) is perceptible at various points in the hilly regions west of Knighton and Presteign. Very slight traces exist of the many castles erected at various times after the Norman invasion. The parish churches of Radnorshire are for the most part small and of rude construction, and many of them have been modernized or rebuilt. The churches at Old Radnor, Presteign and Llanbister, however, are interesting edifices, and a few possess fine oaken screens, as at Llananno and Llandegley. There was only one monastic house of consequence, the Cistercian abbey of St Mary, founded by Cadwallon ap Madoc in 1143 in “ the long valley " of the Clywedog, six miles east of Rhayader, and from its site commonly called Abbey Cwm Hir. Its existing ruins are insignificant, but the proportions of the church, which was 238 ft. long, are still traceable. The modern mansion adjoining, known as Abbey Cwm Hir, was for some generations the residence of the Fowler family, once reputed the wealthiest in the county.
Customs, &c.—Although in most instances the old Celtic place-names survive throughout the western portion of the county, it is only in the wild remote districts of Cwmdauddwr and St Harmon's that the Welsh tongue predominates, and in this region some of the old Welsh superstitions linger amongst the peasants and shepherds of the hills. In the eastern part of the county English is spoken universally, and the manners and customs of the inhabitants differ little from those prevailing in the neighbouring county of Hereford. On the western side of Radnor Forest the modern spirit of progress has destroyed most of the old local customs. Until the beginning of the 19th century the ancient Welsh service of the pylgain on Christmas morning was observed in Rhayader church; and the same town was formerly remarkable for an interesting ceremony, evidently of great antiquity, whereat after a funeral each attendant mourner was wont to throw a stone upon a certain spot near the church with the words “ Carn ar dy ben " (a stone on thy head). The laying of malicious sprites by means of lighted tapers was formerly practised in the churches of the Wye Valley; and a curious service, commemorative of the dead and known as “ the Month's End," is still observed in certain parish churches, a month after the actual funeral has taken place. The practice of farmers and.their wives or daughters riding to the local markets on ponies, the older women sometimes knitting as they proceed, still continues, and is specially characteristic of agricultural life in Radnorshire.
Sec A General History of the County of Radnor (compiled from the MS. of the late Rev. Jonathan Williams and other sources) (Brecknock, 19<>5)·
RADOM, a government of Russian Poland, occupying a triangular space between the Vistula and Pilica, and bounded N. by the governments of Warsaw and Siedlce, E. by Lublin, S. by the crownland of Austrian Galicia and the Polish government of Kielce, and W. by that of Piotrkfiw. The area is 4768 sq. m. Its southern part stretches over the well-wooded Sandomir heights, a series of short ranges of hills, 800 to 1000 ft. in altitude, intersected by deep valleys, which, running west and east and drained by tributaries of the Vistula, are excellently adapted for agriculture. In its central parts, the government is level, the soil fertile, and the surface, which is diversified here and there with wood, is broken up by occasional spurs (800 ft.) of the Lysa Gora Mountains. The northern districts consist of low, flat tracts with undefined valleys, exposed to frequent floods and covered over large areas with marshes; the basin of the Pilica, notorious for its unhealthiness, is throughout a low marshy plain. Devonian, Carboniferous, Permian and Triassic deposits appear in the south, Cretaceous and Jurassic in the middle, and Tertiary in the north. Extensive tracts are covered with Glacial deposits,—the Scandinavian erratics reaching as far south as Ilza; these last in their turn are overlain by widespread post-Glacial lacustrine deposits. The climate is cold and moist, the mean temperature for the year being 47°*s Fahr., for January -5°-8, and for July 770 . The Vistula skirts the government on the south and east, and is
an important means of communication, steamers plying as far up as Sandomir (S^domierz). The Sandomir district suffers occasionally from disastrous inundations of the river. The tributaries of the Vistula are short and small, those of the Pilica are sluggish streams meandering amidst marshes. The estimated population in 1906 was 932,800. The government is divided into seven districts, the chief towns of which are Radom, Ilza, Konskie, Kozienice, Opatow, Opoczno and Sandomir.    Out of the total area about 50% is under
cultivation and 28% under forests. The principal crops are wheat, rye, barley, oats, buck-wheat, hemp, flax and potatoes, these last chiefly cultivated for distilleries. Grain is exported. Live stock is kept in large numbers. Manufactures have considerably developed of late years, the government being rich in iron ore, while coal and zinc occur, as also marble, gypsum, alabaster, potters' clay and red sandstone. The iron industry occupies more than 60,000 workmen, and turns out annually some 100,000 tons of pig iron, 25,000 tons of iron, and 550,000 tons of steel. There are several sugar-works, tanneries, flour-mills, machinery works, distilleries, breweries and brickworks. Trade is not very extensive, the only channel of commerce being the Vistula. (P.A.K., J.T.Be.)
RADOM, a town of Russia, capital of the government of the same name, 100 m. by rail S. from Warsaw. Pop. 28,749, half of whom were Jews. It is one of the best built provincial towns of Poland. The church of St Wlaclaw, contemporary with the foundation of the town, was transformed by the Austrians into a storehouse, and subsequently by the Russian government into a military prison. The old castle is in ruins, and the old Bernardine monastery is used as barracks. Radom has several iron and agricultural machinery works and tanneries. In 1216 it occupied the site of what is now Old Radom. New Radom was founded in 1340 by Casimir the Great, king of Poland. Here Jadwiga was elected queen of Poland in 1382, and here too in 1401 the first act relating to the union of Poland with Lithuania was Signed; the seim or diet of 1505, where the organic law of Poland was sworn by the king, was also held at Radom. Several great fires, and still more the Swedish war of 1701-7, were the ruin of the old city. After the third partition of Poland in 1795 it fell under Austrian rule; it was in 1815 annexed to Russia, and beqame chief town of the province of Sandomir.
RADOMYSL, formerly Mychek, a town of Russia, in the government of Kiev, 31 m. W. of the city of Kiev, on the Teterev river. Pop. 18,154. It is a very old town, being mentioned in 1150; from 1746 to 1795 it was the residence of the metropolitan of the United Greek Church. It has tanneries and flour-mills, and exports timber, corn and mushrooms.
RADOWITZ, JOSEPH MARIA VON (1797-1853), Prussian general and statesman, was born at Blankenburg in the Harz Mountains, his family being of Hungarian origin. As a young lieutenant in the Westphalian artillery he was wounded and taken prisoner at the battle of Leipzig (1813), subsequently entered the Hanoverian service, and in 1823 that of Prussia. His promotion was rapid, and in 1830 he became, chief of the general staff of the artillery. In 1836 he went as Prussian military plenipotentiary to the federal diet at Frankfort, and in 1842 was appointed envoy to the courts of Carlsruhe, Darmstadt and Nassau. He had early become an intimate friend of the crown prince (afterwards King Frederick William IV.), and the Prussian constitution of February 1847 was an attempt to realize the ideas put forward by him in his Gespräche aus der Gegenwart über Staat und Kirche, published under the pseudonym “ Waldheim " in 1846. In November 1847 and March 1848 Radowitz was sent by King Frederick William to Vienna to attempt to arrange common action for the reconstruction of the German Confederation. In the Frankfort parliament he was leader of the extreme Right; and after its break-up he was zealous in promoting the Unionist policy of Prussia, which he defended both in the Prussian diet and in the Erfurt parliament. He was practically responsible for the foreign policy of Prussia from May 1848 onwards, and on the 27th of September 1850
he was appointed minister of foreign affairs. He resigned, however, on the 2nd of November, owing to the king’s refusal to settle the difficulties with Austria by an appeal to arms. In August 1852 he was appointed director of military education; but the rest of his life was devoted mainly to literary pursuits. He died on the 25th of December 1853.
Radowitz published, in addition to several political treatises, Ikonographie der Ileiligen, ein Beitrag zur Kunstgeschichte (Berlin, 1834) and Devisen una Mottos des spdtern Mittelaltcrs fib., 1850). His Gesammelte Schriften were published in 5 vols. at Berlin, 1852-53.
See Hassel, Joseph Maria von Radowitz (Berlin, 1905, &c.).
RAE, JOHN (1813-1893), Scottish Arctic explorer, was bom on the 30th of September 1813, in the Orkney Islands, which he left at an early age to study medicine at Edinburgh University, qualifying as a surgeon in 1833. He made a voyage in a professional capacity in one of the ships of the Hudson’s Bay Company, and entering the service of the company was resident surgeon for ten years at their station at Moose Factory, at the head of James Bay. In 1846 he made a boat-voyage to Repulse Bay, and having wintered there, in the following spring surveyed 700 miles of new coast-line connecting the earlier surveys of Ross and Parry. An account of this expedition, A Narrative of an Expedition to the Shores of the Arctic Sea in 1846 and 1847, was published by him in 1850. During a visit to London in 1848 he joined the expedition which was then preparing to go out under Sir John Richardson in search of Franklin; and in 1851, at the request of the Government and with a very slender outfit, he travelled some 5300 miles, much of it on foot, and explored and mapped 700 miles of new coast on the south side of Wollaston and Victoria Lands. For this achievement he received the Founder’s gold medal of the Royal Geographical Society. In 1853 he commanded another boat-expedition which was fitted out by the Hudson’s Bay Company, which connected the surveys of Ross with that of Deane and Simpson, and proved King William’s Land to be an island. It was on this journey that he obtained the first authentic news regarding the fate of Franklin, thereby winning the reward of £10,000 promised by the admiralty. He subsequently travelled across Iceland, and in Greenland and the northern parts of America, surveying routes for telegraph lines. Dr Rae attributed much to his success in Arctic travel to his adoption of the methods of the Eskimo, a people whom he had studied very closely. He was a keen sportsman, an accurate and scientific observer. He died at his house in London and was buried in the Orkney Islands.
RAE BARELI, a town and district of British India, in the Lucknow division of the United Provinces. The town is on the river Sai, 48 m. S.E. of Lucknow, on the Oudh & Rohilkhand railway. Pop. (1901) 15,880. It possesses many architectural features, chief of which is a strong and spacious fort erected in 1403, and constructed of bricks 2 ft. long by 1 ft. thick and i£ wide. Among other ancient buildings are the magnificent palace and tomb of nawab Jahan Khan, governor in the time of Shah Jahan, and four fine mosques. The town is an important centre of trade, and muslins and cotton cloth are woven.
The District of Rae Bareli has an area of 1748 sq. m. The general aspect of the district is slightly undulating, and the country is beautifully wooded. The soil is remarkably fertile, and the cultivation of a high class. The principal rivers of the district are the Ganges and the Sai: the former skirts it for 54 miles and is everywhere navigable for boats of 40 tons; the latter traverses it from N.W. to S.E. In 1901 the population was 1,033,761, showing a slight decrease during the decade. The principal crops are rice, pulse, wheat, barley, millet and poppy. Rae Bareli town is connected with Lucknow by a branch of the Oudh & Rohilkhand railway, which in 1898 was extended to Benares.
See Rae Bareli District Gazetteer, Allahabad, 1905.
RAEBURN, SIR HENRY (1756-1823), Scottish portrait-painter, was born at Stockbridge, a suburb of Edinburgh, on the 4th of March 1756, the son of a manufacturer of the city.
He was early left an orphan. Being placed in Heriot’s Hospital, he received there the elements of a sound education, and at the age of fifteen was apprenticed to a goldsmith in Edinburgh. Here he had some little opportunity for the practice of the humbler kinds of art, and various pieces of jewelry, mourning rings, and the like, adorned with minute drawings on ivory by his hand, are still extant. Soon he took to the production of carefully finished miniatures; and, meeting with success and patronage, he extended his practice to oil-painting, being all the while quite self-taught. The worthy goldsmith his master watched the progress of his pupil with interest, gave him every encouragement, and introduced him to David Martin, who had been the favourite assistant of Allan Ramsay junior, and was now the leading portrait-painter in Edinburgh. Raeburn received considerable assistance from Martin, and was especially aided by the loan of portraits to copy. Soon the young painter had gained sufficient skill to render it advisable that he should devote himself exclusively to painting. When he was in his twenty-second year he was asked to paint the portrait of a young lady whom he had previously observed and admired when he was sketching from nature in the fields. She was the daughter of Peter Edgar -of Bridgelands and widow of Count Leslie. The lady was speedily fascinated by the handsome and intellectual young artist, and in a month she became his wife, bringing him an ample fortune. This early insurance against the risks of his chosen profession, did not, however, diminish his anxiety to excel. The acquisition of wealth affected neither his enthusiasm nor his industry, but rather spurred bim to greater efforts to acquire a thorough knowledge of his craft. After the approved fashion of artists of the time, it was resolved that Raeburn should visit Italy, and he accordingly started with his wife. In London he was kindly received by Sir Joshua Reynolds, who gave him excellent advice as to his study in Rome, especially recommending to his attention the works of Michelangelo. He also offered him more substantial pecuniary aid, which was declined as unneeded; but Raeburn carried with him to Italy many valuable introductions from the president of the Academy. In Rome he made the acquaintance of Gavin Hamilton, of Batoni, and of Byers. For the advice of the last-named he used to acknowledge himself greatly indebted, particularly for the recommendation that “ he should never copy an object from memory, but, from the principal figure to the minutest accessory, have it placed before him.” After two years of study in Italy he returned to Edinburgh in 1787, where he began a most successful career as a portrait-painter. In that year he executed an admirable seated portrait of the second Lord President Dundas.
Of his earlier portraiture we have interesting examples in the bust-likeness of Mrs Johnstone of Baldovie and in the three-quarter-length of Dr James Hutton, works which, if they are somewhat timid and tentative in handling and wanting in the trenchant brush-work and assured mastery of subsequent productions, are full of delicacy and character. The portraits of John Clerk, Lord Eldin, and of Principal Hill of St Andrews belong to a somewhat later period. Raeburn was fortunate in the time in which he practised portraiture. Sir Walter Scott, Blair, Mackenzie, Woodbouselee, Robertson, Home, Ferguson, and Dugald Stewart were resident in Edinburgh, and they all, along with a host of others less celebrated, honoured the painter’s canvases. Of his fully matured manner we could have no finer examples than his own portrait and that of the Rev. Sir Henry Moncrieff Wellwood, the bust of Dr Wardrop of Torbane Hill, the two full-lengths of Adam Holland of Gask, the remarkable paintings of Lord Newton and Dr Alexander Adam in the National Gallery of Scotland, and that of William Macdonald of St Martin’s. It was commonly believed that Raeburn was less successful in his female than in his male portraits, but the exquisite full-length of his wife, the smaller likeness of Mrs R. Scott Moncrieff in the Scottish National Gallery, and that of Mrs Robert Bell, and others, are sufficient to prove that he could portray all the grace and beauty of the gentler sex.
Raeburn spent his life in Edinburgh, rarely visiting the metropolis, and then only for brief periods, thus preserving his own sturdy individuality, if he missed the opportunity of engrafting on it some of the fuller refinement and delicacy of the London portraitists. But though he, personally, may have lost some of the advantages which might presumably have resulted from closer association with the leaders of English art, and from contact with a wider public, Scottish art certainly gained much from his disinclination to leave his native land. He became the acknowledged chief of the school which was growing up in Scotland during the earlier years of the 19th century, and to his example and influence at a critical period is undoubtedly due much of the striking virility by which the work of his followers and immediate successors is distinguished. Evidences of this influence can be perceived even in the present day. His leisure was employed in athletic sports, in his garden, and in architectural and mechanical pursuits, and so varied were the interests that filled his life that his sitters used to say of him, “ You would never take him for a painter till he seizes the brush and palette.” Professional honours fell thick upon him. In 1812 he was elected president of the Society of Artists in Edinburgh, in 1814 associate, and in the following year full member of the Royal Academy. In 1822 he was knighted by George IV. and appointed His Majesty’s limner for Scotland. He died at Edinburgh on the 8th of July 1823.
In his own day the portraits of Raeburn were excellently and voluminously engraved, especially by the last members of the great school of English mezzotint. In 1876 a collection of over 300 of his works was brought together in the Royal Scottish Academy galleries; in the following year a series of twelve of his finest portraits was included in the winter exhibition of the Royal Academy, London; and a volume of photographs from his paintings was edited by Dr John Brown.
Raeburn possessed all the necessary requirements of a popular and successful portrait-painter. He had the power of producing a telling and forcible likeness; his productions are distinguished by breadth of effect, by admirable force of handling, by execution of the swiftest and most resolute sort. Wilkie has recorded that, while travelling in Spain and studying the works of Velazquez, the brush-work of that master reminded him constantly of the “ square touch ” of Raeburn. But the portraits of Velazquez are unsurpassable examples of tone as well as of handling, and it is in the former quality that Raeburn is often wanting, possibly because his inclinations led him to study effects of diffused light in preference to those which were strong in contrasts of light and shade. The colour of his portraits is sometimes crude and out of relation, inclining to the use of positive and definite local pigments, and too little perceptive of the changeful subtleties and modifications of atmospheric effect. His draperies frequently consist of little more than two colours —the local hue of the fabric and the black which, more or less graduated, expresses its shadows and modelling. In his flesh, too, he wants—in all but his very best productions—the delicate refinements of colouring which distinguish the works of the great English portrait-painters. His faces, with all their excellent truth of form and splendid vigour of handling, are often bard and^bricky in hue. Yet, after all allowances have been made for what deficiencies there may be in his work, his right to a place among the greater British masters cannot be contested. The masculine power, the vitality and the strength of characterization which are so apparent in his paintings entitle him to the serious attention of all lovers of fine achievement; and there is much to be learned from study of his methods. His sincerity and freedom from artificial graces of style can be specially recognized, and his frank directness is always attractive.
See Life of Sir Henry Raeburn, R.A., by his great-grandson William Raeburn Andrew, M.A. Oxon. (2nd ed.t 1894), which contains some of the latest information, together with a complete catalogue of the exhibition of 1876. There may also be consulted Works of Sir Henry Raeburn, R.A., with tributes by Dr John Brown and others, published by Andrew Elliot, Edinburgh; Tribute to the Memory of Raeburn by Dr Andrew Duncan, the Catalogues of the
loan exhibitions in Edinburgh of 1884 and 1901; and the Essay by W. E. Henley—Sir Henry Raeburn by William Ernest Henley (1890) with a finely produced series of plates, printed by T. & A. Constable for the now defunct Royal Association for Promotion of the Fine Arts in Scotland. But the leading work on the subject, and the most splendidly illustrated, is Sir Henry Raeburn by Sir Walter Armstrong, with an introduction by R. A. M. Stevenson and a biographical and descriptive catalogue by J. L. Caw (1901).
RAEDWALD (d. c. 620), king of the East Angles, was the son of King Tytili. He became a Christian during a stay in Kent, but on his return to East Anglia he sanctioned the worship both of the Christian and the heathen religions. Very little is known about his reign, which probably began soon after 600. For a time he recognized the overlordship of .¿Ethelberht, king of Kent, but he seems to have shaken off the Kentish yoke. He gained some superiority over the land south of the Humber with the exception of Kent and is counted among the Bretwaldas. Raedwald protected the fugitive Edwin, afterwards king of Northumbria, and in his interests he fought a sanguinary battle with the reigning Northumbrian king, iEthelfrith, near Retford in Nottinghamshire, where iEthelfrith was defeated and killed in April 617. He was followed as king of the East Angles by his son Eorpwald.
See Bede, Historiae ecclesiasticae, edited by C. Plummer (Oxford, 1896); and J. R. Green, The Making of England (1897-1899).
RAETIA (so always in inscriptions; in classical MSS. usually Rhaetia), in ancient geography, a province of the Roman Empire, bounded on the W. by the country of the Helvetii, on the E. by Noricum, on the N. by Vindelicia and on the S. by Cisalpine Gaul. It thus comprised the districts occupied in modern times by the Grisons, the greater part of Tirol, and part of Lombardy. The land was very mountainous, and the inhabitants, when not engaged in predatory expeditions, chiefly supported themselves by cattle-breeding and cutting timber, little attention being paid to agriculture. Some of the valleys, however, were rich and fertile, and produced com and wine, the latter considered equal to any in Italy. Augustus preferred Raetian wine to any other. Considerable trade was also carried on in pitch, honey, wax and cheese. Little is known of the origin or history of the Raetians, who arc described as one of the most powerful and warlike of the Alpine tribes. It is distinctly stated by Livy (v. 33) that they were of Etruscan origin (a view favoured by Niebuhr and Mommsen). A tradition reported by Justin (xx. 5) and Pliny {Nat. Hist. iii. 24, 133) affirmed that they were a portion of that people who had settled in the plains of the Po and were driven into the mountains by the invading Gauls, when they assumed the name of Raetians from their leader Raetus; a more probable derivation, however, is from Celtic rail, “ mountain land.” Even if their Etruscan origin be accepted, at the time when the land became known to the Romans, Celtic tribes were already in possession of it and had amalgamated so completely with the original inhabitants that, generally speaking, the Raetians of later times may be regarded as a Celtic people, although non-Celtic tribes (Lepontii, Euganei) were settled among them. The Raetians are first mentioned (but only incidentally) by Polybius (xxxiv. 10, 18), and little is heard of them till after the end of the Republic. There is little doubt, however, that they retained their independence until their subjugation in 15 b.c. by Tiberius and Drusus (cf. Horace, Odes, iv. 4 and 14). At first Raetia formed a distinct province, but towards the end of the 1st century a.d. Vindelicia was added to it; hence Tacitus {Germania, 41) could speak of Augusta Vindelicorum (Augsburg) as “ a colony of the province of Raetia.” The whole province (including Vindelicia) was at first under a military prefect, then under a procurator; it had no standing army quartered in it, but relied on its own native troops and militia for protection. In the reign of Marcus Aurelius it was governed by the commander of the Legio iii. Italica. Under Diocletian it formed part of the diocese of the vicarius Italiae, and was subdivided into Raetia prima and secunda (each under a praeses), the former corresponding to the old Raetia, the latter to Vindelicia. The boundary between them is not clearly defined, but may be
stated generally as a line drawn eastwards from the lacus Brigantinus (Lake of Constance) to the river Oenus (Inn). During the last years of the Western Empire, the land was in a desolate condition, but its occupation by the Ostrogoths in the time of Theodoric, who placed it under a dux, to some extent revived its prosperity. The chief towns of Raetia (excluding Vindclicia) were Tridcntum (Trent) and Curia (Coire or Chur). It was traversed by two great lines of Roman roads—one leading from Verona and Tridcntum across the Brenner (in which the name of the Brenni has survived) to Oenipons (Innsbruck) and thence to Augusta Vindelicorum; the other from Brigantium (Bregenz) on Lake Constance, by Coire and Chiavcnna to Como and Milan.
See P. C. Planta, Das alte Ratien (Berlin, 1872); T. Mommsen in Corpus Inscriptionum Lat inarum, iii. p. 706; J. Marquardt, Rdmische Staatsverwaltung, i. (2nd ed., 1881) p. 288; L. Steub, Ober die Urbewohner Rattens und ihren Zusammenhang mil den Etruskern (Munich, 1843); J. Jung, Rdmer und Romanen in den Donauldndern (Innsbruck, 1877); Smith’s Diet. of Grcek'and Roman Geography (1873); T. Mommsen, The Roman Provinces (Eng. trans., 1886), i. pp. 16, 161, 196; Mary B. Peaks, The General Civil and Military Administration of Noricum and Raetia (Chicago, 1907).
RAFF, JOSEPH JOACHIM (1822-1882), German composer and orchestral conductor, was born near Zurich, Switzerland, on the 27th of May 1822, and educated chiefly at Schwyz. Here, under the care of the Jesuit fathers, he soon became an excellent classical and mathematical scholar, but received scarcely any instruction in his favourite art of music, in which, nevertheless, he made extraordinary progress through sheer force of natural genius, developed by persevering study which no external obstacles could induce him to discontinue. So successful were his unaided efforts that, when in 1843 he sent some MSS. to Mendelssohn, that warm encourager of youthful talent felt justified in at once recommending him to Breitkopf & Hartel, the Leipzig publishers, who brought out a large selection of his early works. Soon after this he became acquainted with Liszt, who gave him much generous encouragement. He first became personally acquainted with Mendelssohn at Cologne in 1846, and gave up all his other engagements for the purpose of following him to Leipzig, but his intention was frustrated by the great composer’s death in 1847. After this disappointment he remained for some time at Cologne, where his attention was alternately devoted to composition and to the preparation of critiques for the periodical Cdcilia.    Thus far he was a self-
taught artist; but he felt the need of systematic instruction so deeply that, retiring for a time from public life, he entered at Stuttgart upon a long course of severe and uninterrupted study, and with so much success that in 1850 he appeared before the world in the character of an accomplished and highly cultivated musician. Raff now settled for a time in Weimar in order to be near Liszt. Hans von Billow had already brought him into notice by playing his Concertstiick for pianoforte and orchestra in public, and the favour with which this fine work was everywhere received encouraged him to attempt a greater one. During his stay in Stuttgart he had begun the composition of an opera entitled Konig Alfred, and had good hope of securing its performance at Dresden; but the political troubles with which Germany was then overwhelmed rendered its production in the Saxon capital impossible. At Weimar he was more fortunate. In due time Kdnig Alfred was produced there under Liszt's able direction at the court theatre with complete success; and later, in 1870, he wrote his second opera, Dame Kobold, for performance at the same theatre. A third opera, Samson, remained unstaged.
Raff lived at Weimar until 1856, when he obtained a large clientUe at Wiesbaden as a teacher of the pianoforte. In 1859 he married Doris Genast, an actress of high repute, and thenceforward devoted himself with renewed energy to the work of composition, displaying an inexhaustible fertility of invention tempered by great technical skill. He resided chiefly at Wiesbaden till 1877, when he was appointed director of the Hoch-Conservatorium at Frankfort, an office which he retained until his death on the 25th of June 1882.
More than 200 of Raff’s compositions have been published, including ten symphonies—undoubtedly his finest worjes—quartets, concertos, sonatas, songs, and examples of nearly every known variety of style; yet he never repeats himself. Notwithstanding his strong love for the romantic school, he is never guilty of extravagance, and, if in his minor works he is sometimes a little commonplace, he never descends to vulgarity. His symphonies Lenore and Im Walde are wonderful examples of musical painting.
RAFFAELLINO DEL GARBO (1466, or perhaps' 1476-1524), Florentine painter. His real name was Raffaello Capponi; Del Garbo was a nickname, bestowed upon him seemingly from the graceful nicety (garbo) of his earlier works. He has also been called Raffaello de Florentia, and Raffaello de Carolis. He was a pupil of Filippino Lippi, with whom he remained till 1490, if not later. He showed great facility in design, and excited hopes which the completed body of his works fell short of. He married and had a large family; embarrassments and a haphazard .manner of work ensued; and finally he lapsed into a very dejected and penurious condition. Three of his best tempera pictures are in the Berlin Gallery; one of the Madonna standing with her Infant between two musician-angels, is particularly attractive. We may also name the oil-painting of the “ Resurrection ” done for the church of Monte Oliveto, Florence, now in the academy of the same city, ordinarily reputed to be Raffaellino’s masterpiece; the ceiling of the Caraffa Chapel in the church of the Minerva, Rome; and a “ Coronation of the Virgin ” in the Louvre, which is a production of much merit, though with somewhat over-studied grace. Angelo Allori was his pupil.
RAFFET, DENIS AUGUSTE MARIE (1804-1860), French illustrator and lithographer, was born in Paris in 1804. At an early age he was apprenticed to a wood turner, but took up the study of art at evening classes. He became acquainted with Cabanel, who made him apply his skill to the decoration of china, and with Rudor, from whom he received instruction in lithography, in the practice of which he was to rise to fame. He then entered the £cole des Beaux-Arts, but returned definitely to lithography in 1830, when he produced on stone his famous designs of “ Lutzen,” “ Waterloo,” “ Le bal,” “ La revue ” and “ Les adieux de la gamison,” by which his reputation became immediately established. Raffet’s chief works were his lithographs of the Napoleonic campaigns, from Egypt to Waterloo, vigorous designs that are inspired by ardent patriotic enthusiasm. As an illustrator his activity was prodigious, the list of works illustrated by his crayon amounting to about forty-five, among which are Beranger’s poems, the History of the Revolution by Thiers, the History of Napoleon by de Norvins, the great Walter Scott by Defauconpret, the French Plutarch and Frederic B6rat’s Songs. He went to Rome in 1849, was present at the siege of Rome, which he made the subject of some lithographs, and followed the Italian campaign of 1859, of which he left a record in his Episodes de la campagne d'Italic de 1859. His portraits in pencil and water-colour are full of character. He died at Genoa in i860. In 1S93 a monument by Fr6miet was unveiled in the Jardin de lTnfante at the Louvre, Paris.
See Rajfet, by F. Lhomme (Paris, 1892).
RAFFLE, a special kind of lottery, in which a particular article is put up as the prize, the winner being drawn for by lot out of the number of those who have paid a fixed sum for admission to the drawing; the total amount realized by the sale of the tickets is supposed to approximate to the value of the object raffled for. The word appears in English as early as Chaucer {The Parson's Tale) where it is used in its original sense of a game of dice, the winner being that one who threw three dice all alike, or, next, the highest pair. The Fr. rafle, Med. Lat. raffia, w*as also used in the sense of a “ swT eeping-off ” of the stakes in a game; it has been connected with Ger. rajfen, to carry off.
RAFFLES, SIR THOMAS STAMFORD (1781-1826), English administrator, founder of Singapore, wT as bom on the 5th of July 1781, on board a merchantman commanded by his father, Benjamin Raffles, when off Port Morant, Jamaica. He received
his early education at a school at Hammersmith, but when only fourteen he' obtained temporary work in the secretary’s office of the East India Company. In 1800 he was appointed junior clerk on the establishment. In 1805 the East India Company decided to make Penang a regular presidency, and sent out a governor with a large staff, including Stamford Raffles, who was appointed assistant-secretary. On the eve of his departure he married Mrs Fancourt (Olivia Mariamne Devenish), widow of a surgeon on the Madras Establishment; she proved herself a helpful wife and counsellor to her husband in his rapid rise to fortune during the following nine years, dying prematurely in Java in November 1814. On his way out to Penang, Raffles began the study of the Malay language, and had mastered its grammar before his arrival. He continued his studies, finding a congenial fellow-worker and kindred spirit in John Leyden, who was invalided to Penang. In August 1806 Raffles was appointed acting secretary during the illness of that official, and in 1807 he received the full appointment. In the meantime he had acted as Malay interpreter, which entailed heavy and unappreciated work in addition to his regular duties. In 1808 his health gave way, and he was ordered for a change to Malacca. This proved a turning-point in his career. The East India Company had decided to abandon Malacca, and orders had been issued to dismantle it. Raffles perfected his study of Malay during his stay at this place, and learning from the Malays, with whom he mixed freely, that the abandonment of so important a position would be a grave fault, he drew up a report explaining the great importance of Malacca, and urging in the strongest manner its retention. This report was sent by the Penang authorities not only to London, but to the governor-general, the earl of Minto. The latter was so impressed by the report that he at once gave orders for suspending the evacuation of Malacca, and in 1809 the company decided to reverse its own decision. When the whole question was calmly considered in the light of subsequent events, many years later, the verdict was that Raffles had “ prevented the alienation of Malacca from the British Crown.” A direct correspondence with Lord Minto was established by the mediation of Leyden, who wrote to Raffles that the governor-general would be gratified in receiving communications direct from him. In June 1810 Raffles, of his own accord, proceeded to Calcutta, where Lord Minto gave him the kindest reception. Raffles remained four months in Calcutta, and gained the complete confidence of the governor-general. He brought Lord Minto round to his opinion that the conquest of the island of Java, then in the hands of the French, wr as an imperative necessity. To prepare the way for the expedition, Raffles was sent to Malacca as “ agent to the Governor-General with the Malay States.” He did his work well and thoroughly—even to the extent of discovering that the short and direct route to Batavia by the Caramata passage would be safe for the fleet. In August 1811 the expedition, accompanied by Lord Minto, and with Sir Samuel Auchmuty in command of the troops (11,000 in number, half English and half Indian), occupied Batavia without fighting. On the 25th of the same month a battle was fought at Comelis, a few miles south of Batavia, and resulted in a complete English victory. On the 18th of September the French commander, General Janssens, formally capitulated at Samarang, and the conquest of the island was completed. Lord Minto’s first act was to appoint Raffles lieutenant-governor of Java. From September 1811 until his departure for England in March 1816, Raffles ruled this large island with conspicuous success and the most gratifying ‘ results. To give only one fact in support of this statement, he increased the revenue eightfold at the same time that he abolished transit dues, reduced port dues to one-third and removed the fetters imposed on trade and intercourse with the Javanese by Dutch officialdom. In his own words, his administration aimed at being “ not only without fear, but without reproach.” He had a still greater ambition, which was, in his own words, “ to make Java the centre of an Eastern insular Empire,” and to establish the closest relations of friendship and alliance with the Japanese, whom he described as “ a highly polished people, considerably advanced in science, highly inquisitive and full of penetration.” It is interesting to note that when another great Englishman, Rajah Brooke, began his career in Sarawak in 1838, he announced: “ I go to carry Sir Stamford Raffles’s views in Java over the whole Archipelago.”
The policy of Raffles was based on the assumption that Java would be retained, but for reasons of European policy it was decided that it must be restored to Holland. After his return to England in 1816 he endeavoured to obtain a reconsideration of the question, but the decision taken was embodied in a treaty and beyond all possibility of modification. During his stay in England Raffles was knighted by the prince regent, published his History of Java (1817) and discussed with Sir Joseph Banks a project for the foundation in London of a zoological museum and garden on the model of the Jardin des Plantes at Paris. He also married his second wife, Sophia, daughter of T. W. Hull of Co. Down; he had many children by both marriages, but the only one to live beyond childhood was a daughter, who died fifteen years after her father’s death, and before she was twenty. He left, therefore, no direct descendants.
In November 1817 Sir Stamford quitted England on his return to the East, where the lieutenant-governorship of Fort Marlborough (Sumatra) had been kept in reserve for him. His administration of Sumatra, which lasted from March 1818 till December 1823, was characterized by the same breadth of view, consistency of purpose and energy in action that had made his government of Java remarkable. He had not, however, done with the Dutch, who, on their recovery of Java, endeavoured to establish a complete control over the Eastern archipelago, and to oust British trade. This design Sir Stamford set himself to baffle, and although he was more frequently censured than praised by his superiors for his efforts, he had already met with no inconsiderable success in minor matters when, by a stroke of genius and unrivalled statecraft, he stopped for all time the Dutch project of a mare clausum by the acquisition and founding of Singapore on the 29th of January 1819.
In 1824 Sir Stamford returned to England, but unfortunately the differences between him and the East India Company had resulted in an accumulation of disputes which placed a severe strain on his enfeebled constitution. The memorials and statements that he had to compile for his own vindication would fill a large volume, but at last the court passed (12th of April 1826) a formal decision in his favour. It did not omit, however, to· censure him for “ his precipitate and unauthorized emancipation of the Company’s slaves,” or after his death to make his widow pay £ro,ooo for various items, which included the expense of his mission to found Singapore ! Harassed as he was by these personal affairs, he still found time to carry out his original scheme with regard to a zoological society in London. He took the largest part in the creation of the existing society, and his fine Sumatra collection formed its endowment. He was unanimously elected its president at the first meeting, and by a remarkable unanimity of opinion on the part of those who helped in the work, he has been recognized as “ the Founder of the Zoological Society.” He was contemplating entering parliamentary life when his sudden death on his birthday, 1826, ended his brilliant career at the early age of forty-five. Sir Frederick Weld, lieutenant-governor at Singapore, when unveiling the statue of his predecessor at that place in 1887, crystallized the thoughts of his countrymen and anticipated the verdict of history in a single sentence: “ In Raffles, England had one of her greatest sons.”
See Lady Raffles, Memoir of Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles (1830); D. C. Boulger, Life of Sir Stamford Raffles (1897); Hugh Egerton, Sir Stamford Raffles (1899); J. L Buckley, Records of Singapore (1903).    (D. C. B.)
RAFN, KARL CHRISTIAN (1795-1864), Danish archaeologist, was born in Brahesborg, Fünen, on the 16th of January 1795, and died at Copenhagen on the 20th of October 1864. He is chiefly known in connexion with the controversy as to the question of the discovery of America by the Norsemen, his
views being contained in his chief work, Antiquiiatcs Americanae (Copenhagen, 1837). Sec Leif Ericsson.
RAFTER, a beam in a sloping roof to which is attached the framework for the slating, tiling or other external covering (see Roofs). The O.Eng. raefter is cognate with Icel. rastr, Dan. and Swed. rafte or raft, a beam, which, in the special sense of a floating collection of timbers, gives the English “ raft.” The ultimate base of these words is the root ro/-, to cover, seen in Gr. 6po<£os, roof.
RAGATZ, a famous watering-place in the Swiss canton of St Gall, situated on the left bank of the Rhine, and by rail 13J m. N. of Coire or 6i£ m. S.E. of Zurich. It stands at a height of 1696 ft., at the entrance to the magnificent gorge of the Tamina, about 3 m. up which by carriage road are the extraordinarily placed Baths of Pfafers (2247 ft.). Since 1840 the hot mineral waters of Pfafers are conducted in pipes to Ragatz, which is in a more pleasant position. Consequently Ragatz has much increased in importance since that date. In 1900 its native population was 1866, mainly German-speaking, while there were 1472 Romanists to 392 Protestants. The annual number of visitors is reckoned at 30,000. In the churchyard is the grave of the philosopher Schelling (d. here in 1854). About 2 m. by road above Ragatz are the r7th-century buildings (now the cantonal lunatic asylum) of the great Benedictine abbey of Pfafers (720-1838), to which all this region belonged till 1798; while midway between them and Ragatz are the ruins of the 14th-century castle of Wartenstcin, now accessible from Ragatz by means of a funicular railway. (W. A. B. C.)
RAGLAN, FITZROY JAMES HENRY SOMERSET, isx Baron (1788-1855), British field marshal, was the eighth and youngest son of Henry, 5th duke of Beaufort, by Elizabeth, daughter of Admiral the Hon. Edward Boscawen, and was bom on the 30th of September 1788. His elder brother, General Lord (Robert) Edward (Henry) Somerset (1776-1842), distinguished himself as the leader of the Household Cavalry brigade at Waterloo. Lord Fitzroy Somerset was educated at Westminster school, and entered the army in 1804. In 1807 he was attached to the Hon. Sir Arthur Paget’s embassy to Turkey, and the same year he was selected to serve on the staff of Sir Arthur Wellesley in the expedition to Copenhagen. In the following year he accompanied the same general in a like capacity to Portugal, and during the whole of the Peninsular War was at his right hand, first as aide-de-camp and then as military secretary. He was wounded at Busaco, became brevet-major after Fuentes de Ofioro, accompanied the stormers of the 52nd light infantry as a volunteer at Ciudad Rodrigo and specially distinguished himself at the storming of Badajoz, being the first to mount the breach, and afterwards showing great resolution and promptitude in securing one of the gates before the French could organize a fresh defence. During the short period of the Bourbon rule in 1814 and 1815 he was secretary to the English embassy at Paris. On the renewal of the war he again became aide-de-camp and military secretary to the duke of Wellington. About this time he married Emily Harriet, daughter of the 3rd earl of Momington, and Wellington’s niece. At Waterloo he was wounded in the right arm and had to undergo amputation, but he quickly learned to write with his left hand, and on the conclusion of the war resumed his duties as secretary to the embassy at Paris. From 1818 to 1820, and again in 1826-29, he sat in the House of Commons as member for Truro. In 1819 he was appointed secretary to the duke of Wellington as master-general of the ordnance, and from 1827 till the death of the duke in 1852 was military secretary to him as commander-in-chief. He was then appointed master-general of the ordnance, and was created Baron Raglan. In 1854 he was promoted general and appointed to the command of the English troops sent to the Crimea (see Crimean War) in co-operation with a strong French army under Marshal St Amaud and afterwards, up to May 1855, under Marshal Canrobert. Here the advantage of his training under the duke of Wellington was seen in the soundness of his generalship, and his diplomatic experience stood him in good stead in dealing with the generals and admirals, British, French and Turkish, who were associated with him. But the trying winter campaign in the Crimea also brought into prominence defects perhaps traceable to his long connexion with the formalities and uniform regulations of military offices in peace time. For the hardships and sufferings of the English soldiers in the terrible Crimean winter before Sevastopol, owing to failure in the commissariat, both as regards food and clothing, Lord Raglan and his staff were at the time severely censured by the press and the government; but, while Lord Raglan was possibly to blame in representing matters in a too sanguine light, it afterwards appeared that the chief neglect rested with the home authorities. But this hopefulness was a shining military quality in the midst of the despondency that settled upon the allied generals after their first failures, and at Balaklava and Inkermann he displayed the promptness and resolution of his youth. He was made a field marshal after Inkermann. During the trying winter of 1854-55, the suffering he was compelled to witness, the censures, in great part unjust, which he had to endure and all the manifold anxieties of the siege seriously undermined his health, and although he found a friend and ardent supporter in his new French colleague, General P£Iissier (q.v.), disappointment at the failure of the assault of the 18th of June 1855 finally broke his spirit, and very shortly afterwards, on the 28th of June 1855, he died of dysentery. His body was brought home and interred at Badminton.
His elder son having been killed at the battle of Ferozeshah (1845), the title descended to his younger son Richard Henry Fitzroy Somerset, 2nd Baron Raglan (18Γ7-1884); and subsequently to the latter’s son, George Fitzroy Henry Somerset, 3rd baron (b. 1857), under-secretary for war 1900-2, lieutenant-governor of the Isle of Man (1902) and a prominent militia officer.
RAGMAN ROLLS, the name given to the collection of instruments by which the nobility and gentry of Scotland were compelled to subscribe allegiance to Edward I. of England between the conference of Norham in May 1291 and the final award in favour of Baliol in November 1292, and again in 1296. Of the former of these records two copies were preserved in the chapter-house at Westminster (now in the Record Office, London), and it has been printed by Rymer (.Foedera, ii. 542). Another copy, preserved originally in the Tower of London, is now also in the Record Office. The latter record, containing the various acts of homage and fealty extorted by Edward from Baliol and others in the course of his progress through Scotland in the summer of 1296 and in August at the parliament of Berwick, was published by Prynne from the copy in the Tower and now in the Record Office. Both records were printed by the Banna-tyne Club in 1834. The derivation of the word “ ragman ’’has never been satisfactorily explained, but various guesses as to its meaning and a list of examples of its use for legal instruments both in England and Scotland will be found in the preface to the Bannatyne Club’s volume, and in Jamieson’s Scottish Dictionary, r.t>. “ Ragman.” The name “ ragman roll ” survives in the colloquial “ rigmarole,” a rambling, incoherent statement.
The name of “ Ragman ” has been sometimes confined to the record of 1296, of which an account is given in Calendar of Documents relating to Scotland preserved in the Public Record Office, London (1884), vol. ii.f Introd., p. xxiv; and as to the seals see p. lii and appendix.
RAG-STONE (probably equivalent to “ragged” stone), a name given by some architectural writers to wT ork done with stones which are quarried in thin pieces, such as the Horsham sandstone, Yorkshire stone, the slate stones, &c.; but this is more properly flag or slab wT ork. By rag-stone, near London, is meant an excellent material from the neighbourhood of Maidstone. It is a very hard limestone of bluish-grey colour, and peculiarly suited for medieval wOrk. It is often laid as uncoursed work, or random work (see Random), sometimes as random coursed work and sometimes as regular ashlar. The first method, however, is the more picturesque. (See Masonry.)
RAGUSA (Serbo-Croatian Dubrovnik), an episcopal city, and the centre of an administrative district in Dalmatia, Austria. Pop. (1900) of town and commune, 13,174, including a garrison of 1122. Its situation and its undisturbed atmosphere of antiquity combine to make Ragusa by far the most picturesque city on the Dalmatian coast. It occupies a ridge or promontory, which juts out into the Adriatic Sea, under the bare limestone mass of Monte Sergio. Its seaward fortifications rise directly from the water's edge, one fort, on the north mole, standing boldly on a tall rock almost isolated by a little inlet of the Adriatic. On the landward side a massive round tower dominates the city from a still higher eminence. Beyond the walls and the deep moat, especially on the northward side towards the port of Gravosa, are many pleasant villas, surrounded by gardens in which the aloe, palm and cypress are conspicuous among a number of flowering trees and shrubs. The island of Lacroma lies less than half a mile to the south. Between the seaward ridge and the mountain, the Stradone, or main street, runs along a narrow valley which, until the 13th century, was a marshy channel, dividing the Latin island of Ragusa from the Slavonic settlement of Dubrovnik, on the lower slopes af Monte Sergio. Parallel to the Stradone, on the north, is the Prijeki, a long, very narrow street, flanked by tall houses with averhanging balconies, and greatly resembling a Venetian alley. Despite the havoc wrought by earthquake in 1667, the whole city is rich in antiquarian interest. It possesses one church, of the Byzantine period, which is mentioned in 13th-century documents as even then of great age. Two stately convents of the 14th century stand at the ends of the city; for the Franciscans were set to guard the western gate, or Porta Pile, against the hostile Slavs, while the Dominicans kept the eastern gate, or Porta Piece. The Franciscan cloister is a fine specimen of late Romanesque; that of the Dominicans is hardly inferior, though of later date. The Dominican church is approached by a sloping flagged lane, having on one side a beautifully ornamented balustrade of the 18th century. Another 14th-century building is the Sponza, or custom-house, from which the state derived its principal revenue. A fountain md a curious clock-tower in the Piazza, which terminates the Stradone towards the east, were erected by Onofrio, the architect and engineer whose aqueduct, built about 1440, supplied Ragusa with water from the neighbouring hills. The Rector's Palace, another noteworthy example of late Romanesque, rombined with Venetian Gothic, is one of the masterpieces of Dalmatian architecture. It has a fine façade of six arches, md the capitals of the supporting pillars are very curiously :arved. Especially interesting is the figure of Aesculapius, tvhose traditional birthplace was Epidaurum or Epidaurus, the parent city of Ragusa. The cathedral dates from the 18th century; and to the same period belongs another church, rebuilt after a fire, but originally erected as a votive offering ifter the pestilence of 1348, and dedicated to San Biagio (St B laize), the patron of Ragusa, whose name and effigy continually appear on coins and buildings. Among many fine pieces >f jewellers' work preserved in the ecclesiastical treasuries may be mentioned the silver statuette of San Biagio, and the reliquary which contains his skull—a 17th-century casket in filigree ind enamels with Byzantine medallions of the nth or 12th :entury.
The harbour of Ragusa, once one of the chief ports of southern Europe, is too small for modern needs; but Gravosa [Gruz)j a village at the mouth of the river Ombla, on the north, is a steamship station and communicates by rail with Herzegovina and the Bocche di Cattaro. Ragusa has thus some transit trade with the interior. Its industries include the manufacture of liqueurs, oil, silk and leather; but Malmsey, its famous wine, could no longer be produced after the vine-lisease of 1852.
History.—The name Ragusa is of uncertain origin. Constantine Porphyrogenitus, in the 10th century, connects its îarly form, Lausa, with XaO, a “ precipice." Jirecek dissents from this view, and from the common opinion that Dubrovnik is derived from the Slavonic dubrava, “ woody." The city first -became prominent during the 7th century. In 639 and 656 the flourishing Latin communities of.Salona and Epidaurum were destroyed by the Avars, and the island rock of Ragusa was colonized by the survivors. Tradition identifies Epidaurum, whence the majority came, with the neighbouring village of Ragusa vecchia; but some historians, including Gelcich, place it on the shores of the Bocche di Cattaro. Both sites show signs of Roman occupation. A colony of Slavs soon joined the Latin settlers at Ragusa, and thus, from an early date, the city formed a link between two great civilizations (see Vlachs). In the 9th century it is said to have repulsed the Saracens; in the 10th it defended itself against the Naren-tine pirates, and Simeon, tsar of the Bulgarians. Some writers consider that it submitted to Venice in 998, with the rest of Dalmatia; but this is generally denied by the native historians. During the nth century an enforced alliance with the Normans drew the republic into war with Venice and Byzantium; and in the 12th century it was attacked by the Bosnians and Serbs. From 1205 to 1358 it acknowledged Venetian suzerainty; its chief magistrate was the Venetian count; and its archbishops, who wielded much political influence, were often Venetian nominees. The constitution took shape during this period, and the first statute-book wT as published in 1272. Only patricians could hold office in the senate, grand council and lesser council, three bodies which shared the work of government with the count, or, after 1358, the rector. The ancient popular assembly was almost obsolete before the 14th century. Ragusan policy was usually peaceful, and disputes with other nations were frequently arranged by a system of arbitration called stanicum. To refugees of all nations, even to those who had been its own bitter foes, the city afforded asylum; and by means of treaty and tribute it worked its way to a position of mercantile power which Europe could hardly parallel. It was conveniently situated at the seaward end of a great trade route, which bifurcated at Plevlje to Byzantium and the Danube. A compact with the Turks, made in 1370 and renewed in the next century, saved Ragusa from the fate of its more powerful neighbours, Servia and Byzantium, besides enabling the Ragusan caravans to penetrate into Hungary, Croatia, Bosnia, Servia, Bulgaria and Rumania. From 1358 to 1526 the republic was a vassal state of Hungary, and no longer controlled by its greatest commercial rival. It acquired, among other territories, the important ship-building and salt-producing centre Stagno Grande (Ston Veliki), on the promontory of Sabbioncello; and from 1413 to 1416 it held the islands of Curzola, Brazza and Lesina by lease from Hungary. Meanwhile, Ragusan vessels were known not only in Italy, Sicily, Spain, Greece, the Levant and Egypt, but in the more northern parts of Europe. The English language retains in the word “ argosy " a reminiscence of the carracks of Ragusa, long known to Englishmen as Argouse, Argusa or A ragosa. In the 16th century the Ragusan merchants went even to India and America, but they were unable to compete with their rivals from western Europe. Many of their seamen took service with Spain; and twelve of their finest ships were lost with the Invincible Armada in 1588. After 1526 the downfall of Hungary left Ragusa free; and about this time a great development of art and literature, begun in the 15 th century and continued into the 17th, earned for the city its title of the “ South Slavonic Athens.” (See Servia, Literature.) The earthquake of 1667, which had been preceded by lesser shocks in 1520, 1521, 1536 and 1639, destroyed a considerable portion of the city, and killed about one-fifth of the inhabitants. Only during the Napoleonic wars did the repuhlic regain its prosperity. From 1800 to 1805 it was the sole Mediterranean state remaining neutral, and thus it secured a very large share of the carrying trade. In 1805, however, it was seized by the French; Napoleon deprived it of independence; and in 1814 it was annexed to Austria.
See L. Villari, The Republic of Ragusa (London, 1904), for a thorough description and history, with a full bibliography. T. G.
Jackson, Dalmatia, the Quarnero and Istria (Oxford, 1887), gives the best account of Ragusan architecture and antiquities. The most accurate native history is G. Gelcich (Gel£i£), Dello Sviluppo civile di Ragusa (Ragusa, 1884). The course of Ragusan trade may be studied in C J. Jireiek, Die Ilandelsstrassen und Bcrgverkcvon Serbien, &e. (Prague, 1879); and Heyd, Histoire dit commerce du Lbant an moyen dgc (Leipzig, 1885).
RAGUSA, a town of Sicily in the province of Syracuse, 70 m. S.W. of Syracuse by rail and 32 m. direct. It consists of an upper (Ragusa Superiore) and a lower town (Ragusa Inferiore), each of which forms a separate commune. Pop. (1906) of the former, 35,529; of the latter, S66. It has some churches with fine Gothic architecture, and is commercially of some importance, a stone impregnated with bitumen being quarried and prepared for use for paving slabs by being exposed to the action of fire. On the hill occupied by the castle of Ragusa Inferiore stood the ancient Hybla Heraea, a Sicel town, under the walls of which Hippocrates of Gela fell in 491 b.c. A Greek settlement seems to have arisen in the neighbourhood close to the present railway station, about the middle of the 6th century B.c., and to have disappeared at the end of the 5th. Orsi points out that the remains (cuttings in the rock and a part of the castle wall), attributed by Freeman (Hislory of Sicily, i. 163) to Sicel times, are in reality post-Roman.
See Orsi in Nolizie degli scavi (1S99), 402-418.
RAHWAY, a city of Union county, New Jersey, U.S.A., in the north-eastern part of the state, on the Rahway river and about 20 m. S.W. of New York City. Pop. (1890) 7105; (1900) 7935» of whom 1345 were foreign-born; (1910 U.S. census) 9337. Rahway is served by the main line of the Pennsylvania railroad, and is connected with neighbouring cities by electric lines. It has wide streets and attractive parks, and is, to some extent, a residential suburb of New York and other neighbouring cities. It has a public library (1864), with upwards of 17,000 volumes, and about i£ m. distant is the New Jersey Reformatory (1903), to which prisoners between the ages of sixteen and thirty may be sentenced instead of to the State Prison. There are various manufactures. Rahway was first settled in 1720, and was named in honour of the Indian chief Rahwack, whose tribe owned the site and the surrounding territory; it was chartered as a city in 1858. For many years Rahway was popularly known as Spanktown, and in January 1777, during the War of Independence, a skirmish, known as the battle of Spanktown, was fought here.
RAICHUR. a town of India, in the state of Hyderabad, at the junction of the Madras and Great Indian Peninsula railways, 351 ni. N.E. from Madras. Pop. (1901) 22,165. It gives its name to the doab, or tract between the rivers Kistna and Tunga-bhadra, which was the scene of much fighting between Mahom-medans and Hindus as debatable land during the 16th century. It contains a well-preserved fort and two old mosques. It is a thriving centre of trade, with several cotton-presses.
RAID, in the language of international law, an invasion by armed forces, unauthorized and unrecognized by any state, of the territory of a state which is at peace. Piracy is the attack on the high sea of any vessel by an armed vessel, not authorized or recognized by any state, for the purpose of robbery. A raid for the purpose of carrying off movable property and converting it' to the use of the captors would still be distinguishable from piracy, because it was committed on territory subject to an exclusive territorial jurisdiction. Where the attack or invasion by an armed ship not authorized or recognized by any state is not for the purpose of capturing property, it is properly speaking a raid and not piracy. An attack though in time of peace, by armed forces authorized or recognized by a regular government, is not a raid but an act of war, there being a government responsible for the act committed. The fact of any act being authorized, not by the supreme government, but by a chartered company, or by its governing officer, makes no difference in international law, the directorate of a chartered company exercising its powers by delegation of the state under which it holds its charter.
The acts of its armed forces cannot in reason be distinguished from the acts of the armed forces of the state government. Thus compensation is just as much due for them as for the deliberate acts of the state itself, and any claim of an injured state can only be preferred against the state to which the company belongs. Invasion by the regular forces of a state, or by the regular forces of its delegated authority, being an act of war, the laws of war apply to it, and, on capture, such forces, or any members or part of such forces, are prisoners of war. On the other hand, the state whose subordinate authorities commit acts of war against a friendly state has the option of following them up as a commencement of hostilities, or of giving satisfactory compensation to the invaded state. Where the invasion is not by forces subject to the orders of a state, the invaded state has the right to apply its own laws for the repression of disturbances in its territory. Thus, in the so-called Jameson Raid, the Transvaal government had no right to treat Dr Jameson, an officer holding his powers under the British government, and his subordinates, as outlaws, and it was probably so advised, and the British government owed proper compensation for an act for the consequences of which, under international law, it was responsible.
British domestic law punishes raiding under the Foreign Enlistment Act 1870 (33 & 34 Viet. c. 90) ,@@1 Section π of this act provides as follows.—“If any person within the limits of His Majesty’s dominions, and without the licence of His Majesty, prepares or fits out any naval or military expedition to proceed against the dominions of any friendly state, the following consequences shall ensue: (1) Every person engaged in such preparation or fitting out, or assisting therein, or employed in any capacity in such expedition, shall be guilty of an offence against this act, and shall be punishable by fine and imprisonment or either of such punishments, at the discretion of the Court before which the offender is convicted; and imprisonment, if awarded, may be either with or without hard labour. (2) All ships and their equipments, and all arms and munitions of war, used in or forming part of such expedition, shall be forfeited by His Majesty.” Section 12 provides for the punishment of accessaries as principal offenders, and section 13 limits the term of imprisonment for any offence under the act to two years. In the Sandoval case (1886),@@2 in which Colonel Sandoval, who was not a British subject, bought guns and ammunition and shipped them to Antwerp, where they were put on board a vessel, which afterwards made an attack on Venezuela, it was held that the offence of fitting out and preparing an expedition within British territory against a friendly state, under this section, is sufficiently constituted by the purchase of guns and ammunition in the British Empire, and their shipment for the purpose of being put on board a ship in a foreign port, with knowledge of the purchaser and shipper that they are to be used in a hostile demonstration against such state, though the shipper takes no part in any overt act of war, and the ship is not fully equipped for the expedition within any British port. Under the same section, Dr Jameson, administrator of the British South Africa Company, and his confederates were tried before the Central Criminal Court and sentenced to different terms of imprisonment.@@ The offence committed under a British act is, of course, that of preparing and fitting out an expedition on British territory. Any acts subsequently committed by any British expedition on foreign soil are beyond the operation of domestic legislation, and fall to be dealt with by the domestic legislation of the state within which they occur, or by diplomacy, as the case may be.    (T. Ba.)
RAIFFEISEN, FRIEDRICH WILHELM (181S-1S8S), founder of the German system of agricultural co-operative banks, was
@@@1 The preamble to the Foreign Enlistment Act 1870 stated that its object was “to make provision for the regulation of the conduct of Her Majesty’s subjects during the existence of hostilities between foreign states with which Her Majesty is at peace.” This preamble was repealed by the Statutes Law Revision (No. 2) Act 1893.
@@@*/?. v. Sandoval, 1886, 56 Law Times, 526.
@@@* R. v. Jemeson, 1896, 2 Q.B., 425.
born at Hamm on the Sieg on the 30th of March 1818, being the son of Gottfried Raiffeisen, burgomaster of that place. Educated privately, he entered the artillery in Cologne, but defective eyesight compelled him to leave the army. He then entered the public service at Coblenz, and in 1845 was appointed burgomaster of Weyerbusch. Here he was so successful that in 1848 he was transferred in a like capacity to Flammersfeld, and in 1852 to Heddersdorf. Raiffeisen devoted himself to the improvement of the social condition of the cultivators of the soil, and did good work in the planning of public roads and in other ways. The distress of the years 1846-47, the causes of which he discerned in the slight amount of credit obtainable by the small landed proprietors, led him to seek for a remedy in co-operation, and at Heddersdorf and at Weyerbusch he founded the first agricultural co-operative loan banks (Darleknskassenverein). These banks were called after him, and their foundation resulted in a widespread system of land banks, supported by the government. In 1865 the state of his health compelled him to retire, but he continued to take an interest in the movement he had originated, and in 1878 he founded at Neuwied a periodical, Das landwirtschaftliche Genossen-schaftsblatt. He died on the 1 ith of March 1888.
Among Raiffeisen's writings are, Die Darleknskassenvereine als Mittel zur Abhilfe (Neuwied, 1866; new ed., 1887^; Anleitung zur Geschäfts- und Buchführung ländlichen Spar- und Darlehnskassenvereine (new ed., 1896); and Kurze Anleitung zur Gründung von Darlehnskassenvereinen (new ed., 1893). See A. Wattig, Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen (1890); H. W. Wolff, People's Banks. A Record of Social and Economic Success (1895); and Fassbender, Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen (Berlin, 1902).
RAIGARH, a feudatory state of India, in the Chattisgarh division of the Central Provinces. Area, i486 sq. m. Pop. (1901) 174,929, showing an increase of 4% in the decade. Estimated revenue, £10,000; tribute, £260. The chief belongs to the old Gond royal family. The state is traversed by the Bengal-Nagpur railway, with a station at Raigarh town, 363 m. from Calcutta. Rice is the chief crop; iron ore is worked by indigenous methods, and coal is known to exist. Fine tussore silk is produced at Raigarh town (pop. 6764). Raigarh is also the name of a hill fortress in Kolaba district, Bombay, which Sivaji made his chief place of residence. Here he wT as crowned in 1674.
RAIKES, ROBERT (1735-1811), English educationist, the founder of Sunday schools, was the son of Robert Raikes, a printer in Gloucester and proprietor of the Gloucester Journal, and was born on the 14th of September 1735. On the death of his father in 1757 he succeeded him in the business, which he continued to conduct till 1802. Along with some others he started a Sunday school at Gloucester in 1780, and on his giving publicity to the enterprise in the columns of his journal the notice was copied into the London papers and awakened considerable attention. For nearly thirty years he continued actively engaged in the promotion of his undertaking, and he lived to witness its wide extension throughout England. He died on the 5th of April 1811. His statue stands on the Thames Embankment.
Among various accounts of the life and work of Raikes mention may be made of that by P. M. Eastman, 1880.
RAIL. (1) (From Fr. Râle, cf. Ger. Ralle, Low Lat. Rallus, of unknown origin), originally the English name of two birds, distinguished from one another by a prefix as land-rail and water-rail, but latterly applied in a much wider sense to all the species which are included in the family Rallidae.
The land-rail, also very commonly known as the corncrake, and sometimes as the daker-hen, is the Rallus crex of Linnaeus and Crex pratensis of recent authors. Its monotonous grating cry has given it its common name in several languages. With comparatively few individual exceptions, the land-rail is essentially migratory. It is the Ortygometra of classical authors—supposed by them to lead the quail (q.v.) on its voyages—and in the course of its wanderings has now been known to reach the coast of Greenland, and several times that of North America, to say nothing of Bermuda, in every instance we may believe as a straggler from Europe or Barbary. The land-rail looks about as big as a partridge, but on examination its appearance is found to be very deceptive, and it will hardly ever weigh more than half as much. The plumage above is of a tawny brown, the feathers being longitudinally streaked with blackish brown; beneath it is of a yellowish white; but the flanks are of a light chestnut barred with white. The species is very locally distributed, and in a way for which there is at present no accounting. In some dry upland and corngrowing districts it is plentiful; in others, of apparently the same character, it but rarely occurs; and the same may be said in regard to low-lying marshy meadows, in most of which it is in season always to be heard, while in others having a close resemblance to them it is never met with. The nest is on the ground, generally in long grass, and therein from nine to eleven eggs are commonly laid. These are of a cream-colour, spotted and blotched with light red and grey. The young when hatched are thickly clothed with black down, as is the case in nearly all species of the family.
The water-rail, locally known as the skiddy or billcock, is the Rallus aquations of ornithology, and seems to be less abundant than the preceding, though that is in some measure due to its frequenting places into which from their swampy nature men do not often intrude. ■ Having a general resemblance to the land-rail,@@1 it can be in a moment distinguished by its partly red and much longer bill, and the darker coloration of its plumage—the upper parts being of an olive brown with black streaks, the breast and belly of a sooty grey, and the flanks dull black barred with white. Its geographical distribution is very wide, extending from Iceland (where it is said to preserve its existence during winter by resorting to the hot springs) to China; and though it inhabits Northern India, Lower Egypt and Barbary, it seems not to pass beyond the tropical line. It never affects upland districts as does the landrail, but always haunts wet marshes or the close vicinity of water. Its love-note is a loud and harsh cry, not continually repeated as is that of the land-rail, but uttered at considerable intervals and so suddenly as to have been termed “ explosive.” Besides this, which is peculiar to the cock-bird, it has a croaking call that is frog-like. The eggs resemble those of the preceding, but are more brightly and delicately tinted.
The various species of rails, whether allied to the former or latter of those just mentioned, are far too numerous to be here noticed. Hardly any part of the world is without a representative of the genera Crex or Rallus, and every considerable country has one or perhaps more of each—though it has been the habit of systematists to refer them to many other genera, the characters of which are with difficulty found.^ Thus in Europe alone three other species allied to Crex pratensis occur more or less abundantly; but one of them, the spotted rail or crake, has been made the type of a so-called genus Porzana, and the other two, little birds not much bigger than larks, are considered to form a genus Zapornia. The first of these, which used not to be uncommon in the eastern part of England, has a very near representative in the Carolina rail or sora, Crex Carolina, of North America, often there miscalled the ortolan, just as its European .analogue, C. porzana, is in England often termed the dotterel. But, passing over these as well as some belonging to genera that can be much better defined, and other still more interesting forms of the family, as Aphanapteryx, coot ($.r.), moor-hen {q.v.) and ocydrome {q.v.), a few words must be said of the more distant group formed by the South American Heliornis, and the African and Indian Podica, comprising four or five species, to which the name " Finfoots ” has been applied— from the lobes or flaps of skin that fringe their toes. Though for a long while placed among the Podicipedidae (see Grebe), their osteology no less than their habits appear to indicate their alliance with the rails, and they are placed as a separate family, Heliorni-thidae of the order Gruiformes, to which the rails belong; but they seem to show the extreme modification of that type in adaptation to aquatic life. The curious genus Mesites of Madagascar, whose systematic place has been so long in doubt, has been referred by A. Milne-Ed wards {Ann. Sc. Naturelle, ser. 6, vii. art. 2) to the neighbourhood of the rails, but is now associated as a sub-order Mesitae with Galliform birds. On the other hand the jacanas or Parridae, which from their long toes were once thought to belong
@@@1 Formerly it seems to have been a popular belief in England that the land-rail in autumn transformed itself into a water-rail, resuming its own characters in spring.
to the rails, are now generally admitted to be Limicoline, while the genus Aramus—the courlan or limpkin of the southern United States—still occupies a very undetermined position.    (A. N.)
(2) (Through O.Fr. rexile, from Lat. regula, a rule; the Du. and Swed. regel, Ger. Riegelt bolt or bar, arc probably also from the Latin), a horizontal bar of wood, metal or other material resting on, or fixed in, upright posts to form a fence, or as a support for hanging things on, to form the u hand-rail ” of a stair, &c.; on a ship the upper part of the bulwarks, e.g. the “ taffrail,” round the stem bulwarks; especially, one of the pair of iron or steel bars on which a train or tram runs (see Railways).
There are two other words “ rail (a) an obsolete word (O.E. hrcegel), for a garment, often in the compound “ night-rail and (6) a verb, to abuse, use angry language, from Fr. railler, possibly from the same root as Lat. radere, to scrape. The word is also seen in 11 rally,” to banter, tease (distinguish, however, 11 rally,” to bring together, especially of defeated troops (from Fr. rallier; re, again, and allicr, ally, Lat. alligarc)).
RAILWAYS. Railways had their origin in the tramways (<7.t>.) or wagon-ways which at least as early as the middle of the 16th century were used in the mineral districts of England round Newcastle for the conveyance of coal from the pits to the river Tyne for shipment. It may be supposed that originally the public roads, when worn by the cartage of the coal, were repaired by laying planks of timber at the bottom of the ruts, and that then the planks were laid on the surface of special roads or ways@@1 formed between the collieries and the river. “ The manner of the carriage/* says Lord Keeper North in 1676, “ is by laying rails of timber . . . exactly straight and parallel, and bulky carts are made with four rowlets fitting these rails, whereby the carriage is so easy that one horse will draw down four or five chaldrons of coals ” (from 10·6 to 13-2 tons). The planks were of wood, often beech, a few inches wide, and were fastened down, end to end, on logs of wood, or “ sleepers/* placed crosswise at intervals of two or three feet. In time it became a common practice to cover them with a thin sheathing or plating of iron, in order to add to their life; this expedient caused more wear on the wooden rollers of the wagons, and, apparently towards the middle of the 18th century, led to the introduction of iron wheels, the use of which is recorded on a wooden railway near Bath in 1734. But the iron sheathing was not strong enough to resist buckling under the passage of the loaded wagons, and to remedy this defect the plan was tried of making the rails wholly of iron. In 1767 the Colebrookdale Iron Works cast a batch of iron rails or plates, each 3 ft. long and 4 in. broad, having at the inner side an upright ledge or flange, 3 in. high at the centre and tapering to a height of 2\ in. at the ends, for the purpose of keeping the flat wheels on the track. Subsequently, to increase the strength, a similar flange was added below the rail. Wooden sleepers continued to be used, the rails being secured by spikes passing through the extremities, but about 1793 stone blocks also began to be employed—an innovation associated with the name of Benjamin Outram, who, however, apparently was not actually the first to make it. This type of rail (fig. 1) was known as the plate-rail, tramway-plate or barrow-way-plate—names which are preserved in the modern term “ platelayer ” applied to the men who lay and maintain the permanent way of a railway.
Another form of rail, distinguished as the edge-rail, was first used on a line which was opened between Loughborough and Nanpantan in 1789. This line was originally designed as a “ plateway ” on the Outram system, but objections were raised to rails with upstanding ledges or flanges being laid on the turnpike road which was crossed at Loughborough on the level. In other cases this difficulty was overcome by paving or “ cause-the road up to the level of the top of the flanges,· but
@@@1 " Another thing that is remarkable is their way-leaves; for, when men have pieces of ground between the colliery and the river, they sell leave to lead coals over their ground ” (Roger North).
on this occasion William Jessop, of the Butterley Iron Works, near Derby, proposed to get over it by laying down two plates of iron, perfectly flat and level with the road but each having on its outside a groove } in. wide and f in. deep to control extra guiding wheels which were to be of somewhat larger diameter than the bearing wheels and to be affixed to them. The rest of the line was laid with what were substantially plate-rails placed on their edge instead of flat. These were cast in 3 ft. lengths, of a double-flanged section, and for the sake of strength they were “ fish-bellied ” or deeper in the middle than at the ends. At one end of each rail the flange spread out to form a foot which rested on a cross sleeper, being secured to the latter by a spike passing through a central hole, and above this foot the rail was so shaped as to form a socket into which was fitted the end of the next rail. Each length was thus fastened to a sleeper at one end, while at the other it was socketed into the end of its fellow. This method, however, was not found satisfactory: the projecting feet wefe liable to be broken off, and in 1799 or 1800 Jessop abandoned them, using instead separate cast-iron sockets or chairs, which were fastened to the sleepers and in which the rails were supported in an upright position. In the first instance he proposed to place the guiding wheels outside the bearing wheels, and the Nanpantan line was laid on this plan with a width of 5 ft. between the guide wheels; but before it was opened he decided not only to cast the guiding wheels and bearing wheels in one piece but also to put the former inside the rails, arguing that with this arrangement the edge-rails themselves would keep the wheels in position on the axles, whereas with that first contemplated fastenings would have heen required for them (fig. 2)* Jessop thus produced what was virtually the flanged wheel of to-day, having the flanges inside the rails, and further, it is said, established what has become the standard gauge of the world, 4 ft. 8£ in., or 5 ft. minus the width of two of his rails.
These two systems of constructing railways— the plate-rail and the edge-rail—continued to exist side by side until well on in the 19th century.
In most parts of England the plate-rail was preferred, and it was used on the Surrey iron railway, from Wandsworth to Croydon, which, sanctioned by parliament in 1801, was finished in 1803, and was the first railway available to the public on payment of tolls, previous lines having all been private and reserved exclusively for the use of their owners.
In South Wales again, where in 1811 the railways in connexion with canals, collieries and iron and copper works had a total length of nearly 150 miles, the plate-way was almost universal. But in the north of England and in Scotland the edge-rail was held in greater favour, and by the third decade of the century its superiority was generally established. The manufacture of the rails themselves was gradually improved. By making them in longer lengths a reduction was effected in the number of joints— always the weakest part of the fine; and another advance consisted in the substitution of wrought iron for cast iron, though that material did not gain wide adoption until after the patent for an improved method of rolling rails granted in 1820 to John Birkinshaw, of the Bedlington Ironworks, Durham. His rails were wedge-shaped in section, much wider at the top than at the bottom, with the intermediate portion or web thinner still, and he recommended that they should be made 18 ft. long, even suggesting that several of them might be welded together end to end to form considerable lengths. They were supported on sleepers by chairs at intervals of 3 ft., and were fish-bellied between the points of support. As used by George Stephenson on the Stockton & Darlington and Whits table & Canterbury lines they weighed 28 lb per yard. On the Liverpool & Manchester railway they were usually 12 ft. or 15 ft. long and weighed 35 lb to the yard, and they were fastened by iron wedges to chairs weighing 15 or 17 lb each. The chairs were
in turn fixed to the sleepers by two iron spikes, half-round wooden cross sleepers being employed on embankments and stone blocks 20 in. square by 10 in. deep in cuttings. The fish-bellied rails, however, were found to break near the chairs, and from 1834 they began to be replaced with parallel rails weighing 50 lb to the yard.
The next important development in rail design originated in America, which, for the few lines that had been laid up to 1830, remained content with wooden bars faced with iron. In that year Robert Livingston Stevens (1787-1856), devised for the Camden & Amboy railway a rail similar as to its top to those in use in England, but having a flat base or foot by which it was secured to the sleepers by hook-headed spikes, without chairs (fig· 3); he had to get the first lot of these rails, which were 15 ft. long and weighed 36 lb to the yard, manufactured in England, since there were then no mills in America able to roll them. This type, which is often known as the Vignoles rail, after Charles'Blacker Vignoles (1793-1875), who re-invented it in England in 1836, is in general use in America and on the continent of Europe. The bridge-rail (fig. 4)—so called because it was first laid on bridges—was supported on continuous longitudinal sleepers and held down by bolts passing through the flanges, and was employed by I. K. Brunei on the Great Western railway, where, however, it was abandoned after the line was converted from broad to standard gauge in 1892. In the double-headed rail (fig. 5), originated by Joseph Locke in 1837, and first laid on the Grand Junction railway, the two tables were equal. This rail was more easily rolled than others, and, being reversible, was in fact two rails in one. But as it was laid in cast iron chairs the lower table was exposed to damage under the hammering of the traffic, and thus was liable to be rendered useless as a running surface. In consequence the bull-headed rail (fig. 6) was evolved, in which the lower table was made of smaller size and was intended merely as a support, not as a surface to be used by the wheels. There was a waste of metal in these early rails owing to the excessive thickness of the vertical web, and subsequent improvements have consisted in adjusting the dimensions so as to combine strength with economy of metal, as well as in the substitution of steel for wrought iron (after the introduction of the Bessemer process) and in minute attention to the composition of the steel employed.
It was found, naturally, that the rails would not rest in their chairs at the joints, but were loosened and bruised at the ends by the blows of the traffic. The fish-joint was therefore devised in 1847 by W. Bridges Adams, the intention being by “ fishing ” the joints to convert the rails into continuous beams. In the original design two chairs were placed, one under each rail, a few inches apart, as in fig. 7. The joint was thus suspended between the two chairs, and two keys of iron, called “ fishes,” fitting the side channels of the rails, were driven in on each side between the chairs and the rails. In subsequent modifications the fishes were, as they continue to be, bolted to and through the rails, the sleepers being placed rather further apart and the joint being generally suspended between them.
The iron tramway or railway had been known for half a
century and had come into considerable use in connexion with collieries and quarries before it was realized that for the carriage of general merchandise it might prove a serious competitor to the canals, of which a large mileage had been constructed in Great Britain during that period. In the article on “Railways” in the Supplement to the Encyclopaedia Britannica, published in 1824, it is said: “It will appear that this species of inland carriage [railways] is principally applicable where trade is considerable and the length of conveyance short; and is chiefly useful, therefore, in transporting the mineral produce of the kingdom from the mines to the nearest land or water communication, whether sea, river or canal. Attempts have been made to bring it into more general use, but without success; and it is only in particular circumstances that navigation, with the aid either of locks or inclined planes to surmount the elevations, will not present a more convenient medium for an extended trade.” It must be remembered, however, that at this time the railways were nearly all worked by horse-traction, and that the use of steam had made but little progress. Richard Trevithick, indeed, had in 1804 tried a high-pressure steam locomotive, with smooth wheels, on a plate-way near Merthyr Tydvil, but it was found more expensive than horses; John Blenkinsop in 1811 patented an engine with cogged wheel and rack-rail which was used, with commercial success, to convey coal from his Middleton colliery to Leeds; William Hedley in 1813 built two locomotives—Puffing Billy and Wylam Dilly—for hauling coal from Wylam Colliery, near Newcastle; and in the following year George Stephenson’s first engine, the Blucher, drew a train of eight loaded wagons, weighing 30 tons, at a speed of 4 m. an hour up a gradient of 1 in 450. But, in the words of the same article, “ This application of steam has not yet arrived at such perfection as to have brought it into general use.”
The steam locomotive, however, and with it the railways, soon began to make rapid progress. On the Stockton & Darlington railway, which was authorized by parliament in 1821, animal power was at first proposed, but on the advice of Stephenson, its engineer, steam-engines were adopted. This line, with three branches, was over 38 m. jn length, and was in the first instance laid with a single track, passing-places being provided at intervals of a quarter of a mile. At its opening, on the 27th of September 1825, a train of thirty-four vehicles, making a gross load of about 90 tons, was drawn by one engine driven by Stephenson, with a signalman on horseback in advance. The train moved off at the rate of from 10 to 12 m. an hour, and attained a speed of 15 m. an hour on favourable parts of the line. A train weighing 92 tons could be drawn by one engine at the rate of 5 m. an hour. The principal business of the new railway was the conveyance of minerals and goods, but from the first passengers insisted upon being carried, and on tbe 10th of October 1825 the company began to run a daily coach, called the “ Experiment,” to carry six inside, and from fifteen to twenty outside, making the journey from Darlington to Stockton and back in two hours. The fare was is., and each passenger was allowed to take baggage not exceeding 14 lb weight. The rate for carriage of merchandise was reduced from 3d. to one-fifth of a penny per ton per mile, and that of minerals from 7d. to i§d. per ton per mile. The price of coals .at Darlington fell from 18s. to 8s. 6d. a ton.
The example of the Stockton & Darlington line was followed by the Monklands railway in Scotland, opened in 1826, and several other small lines—including the Canterbury &
Whitstable, worked partly by fixed engines and partly by locomotives—quickly adopted steam traction. But the Liverpool & Manchester railway, opened in 1830, first impressed the national mind with the fact that a revolution in the methods of travelling had really taken place; and further, it was for it that the first high-speed locomotive of the modem type was invented and constructed. The directors having offered a prize of £500 for the best engine, trials were held on a finished portion of the line at Rainhill in October 1829, and three engines took part—the Rocket of George and Robert Stephenson, the Novelty of John Braithwaite and John Ericsson, and the Sanspareil of Timothy Hackworth. The last two of these engines broke down under trial, but the Rocket fulfilled the conditions and won the prize. Its two steam cylinders were 8 in. in diameter, with a stroke of i6§ in., and the driving wheels, which were placed in front under the funnel, were 4 ft. 8$ in. in diameter. The engine weighed 4i tons; the tender following it, 3 tons 4cwt.; and the two loaded carriages drawn by it on the trial, 9 tons rr cwt.: thus the weight drawn was i2j tons, and the gross total of the train 17 tons. The boiler evaporated 18{ cub. ft., or 114 gals., of water an hour, and the steam pressure was 50 lb per square inch. The engine drew a train weighing 13 tons 35 m. in 48 minutes, the rate being thus nearly 44 m. an hour; subsequently it drew an average gross load of 40 tons behind the tender at 13*3 m. an hour. The Rocket possessed the three elements of efficiency of the modern locomotive—the internal water-surrounded fire-box and the multitubular flue in the boiler; the blast-pipe, by which the steam after doing its work in the cylinders was exhausted up the chimney, and thus served to increase the draught and promote the rapid combustion of the fuel; and the direct connexion of the steam cylinders, one on each side of the engine, with the two driving wheels mounted on one axle. Of these features, the blast-pipe had been employed by Trevithick on his engine of 1804, and direct driving, without intermediate gearing, had been adopted in several previous engines; but the use of a number (25) of small tubes in place of one or two large flues was an innovation which in conjunction with the blast-pipe contributed greatly to the efficiency of the engine. After the success of the Rocket, the Stephensons received orders to build seven more engines, which were of very similar design, though rather larger, being four-wheeled engines, with the two driving wheels in front and the cylinders behind; and in October 1830 they constructed a ninth engine, the Planet, also for the Liverpool & Manchester railway, which still more closely resembled the modem type, since the driving wheels were placed at the fire-box end, while the two cylinders were arranged under the smoke-box, inside the frames. The main features of the steam locomotive were thus established, and its subsequent development is chiefly a history of gradual increase in size and power, and of improvements in design, in material and in mechanical construction, tending to increased efficiency and economy of operation.
In America the development of the locomotive dates from almost the same time as in England. The earliest examples used in that country, apart from a small experimental model constructed by Peter Cooper, came from England. In 1828, on behalf of the Delaware & Hudson Canal Company, which had determined to build a line, 16 m. long, from Carbondale to Honesdale, Pennsylvania, Horatio Allen ordered three locomotives from Messrs Foster & Rastrick, of Stourbridge, and one from George Stephenson. The latter, named the America, was the first to be delivered, reaching New York in January 1829, but one of the others, the Stourbridge Lion, was actually the first practical steam locomotive to run in America, which it did on the 9th of August 1829. The first American-built loeemotive, the Best Friend, of Charleston, was made at the West Point Foundry, New York, in 1830, and was put to work on the South Carolina railroad in that year. It had a vertical boiler, and was carried on four wheels all coupled, the two cylinders being placed in an inclined position and having a bore of about 6 in. with a stroke of r6 in. It is reported to have hauled 40 or 50 passengers in 4 or 5 cars at a speed of 16-21 m. an hour. After a few months of life it was blown up, its attendant, annoyed by the sound of the escaping steam, having fastened down the safety-valve. A second engine, the West Point, also built at West Point Foundry for the South Carolina railroad, differed from the Best Friend in having a horizontal boiler with 6 or 8 tubes, though in other respects it was similar. In 1831 the Baltimore & Ohio Company offered a prize of $4000 for an American engine weighing 3£ tons, able to draw 15 tons at 15 m. an hour on the level: it was won by the York of Messrs Davis & Gartner in the following year. Matthias W. Baldwin, the founder of the famous Baldwin Locomotive Works in Philadelphia, built his first engine, Old Ironsides, for the Philadelphia, Germantown & Morristowfi railroad; first tried in November 1832, it was modelled on Stephenson’s Planet, and had a single pair of driving wheels at the firebox end and a pair of carrying wheels under the smoke-box. His second engine, the E. L. Miller, delivered to the South Carolina railroad in 1834, presented a feature which has remained characteristic of American locomotives—the front part was supported on a four-wheeled swivelling bogie-truck, a device, however, which had been applied to Puffing Billy in England when it was rebuilt in 1815.
The Liverpool & Manchester line achieved a success which surpassed the anticipations even of its promoters, and in consequence numerous projects were started for the construction of railways in various parts of Great Britain. In the decade following its opening nearly 2000 m. of railway were sanctioned by parliament, including the beginnings of most of the existing trunk-lines, and in 1840 the actual mileage reached 1331 m. The next decade saw the “ railway mania.” The amount of capital which parliament authorized railway companies to raise was about 4^ millions on the average of the two years 1842-1843, 175 millions in 1844, 60 millions in 1845, and 132 millions in 1846, though this last sum was less than a quarter of the capital proposed in the schemes submitted to the Board of Trade; and the wild speculation which occurred in railway shares in 1845 contributed largely to the financial crisis of 1847. In 1850 the mileage was 6635, in i860 it was 10,410, and in 1870 it was 15,310. The increase in the decade 1860-1870 was thus nearly 50%, but subsequently the rate of increase slackened, and the mileages in 1880, 1890 and 1900 were 17,935, 20,073 and 21,855. In the United States progress was more rapid, for, beginning at 2816 in 1840, the mileage reached 9015 in 1850, 30,600 in i860, 87,801 in 1880, and 198,964 in 1900. Canada had no railway till 1853, and in South America construction did not begin till about the same time. France and Austria opened their first lines in 1828; Belgium, Germany, Russia, Italy and Holland in the succeeding decade; Switzerland and Denmark in 1844, Spain in 1848, Sweden in 1851, Norway in 1853, and Portugal in 1854; while Turkey and Greece delayed till i860 and 1869. In Africa Egypt opened her first line (between Alexandria and Cairo) in 1856, and Cape Colony followed in i860. In Asia the first line was that between Bombay and Tannah, opened in 1853, and in Australia Victoria began her railway system in 1854 (see also the articles on the various countries for further details about their railways).
Transcontinental Railways.—A railway line across North America was first completed in 1869, when the Union Pacific, building from the Missouri river at Omaha (1400 m. west of New York), met the Central Pacific, which built from San Francisco eastwards, making a line 1848 m. long through a country then for the most part uninhabited. This was followed by the Southern Pacific in 1881, from San Francisco to Newr Orleans, 2489 miles; the Northern Pacific, from St Paul to Portland, Ore., in 1883; the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6, from Kansas City to San Diego; and the Great Northern, from St* Paul to Seattle and New Westminster in 1893. Meanwhile the Canadian Pacific, a true transcontinental line, was built from Montreal, on Atlantic tide-water, to the Pacific at Vancouver, 2906 m. But these lines have been
dwarfed since 1891 by the Siberian railway, built by the Russian government entirely across the continent of Asia from Cheliabinsk (1769 m. by rail east of St Petersburg) to Vladivostok, a distance of 4073 m., with a branch from Kharbin about 500 m. long to Dalny and Port Arthur. The main line was finished in 1902, except for a length of about 170 m. in very difficult country around the south end of Lake Baikal; this was constructed in 1904, communication being maintained in the interval by ferry-boats, which conveyed all the carriages of a train across the lake, more than 40 m., when the ice permitted. A transcontinental line was long ago undertaken across South America from Buenos Aires to Valparaiso, where the continent is only about 900 m. wide. The last section through the Andes was finished in 1910.    (H. M. R.)
General Statistics
Mileages At the close of 1907 there were approximately 601,808 miles of railway in the world, excluding tramways. On the whole, the best statistical source for this information is the annual computation published by the Archtv fur Eisenbahn-wesetiy the official organ of the Prussian Ministry of Public Works; but the figure quoted above utilizes the Board of Trade returns for the United Kingdom and the report of the Interstate Commerce Commission for the United States. In the United States and in certain other countries, a fiscal year, ending on the 30th of June or at some other irregular period, is substituted for the calendar year.
The partition of this total between the principal geographical divisions of the world is given in Table l.
In the United States railway mileage now tends to increase at the rate of slightly over 5000 miles a year, which is about 2\% on the present main line mileage. In the ’ eighties, the country passed through a period of competitive building, which was productive of much financial disaster. Thus, in 1882, 11,569 m. were built—an addition equivalent to more than 11% of mileage then existing—and in 1887, 12,876 m. were built. Unjustifiable railway expansion had much to do with the American commercial panics of 1884 and 1893. After the reconstruction period of the 1893 panic, however, the tendency for a number of years was to spend larger sums in bettering existing railways rather than in new extensions. The decade from 1896 until 1905, inclusive, saw huge sums spent on yards, passing tracks, grade reduction, elimination of curves, substitution of large locomotives and cars for small ones, &c. During those ten years, the route mileage increased 34,991 m., or 17%, while the mileage of second, third, fourth and yard tracks and sidings increased 32,666 m., or nearly 57%. The number of locomotives increased 12,407, or 35%, and the number of freight cars, 545,222, or 42%. Moreover, the average tractive power per locomotive and the average capacity per freight car advanced greatly in this period, although specific figures cannot be given. ^ Thus it may fairly be said that the railway system of the United States was reconstructed between 1896 and 1905, so far as concerns rails, sleepers, ballast and the general capacity of a given group of lines to perform work. About 1905, however, a new tendency became apparent. At that time the so-called transcontinental railways, connecting the Pacific coast of the United States with the central portions of the country, and thus with the group of railways reaching the Atlantic seaboard, consisted of five railways within the borders of the United States, and one in Canada, in Canada the Canadian Pacific was the only transcontinental line, extending from St John, on the bay of Fundy, and from Quebec, on the river St Lawrence, to Vancouver, on the strait of Georgia, the distance from St John to Vancouver being approximately 3379 m. Within the boundaries of the United States the northernmost of the transcontinental lines was the Great Northern railway, extending from a point opposite Vancouver, B.C., and from Seattle, Wash., to Duluth, on Lake Superior, and to St Paul and Minneapolis, Minn., where connexion through to Chicago was made over an allied line, the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy, owned jointly by the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific.
Next, south of the Great Northern, lay the Northern Pacific railway, starting on the west from Portland, Ore., and from Seattle and Tacoma, Wash., and extending east to Duluth, St Paul and Minneapolis by way of Helena, Mont. The Central Pacific-Union Pacific route to the coast, with its important affiliated companies, the Oregon Short Line and the Oregon Railroad & Navigation Company, extended from San Francisco, Cal., and Portland, Ore., to Omaha, Neb., by way of Salt Lake City; the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6 extended from San Francisco and Los Angeles, Cal., to Chicago and to Galveston, Tex.; while the Southern Pacific had its line from San Francisco and Los Angeles to Galveston and New Orleans, running for the greater part of the distance just north of the Mexican border.
* Thus it will be observed that the five great cities of the Pacific coast—Seattle and Tacoma, Wash., Portland, Ore., and San Francisco and Los Angeles, Cal.—were already well supplied with railways; but the growth of the fertile region lying west of the transcontinental divide was most attractive to American railway builders; and railways serving this district, almost all of them in trouble ten years before, were showing great increases in earnings. In 1903 the Gould lines determined to enter this Pacific territory. Hitherto the western terminus of this group of lines had been Salt Lake City, Utah; by the exceedingly bold construction of the Western Pacific from Salt Lake City to Oakland, Cal., opposite San Francisco, an additional line to the Pacific coast was provided, having low grades and being in all respects well adapted for cheap operation.
Shortly after the plans were announced for building the Western Pacific, the Chicago, Milwaukee & St Paul also decided to extend west. Before that time the St Paul had been a great local railway, operating primarily in the Dakotas, Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin and Illinois; but by the construction of a long arm from the Missouri river to Spokane, Seattle and Tacoma, it became a transcontinental line of the first importance, avoiding the mistakes of earlier railway builders by securing a line with easy gradients through the most favourable regions.
At the same time that these two extensions were being undertaken by old and well-established railways, a new company—the Kansas City, Mexico & Orient—was engaged in constructing a line almost due south-west fro in Kansas City, Mo., to the lower part of the gulf of California in Mexico; while an additional independent line was under construction from Denver in a north-westerly direction towards the Pacific coast. The guarantee for this activity may be illustrated by a single fact: the combined building operations, in 1908, of San Francisco, Seattle, Portland, Los Angeles, Spokane and Salt Lake City exceeded the combined building operations of Philadelphia, Pittsburg, Kansas City, Boston, Baltimore and Cincinnati during the same year. San Francisco spent more in new permanent structures than Philadelphia, and Seattle spent more than Pittsburg.
Recent American railway development, viewed in its larger aspects, has thus been characterized by what may be described as the rediscovery of the Pacific coast; How far this movement will extend it is impossible to say; it is certain, however, that it will be enormously important in re-aligning trade conditions in the United States, Canada and Mexico.
Table III. illustrates the railway mileage in the continent of America at the close of 1907.
having nearly the same amount of railway mileage. In Mexico the national government is carrying out a consistent policy of developing its railway lines. It has succeeded in restoring the credit of these enterprises, and is proceeding with care and skill to form the lines into an efficient transportation system. In Argentina about 15% of the railways are owned and operated by the government, the balance being in the hands of private companies, largely^ controlled in England. Development 01 these lines has been primarily an extension from the large cities in the East to the agricultural districts in the West, but a change of great importance was brought about in 1910 by the completion of the last tunnel on the Argentine Transandine Railway, which serves to connect Santiago, Valparaiso and the other great cities of the west coast with Buenos Aires, Montevideo, Bahia, Rio de Janeiro and the other great cities of the cast coast. Naturally the company named docs not reach all of these points, but its line across the Andes supplies the indispensable link of communication, in the absence of which the east coast towns and the west coast towns have hitherto been as widely separated as if they had been located on different continents—indeed, far more widely separated in point of time and of freight charges than Great Britain and the United States.
Table IV. shows as closely as possible the railway route mileage open in Asia at the close of 1907.
Although more than half of the total mileage of Asia is in British India, it is probable that the greatest proportionate gains in the near future will be in China, Siberia and Manchuria, and Central Russia in Asia. In proportion to its population China has the least railway development of any of the great countries of the world; the probability that its present commercial awakening will extend seems large, and in that case it will need a vast increase in its interior communications.
In Africa, it wiU be seen by Table V. that the railway mileage in the British possessions amounts to almost five-sixths of the total.
The so-called Cape-to-Cairo route shows occasional extensions, particularly in the opening up of new country in Central Africa by the Rhodesian railway system. The Rhodesian railway system in 1910 had penetrated north of Broken Hill, which is just above the fifteenth parallel of south latitude, while the Egyptian railway system had reached Gondokoro, located close to the fifth parallel of north latitude. The intervening distance, through country exceedingly unhealthy for white men, and therefore promising no traffic except raw materials, does not seem a likely field for rapid railway extension.
In Australia the increase in railway mileage in the five years ending December 31st, 1907 was about 7%—a small proportion as compared with America, Asia or Africa. The greatest increase, both relative and absolute, was in Queensland; the smallest in South Australia, which added only 24 m. during the five years. Yet the mileage open per 10,000 inhabitants in Australia, as a whole, far surpasses that in any other of the broad geographical divisions.
Table VII. illustrates the mileage open to the end of 1007 per 100 sq. m. of territory and per 10,000 inhabitants. It will be observed that Belgium leads all the countries of the world in what may be called its railway density, with the United Kingdom a far-distant second in the list, and Persia last. In railway mileage per 10,000 inhabitants, however, Queensland, in the Australian group, reports a figure mufch greater than any other country; while at the other end of the list Persia holds the record for isolation.
Capital.—The total construction capital invested in the railways of the world in 1907 was estimated by the Archiv für Eisenbahnwesen at £8,986,150,000; the figure is necessarily incomplete, though it serves as a rough approximation. This total was divided nearly evenly between the countries of Europe and the rest of the world. The United States of America, with a capital of £3,059,800,000 invested in its railways on the 30th of June 1906, was easily ahead of every other country, and in 1908 the figure was increased to £3,443,027,685, of which £2,636,569,089 was in the hands of the public. On a route-mileage basis, however, the capital cost of the British railway system is far greater than that of any other country in the world, partly because a vast proportion of the lines are double, treble or even quadruple, partly because the safety^ requirements of the Board of Trade and the high standards of the original builders made actual construction very costly.
The total paid-up railway capital of the United Kingdom amounted, in 1908, to £1,310,533,212, or an average capitalization of £56,476 per route mile, though it should be noted that this total included £196,364,618 of nominal additions through ^ “ stock-splitting,” &c. Per mile of single track, the capitalization in England and Wales, Scotland, Ireland and the United Kingdom, is shown in Table VIII.
The table excludes sidings, because they cannot fairly be compared with running tracks, mile for mile. Yet the mileage of sidings in the United Kingdom amounted to 14,353 in 1908, and the cost of constructing them was probably not far from £6o,ooo,ood.
On a single-track-mile basis, the following comparison may be made between apparent capital costs in Great Britain and the United States:—
Single-Track Paid-up Capital Mileage.    per Mile.
United Kingdom, 1908    .    .    39*316     ¿33.333
United States, 1908 .    .    .    254,192    10,372*
The figures for the United States are from the report of the Interstate Commerce Commission for the year ended 30th of June 1908, and comprise mileage of first, second, third and fourth tracks, and paid-up capital in the hands of the public only. The British figures are from the Board of Trade returns for the calendar year 1908. In comparing the figures, it should be noted that main line mileage in the Eastern states, as for example that of the Pennsylvania railroad and the New York, New Haven & Hartford, does not differ greatly in standards of safety or in unit cost from the best British construction, although improvement work in America is charged to income far more liberally than it has been in England. But there are long stretches of pine loam in the South where branch lines can be, and are, built and equipped for £2400 or less per mile, while the construction of new main line in the prairie region of the West ought not to cost more than £4000 per single-track-mile, under present conditions.
The problem of the early railway builders in the United States was to conquer the wilderness, to build an empire, and at the same time to bind the East to the West and the North to the South. There can be little doubt but that the United States would long ago have disintegrated into separate, warring republics, had they not been bound together by railways, and standards of safety were
rightly subordinated to the main task to be accomplished. Conquest is not usually bloodless, whether achieved at the van of a marching column or at the head of a hastily-built railway, and the process under which the American railway system took form left the way open for a distressing record of accidents to the traveller and the railway servant. But as traffic becomes more dense, year by year, the rebuilding process is constant, and American railway lines are gradually becoming safer
In Europe the average route-mile capital is £27,036, and Table IX. shows the differences between various countries.
Statistical Study of Railway Operation.—The study of railway operation through statistics has two distinct aspects. It has been well said that statistics furnish the means by which the railway manager disciplines his property; this is the aspect of control. On the other hand, the banker, the government official and the economist use railway statistics to obtain information which may be characterized as static rather than dynamic. Both uses ultimately rest upon comparison of the observed data from a certain property with the observed data from other properties, or with predetermined standards of performance.
In general, the British working unit supplied as public information has always been the goods-train-mile and the passenger-train-mile, these figures being the products of the number of trains into the number of miles they have travelled. In America, the basic units have been the ton-mile and the passenger-mile, and these figures are now required to be furnished to the Interstate Commerce Commission and to most of the state commissions as well. Both the British manager and the American manager, however, are supplied with a considerable number of daily, weekly and monthly reports, varying on different railways, which are not made public. The daily sheets usually include a summarized statement of the performance of every train on the line, covering the amount of business done, the destination of the loads, &c. For a number of years there has been a movement in Great Britain to require the inclusion of ton-mile statistics in the stated returns to the Board of Trade, but most railway managers have objected to the change on the ground that their own confidential information was already adequate for purposes of control, afid that ton-mile statistics would require additional clerical force to a costly extent. The Departmental Committee of the Board of Trade, sitting in 1909 to consider railway accounting forms, while recommending ton-miles to the careful consideration of those responsible for railway working in Great Britain, considered the question of their necessity in British practice to be still open, and held that, at all events, they should not be introduced under compulsion.
References.—Annual Reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission; Poor's Manual of Railroads (annual, New York); Statistical Abstract of the United States (annual, Washington, published by the U. S. Bureau of Statistics); A. T. Hadley, Railroad Transportation, Its History and Laws (New York, 1885); E. R. Johnson, American Railway Transportation (New York, 1908); L. ‘G. McPherson, Railroad Freight Rates (New York, 1909); S. Daggett, Railroad Reorganization (Boston, 1908); M. L. Byers, Economics of Railway Operation (New York, 1908); E. R. Dewsnup (ed.), Railway Organization and Working (Chicago, 1906); Interstate Commerce Commission; Rate Regulation Hearings before the U.S. Senate Committee^ (Washington, 5 vols., 1905); and on cunent matters, The Official Railway Guide (monthly, New York), the Railroad Age Gazette (weekly, New York) and the Commercial and Financial Chronicle (weekly, New York).    (R. Mo.)
Economics and Legislation
It was at one time an axiom of law and of political economy that prices should be determined by free competition. But in the development of the railway business it soon became evident
that no such dependence on free competition was possible, either in practice or in theory. This difficulty is not peculiar to railways; but it was in the history of railway economy and railway control that certain characteristics which are now manifesting themselves in all directions where large investments of fixed capital are involved were first brought prominently to public notice.
For a large number of those who use a railway, competition in its more obvious forms does not and cannot exist. Independent carriers cannot run trains over the same line and underbid one another in offering transportation services. It would be practically impossible for a line thus used by different carriers to be operated either with safety, or with economy, or with the advantage to the public which a centralized management affords. It is equally impossible for the majority of shippers to enjoy the competition of parallel lines. Such duplication of railways involves a waste of capital. If parallel lines compete at all points, they cause ruin to the investors. If they compete at some points and not at others, they produce a discrimination or preference with regard to rates and facilities, which builds up the competitive points at the expense of the non-competitive ones. Such partial competition, with the discrimination it,involves, is liable to be worse for the public than no competition at all. It increases the tendency, already too strong, towards concentration of industrial life in large towns. It produces an uncertainty with regard to rates which prevents stability of prices, and is apt to promote the interests of the unscrupulous speculator at the expense of those whose business methods are more conservative. So marked are these evils that such partial competition is avoided by agreements between the competing lines with regard to rates, and by divisions of traffic, or pools, which shall take away the temptation to violate such rate agreements. The common law has been somewhat unfavourable to the enforcement of such agreements, and statutes in the United States,both local and national, have attempted to prohibit them; but the public advantage from their existence has been so great as to render their legal disabilities inoperative. In those parts of the continent of Europe where railways are owned and administered by state authority, the necessity for such agreements is frankly admitted.
But if rates are to be fixed by agreement, and not by competition, what principle can be recognized as a legitimate basis of railway rate-making? The first efforts at railway legislation were governed by the equal mileage principle; that is, the attempt was made to make rates proportionate to the distance. It was, however, soon seen that this was inadmissible. So much of the expense of the handling, both of freight and of passengers, was independent of the length of the journey that a mileage rate sufficiently large for short distances was unnecessarily burdensome for long ones, and was bound to destroy long-distance traffic, if the theory were consistently applied. The system has been retained in large measure in passenger business, but only because of the conflict which inevitably occurs between the authorities and the passengers with regard to the privilege of breaking and resuming a journey when passenger rates are arranged on any other plan. In freight schedules it has been completely abandoned.
A somewhat better theory of rate regulation was then framed, which divided railway expenditures into movement expense, connected with the line in general, and terminal expense, which connected itself with the stations and station service. Under this system each consignment of freight is compelled to pay its share of the terminal expense, independently of distance, plus a mileage charge proportionate to the length of the journey or haul. There has been also a further attempt in England to divide terminal charges into station and service terminals, according to the nature of the work for which compensation is sought. But none of these classifications of expense reaches the root of the matter. A system of charges which compels each piece of traffic to pay its share of the charges for track and for stations overlooks the fundamental fact that a very large part of the expenses of a railway—more than half—is not connected either with the cost of moving traffic or of handling traffic at stations, but with the cost of maintaining the property as a whole. Of this character are the expenditures necessary for maintenance of way, for general administration and for interest on capital borrowed, which are almost independent of the total amount of business done, and quite independent of any individual piece of business. To say that all traffic must bear its share of these interest and maintenance charges is to impose upon the railways a rate which would cut off much of the longdistance traffic, and much of the traffic in cheap articles, which is of great value to the public, and which, from its very magnitude, is a thing that railways could not afford to lose. It is also a fact that with each recurring decade these general expenses (also called indirect, undistributed or fixed charges) have an increased importance as compared with the particular (direct, distributed or operating) expense attaching naturally to the particular portions of the traffic. For with increased density of population it becomes profitable to make improvements on the original location, even though this may involve increased charges for interest and for some parts of its maintenance, for the sake of securing that economy of operation, through larger train-loads, which such an improved location makes possible.
Whatever the ostensible form of a railway tariff, the contribution of the different shipments of freight to these general expenses is determined on the principle of charging what the traffic will bear. Under this principle, rates arc reduced where the increase of business which follows such reduction makes the change a profitable one. They are kept relatively high in those cases where the expansion of business which follows a reduction is small, and where such a change is therefore unprofitable. This theory of charging what the traffic will bear is an unpopular one, because it has been misapplied by railway managers and made an excuse for charging what the traffic will not bear. Rightly applied, however, it is the only sound economic principle. It means taxation according to ability—that ability being determined by actual experiment.
In the practical carrying out of this principle, railways divide all articles of freight into classes, the highest of which are charged two or three, or even four times the rates of the lowest. This classification is based partly upon special conditions of service, which make some articles more economical to carry than others (with particular reference to the question whether the goods are offered to the companies in car-loads or in smkll parcels), but chiefly with regard to the commercial value of the article, and its consequent ability to bear a high charge or a low one. For each of these classes a rate-sheet gives the actual rate-charge per unit of weight between the various stations covered by the tariff. This rate increases as the distance increases, hut not in equal proportion; while the rates from large trade centres to other trade centres at a great distance are not higher than those to intermediate points somewhat less remote; if the law permits, there is a tendency to make them actually a little lower. Besides the system of charges thus prescribed in the classification and rate-sheet, each tariff provides for a certain number of special rates or charges made for particular lines of trade in certain localities, independently of their relation to the general system. If these special rates are published in the tariff, and are offered to all persons alike, provided they can fulfil the conditions imposed by the company, they are known as commodity rates, and arc apparently a necessity in any scheme of railway charges. If, however, they are not published, and are given to certain persons as individual favours, they become a prolific source of abuse, and are quite indefensible from the standpoint of political economy.
While the superficial appearance of the railway tariff is different for different countries, and somefimes for different parts of the same country, the general principles laid down are followed in rate-making by all well-managed fines, whether state or private. It is a mistake to suppose that the question of public or private ownership will make any considerable difference in the system of rate-making adopted by a good railway. A state system will be compelled, by the exigencies
of the public treasury, to arrange its rates to pay interest on its securities; a private company will generally be prevented, by the indirect competition of railways in other parts of the country which it serves, from doing very much more than this. The relative merit of the two systems depends upon the question how we can secure the best efficiency and equity in the application of the principles thus far laid down. There are three different systems of control:—
1.    Private operation, subject only to judicial regulation, was exemplified most fully in the early railway history of the United States. Until 1870 railway companies were almost free from special acts of control; and, in general, any company that could raise or borrow the capital was allowed to build a railway wherever it saw fit. In the United Kingdom there was almost as much immunity from legislative interference with charges, but the companies were compelled to secure special charters, and to conform to regulations made by the Board of Trade in the interests of public safety. The advantage of this relatively free system of railway building and management is that it secures efficient and progressive methods. Most of the improvements in operation and in traffic management have had their origin in one of these two countries. The disadvantage attendant upon this system is that the courts are reluctant to exercise the right of regulation, except on old and traditional lines, and that in the face of new business methods the public may be inadequately protected. There is also this further disadvantage, that in the gradual progress ôf consolidation railway companies take upon themselves the aspect of large monopolies, of whose apparently unrestricted power the public is jealous. As a result of these difficulties there has been, both in the United Kingdom and in the United States, a progressive increase of legislative interference with railways. In the former the Railway and Canal Traffic Act of 1854 specially prohibited preferences, either in facilities or in rates. The Regulation of Railways Act of 1873 provided for a Railway Commission, which should be so constituted as to take cognizance of cases on the investigation of which the courts were reluctant to enter. Finally, the legislation of 1888 put into the hands of a reorganized Railway Commission and of the Board of Trade powers none the less important in principle because their action has been less in its practical effect than the advocates of active control demanded. In the United States the years from 1870 to 1875 witnessed sweeping and generally ill-considered legislation (“ Grangern Acts) concerning railway charges throughout the Mississippi valley; while the years from 1884 to 1887 were marked by more conservative, and for that reason more enforceable, acts, which culminated in the Interstate Commerce Act, prohibiting personal discrimination and gradually restricting discrimination between places, and providing for a National Commission of very considerable power—not to speak of the pooling clause, which was extraneous to the general purpose of the act, and has tended to defeat rather than strengthen its operation.
2.    Operation by private companies, under specific provisions of the government authorities with regard to the method of its exercise, has been the policy consistently carried out in France, and less systematically and consistently in other countries under the domination of the Latin race. It was believed by its advocates that this system of prescribing the conditions of construction and operation of lines could promote public safety, prevent waste of capital and secure passengers and shippers against extortionate rates. These expectations have been only partially fulfilled. Well trained as was the civil service of France, the effect of this supervision in deadening activity was sometimes more marked than in its effect in preventing abuse. Moreover, such a system of regulation almost necessarily carries with it a guarantee of monopoly to the various companies concerned, and not infrequently large gifts in the form of subsidies, for without such aid private capital will not submit to the special burdens involved. These rights, whether of monopoly or of subsidy, form a means of abuse in many directions. Where the government is bad, they are a fruitful source of corruption; even where it is good, they enable the companies to drive hard bargains with the public, and prevent the expected benefits of official control from being realized.
3. State operation and ownership is a system which originated in Belgium at the beginning of railway enterprise, and has been consistently carried out by the Scandinavian countries and by Hungary. Since i860 it has been the policy of Australia. It has generally come to be that of Germany and, so far as the finances of the countries allow, of Austria and Russia; British India also affords not a few examples of the same method. The theory of state ownership is excellent. So large a part of the railway charge is of the nature of a tax, that there seem to be a priori reasons for leaving the taxing powers in the hands of the agents of the government. In practice its operation is far more uncertain. Whether the intelligence and efficiency of the officials charged by the state with the handling of its railway system will be sufficient to make them act in the interest of the public as fully as do the managers of private corporations, is a question whose answer can only be determined by actual experience in each case... If they fail to have these qualities, the complete monopoly which a government enjoys, and the powers of borrowing which are furnished by the use of the public credit, increase instead of diminishing the danger of arbitrary action, unprogressiveness and waste of capital. Even in matters like public safety it is by no means certain that government authorities will do so well as private ones. The question is one which practical railway men have long since ceased to argue on general principles; they recognize that the answer depends upon the respective degree of talent and integrity which characterize the business community on the one hand and the government officials on the other.
Authorities.—On economics of construction and of operation, see Wellington, The Economic Theory of Railway Location (5th ed., New York, i8q6); On principles governing railway rates in general, and specifically in England, see Acworth, The Railways and the Traders (London, 1891). On comparative railway legislation and the principles governing it, see Hadley, Railroad Transportation; its History and its Laws (New York, 1885). On the history of railway legislation in England, see Cohn, Untersuchungen über die Englische Eisenbahnpolitik (Leipzig, 1874-83). On practice concerning rates in continental Europe, see Ulrich, Das Eisenbahntarifwesen (Berlin, 1886). (Since this was published, continental passenger rates have fallen. The French translation—Paris, 1898—gives Russian tariffs.) On the question of “ nationalization " (i.e. state ownership and operation), see an article by Edgar Crammond in the Quarterly Review (London) for October 1909, which cites, among other works on the subject, Clement Edwards's Railway Nationalization (1898); Edwin A. Pratt's Railway Nationalization (1908), and E. A. Davis’s Nationalization of Railways (1908).    (A. T. H.)
British Railway Legislation
The first thing a railway company in Great Britain has to do is to obtain a special or private act of parliament authorizing the construction of the line. Not that the mere laying or working of a railway requires parliamentary sanction, tion!*™0 ' so long as the work does not interfere with other people's rights and interests. An example of a railway built without any legislative authority is the little mountain railway from Llanberis to the summit of Snowdon, which was made by the owner of the land through which it passes. Such a railway has no statutory rights and no special obligations, and the owner of it is liable to be sued for creating a nuisance if the working of the line interferes with the comfort of those residing in the neighbourhood. When, however, a company desires to construct a line on a commercial scale, to acquire land compulsorily, to divert rivers and streams, to cross roads either on the level or by means of bridges, to pass near houses, to build tunnels or viaducts, and to execute all the other works incidental to a railway, and to work the line when completed without interference, it is essential that the authority of parliament should be obtained. The company therefore promotes a bill, which is considered first by select committees of the two houses of parliament, and afterwards by the two houses themselves, during which period it faces the opposition, if any, of rival concerns, of local authorities and of hostile landowners. If this is successfully overcome, and the proposals meet with the
approval of parliament, the bill is passed and, after securing the Royal Assent, becomes an act of parliament. The company is then free to proceed with the work of construction, and at once becomes subject to various general acts, such as the Companies Clauses Act, which affects all joint-stock companies incorporated by any special act; the Land Clauses Act, which has reference to all companies having powers to acquire land compulsorily; the Railway Clauses Act, which imposes certain conditions on all railways alike (except light railways); the various Regulation of Railways Acts; the Carriers Protection Act; acts for the conveyance of mails, parcels, troops; acts relating to telegraphs, to the conveyance of workmen and to the housing of the labouring classes; and several others which it is unnecessary to specify. From the early days of railways parliament has also been careful to provide for the safety of the public by inserting in the general or special acts definite conditions, and by laying upon the Board of Trade the duty of protecting the public using a railway.
The first act which has reference to the safety of passengers is the Regulation of Railways Act of 1842, which obliges every railway company to give notice to the Board of Trade of its intention to open the railway for passenger traffic, and places upon that public department the duty of inspecting the line before the opening of it takes place. If the officer appointed by the Board of Trade should, after inspection of the railway, report to the department that in his opinion “ the opening of the same would be attended with danger to the public using the same, by reason of the incompleteness of the works or permanent way, or the insufficiency of the establishment for working such railway,” it is lawful for the department to direct the company to postpone the opening of the line for any period not exceeding one month at a time, the process being repeated from month to month as often as may be necessary. The company is liable to a fine of twenty pounds a day if it should open the line in contravention of such order or direction. The inspections made by the officers of the Board of Trade under this act are very complete: the permanent way, bridges, viaducts, tunnels and other works are carefully examined; all iron or steel girders are tested; stations, including platforms, stairways, waiting-rooms, &c., are inspected; and the signalling and “ interlocking ” are thoroughly overhauled. A code of requirements in regard to the opening of new railways has been drawn up by the department for the guidance of railway companies, and as the special circumstances of each line are considered on their merits, it rarely happens that the department finds it necessary to prohibit the opening of a new railway. The Regulation of Railways Act of 1871 extends the provisions of the above act to the opening of “ any additional line of railway, deviation line, station, junction or crossing on the level ” which forms a portion of or is connected with a passenger railway, and which has been constructed subsequently to the inspection of it. This act further defines the duties and powers of the inspectors of the Board of Trade, and also authorizes the Board to dispense with the notice which the previous act requires to be given prior to the opening of a railway.
It may be remarked that neither of these acts confers on the Board of Trade any power to inspect a railway after it has once been opened, unless and until some addition or alteration, such as is defined in the last-named act, has been made. When a line has once been inspected and passed, it lies with the company to maintain it in accordance with the standard of efficiency it originally possessed, but no express statutory obligation to do so is imposed upon the company, and whether it does so or not, the Board of Trade cannot interfere.
The act of 1871 further renders it obligatory upon every railway company to send notice to the Board of Trade in the case of (1) any accident attended with loss of life or personal injury to any person whatsoever; (2) any collision where one of the trains is a passenger train;
(3)    any passenger train or part of such train leaving the rails;
(4) any other accident likely to have caused loss of life or personal injury, and specified on that ground by any order made from time to time by the Board of Trade. The department is authorized, on receipt of such report, to direct an inquiry to be made into the cause of any accident so reported, and the inspector appointed to make the inquiry is given power to enter any railway premises for the purposes of his inquiry, and to summon any person engaged upon the railway to attend the inquiry as a witness, and to require the production of all books, papers and documents which he considers important for the purpose. The inspector, after making his investigation, is required to make a report to the Board of Trade as to the causes of the accident and the circumstances attending the same, with any observations on the subject which he deems right, and the Board “ shall cause every such report to be made public in such manner as they think expedient.” The usual mode of publishing such reports is to forward them to railway companies concerned, as well as to the press, and on application to any one else who is interested. The reports are subsequently included in a Blue-book and presented to parliament. It should be noted that although the inspecting officer may in his report make any recommendations that he may think fit with a view to guarding against any similar accident occurring in the future, no power is given to the Board of Trade, or to any other authority, to compel any railway company to adopt such recommendations. This omission is sometimes held to be an error, but as a fact it is an advantage. The moral effect of the report, with the criticisms of the company’s methods and recommendations appended thereto, is great, and it rarely happens that a company refuses to adopt, or at any rate to test, the recommendations so made. If, on the other hand, the company is of opinion that the suggestions of the inspecting officer are not likely to prove beneficial, or are for any reason unadvisable, it is at liberty to reject them, the responsibility of doing so resting entirely upon itself. The effect of this latitude is to give the company ample discretion in the matter, and to enable the act to be administered and the object of it to be attained without undue interference.
In 1889 a very important act was passed placing upon the Board of Trade the obligation to call upon railway companies throughout the United Kingdom (1) to adopt upon all passenger lines the “ block ” system of working;
(2) to “ interlock ” their points and signals; (3) to fit all trains carrying passengers with some form of automatic continuous brake. Prior to this some companies had, to a certain extent, done these things, but few, if any, were completely equipped in these respects. A reasonable period was afforded them, according to circumstances, to comply with these requirements, and at the present time the work is practically complete. In this respect the lines of the United Kingdom are far ahead of those of any other country, and a diminution of accidents, particularly of collisions, has resulted therefrom. America is now following the lead thus set, and all the most important lines in the United States have adopted block working and interlocking, but a great deal still remains to be done. In certain respects, on the other hand, America has gone further than the United Kingdom, especially in the matter of automatic signalling, and in the operating of points and signals by electrical power or air-pressure instead of manual labour. In America, also, freight trains are fitted with an automatic continuous brake, whereas in the United Kingdom this appliance is required by law only in the case of passenger trains, and in fact is not fitted to goods and mineral trains except in a few isolated instances.
The above-named acts enable the Board of Trade to take all the necessary steps to ensure that the safety of passenger trains is sufficiently guarded. More recently legislation has been passed to safeguard the lives and interests of railway servants. In 1893 an act was passed by parliament giving the Board power to interfere if or when representations are made to them by or on behalf of any servant or class of servants of a railway company that the hours of work are unduly long, or do not provide sufficient intervals of uninterrupted rest between the periods of duty, or sufficient relief in respect of Sunday duty. In such cases the company concerned may, after inquiry, be called upon to submit such a
schedule of the hours during which the man or men are employed as will bring those hours within limits which appear to the department reasonable. In the event of the company failing to comply with the demands of the department, the latter is empowered to refer the case to the Railway and Canal Commissioners, who form a special Court constituted by the Railway and Canal Traffic Act of 1888, for deciding, among other things, questions relating to rates and charges, for protecting traders from undue charges and undue preference, for regulating questions of traffic, and for deciding certain disputes between railway companies and the public. The Commissioners are then empowered to deal with the matter, and if “ a railway company fail to comply with any order made by the Railway and Canal Commissioners, or to enforce the provisions of any schedule ” approved by them, it is liable to a fine of a hundred pounds for every day during which the default continues. This act has been the means of effecting a considerable reduction in the hours worked by railway men on certain railways, and no case has yet arisen in which a reference to the Commissioners has been necessary. Such modifications of the hours of work have not only been beneficial to the men, but have improved the discipline of the staff and the punctuality and regularity of the train service, particularly in respect of the goods trains.
The Notice of Accidents Act of 1884, which obliges employers of labour to report to the Board of Trade, when “there occurs in any employment ” as defined by the schedule of the act, “any accident which causes to any person employed therein, either loss of life or such bodily injury as to prevent him on any one of the three working days next after the occurrence of the accident from being employed for five hours on his ordinary work,” affects railways in course of construction, but not, as a rule, otherwise.
Although the administration of the above-mentioned acts of parliament has had a beneficial effect upon the safety of the public, and has enabled an enormous volume of traffic to be handled with celerity, punctuality and absence of risk, it has during recent years come to notice that the number of casualties among railway servants is still unduly great, and in 1899 a Royal Commission was appointed to investigate the causes of the numerous accidents, fatal and nonfat al, to railway men. As a consequence of the report of this Commission the Railway Employment (Prevention of Accidents) Act of 1900 was passed, putting upon the Board of Trade the duty of making “ such rules as they think fit with respect to any of the subjects mentioned in the schedule to this act, with the object of reducing or removing the dangers and risks incidental to railway service.” Rules may also be made in respect to other matters besides those mentioned in the schedule, and companies may be called upon to adopt or reject, as the case may be, any appliance, the use or disuse of which may be considered desirable in the interest of the men. Before, however, the rules so made become binding upon the companies, the latter have the right of appealing against them to the Railway Commissioners. Failure to comply with any of the rules renders a company “ liable for each offence, on conviction under the Summary Jurisdiction Acts, to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds, or in the case of a continuing offence to a fine not exceeding ten pounds for every day during which the offence continues after conviction.” Rules drafted by the Board of Trade under this act came into force on the 8th of August 1902, the subjects referred to being (1) labelling of wagons; (2) movements of wagons by propping and tow-roping; (3) power-brakes on engines; (4) lighting of stations and sidings; (5) protection of points, rods, &c.; (6) construction and protection of gauge-glasses; (7) arrangement of tool-boxes, &c., on engines; (8) provision of brake-vans for trains upon running lines beyond the limits of stations; (9) protection to permanent-way men when relaying or repairing permanent way. The final settlement, of a rule requiring brake-levers to be fitted on both sides of goods-wagons was, however, deferred, owing to objections raised by certain of the railway companies.
Other acts which are of importance in connexion with accidents are the Accidents Compensation Act of 1846, the Employers1 Liability Act of 1880, and the Workmen’s Compensation Act of 1897.
The public acts of parliament referring to British railways are collected in Bigg’s General Railway A els.    (H. A. Y.)
American Railway Legislation
Before 1870.—The earliest legislation is contained in charters granted by special act, for the construction of railways. These special acts gradually gave way to general statutes under which railway corporations could be created without application to the legislature. In the east, where, as a rule, charters had been uniform and consistent, the change to general incorporation law was due to a desire to render incorporations speedier and less expensive. In the west, general laws came rather as a result of the abuses of special legislation. By 1850, general incorporation laws were found in nearly all the eastern states, and by 1870 in those of the west.
Early legislation was confined almost entirely to matters of construction. In cases where statutes did touch the question of regulation, they had to do with the operation of trains and with the provision of facilities for shippers and passengers, rather than with questions of rates. It was natural that this should be so, for the new transportation agency was so much more efficient than anything previously available that the people were eager to take advantage of its superior service. As a rule, the making of rates was left to the corporations. If the maximum rates were prescribed, as they sometimes were, the limit was placed so high as to be of no practical value for control. Such crude attempts as were made to prevent rates from being excessive concerned themselves with profits, and were designed to confiscate for the state treasury any earnings beyond a certain prescribed dividend. Publicity of rates was not generally required, and provisions against discrimination were rare. In the period before 1850 th£re was but little realization of the public nature of the railway industry and of the possibilities of injury to the public if railway corporations were left uncontrolled.
In regions where capital was lacking eagerness for railway facilities led the people to demand the direct co-operation of the state, and many projects, most of which ended in disaster, were undertaken either by the state itself or through the aid of the state’s credit. For example, Michigan, in 1837, in the first session of its state legislature, made plans for the construction of 557 miles of railway under the direct control of the state, and the governor was authorized to issue bonds for the purpose. The unfortunate results of this policy led many of the states, from about 1850, to put constitutional limitations upon the power of their legislatures to lend the state’s credit or to involve the state as stockholder in the affairs of any corporation.
As railway building increased in response to traffic needs, and as the consolidation of short lines into continuous systems proceeded, legislation applicable to railways became somewhat broader in scope and more intelligent. About 1850 there began to appear on the statute books laws requiring publicity of rates and the submission of annual reports to the legislature, prescribing limits to corporate indebtedness, and also making provision for safety in operation and for the character and quality of railway service. Consolidation and leasing were commonly permitted in the case of continuous lines, but were regularly prohibited in the case of parallel and competing lines. The practice of pooling seems not to have attracted the attention of the legislature. In general it may be asserted that legislation of this period was ill-considered, haphazard, and on a petty scale. Moreover, it was of little practical importance even within its narrow range, for it does not appear to have been generally enforced.
1870-iQOO.—Railway legislation first assumed importance in connection with the “ Granger Movement ” in the middle west. There the policy of subsidies for railway building had been carried to a reckless extreme. Roads had been constructed in advance of settlement, and land-seekers had been
transported to these frontier sections only to become dependent upon the railways for their very existence. To the unusual temptations thus offered for favouritism and discriminations in rates, t he railways generally yielded. This preferen tial and discriminating policy, combined with other causes which cannot here be discussed, resulted in the Granger legislation of the 'seventies. In the first instance laws were enacted prescribing schedules of maximum freight and passenger rates with stringent penalties against rebates and discriminations. These measures proving unsatisfactory, they were soon superseded by statutes creating railway commissions with varied powers of regulation. The commission method of control was not a new one. Such bodies, established to appraise land for railway purposes, to apportion receipts and expenditures of interstate traffic, and in a general way to supervise railway transportation, had been in existence in New England before 1S60, one of the earliest being that of Rhode Island in 1839. In 1869 Massachusetts had instituted a commission of more modern type, which was given only powers of investigation and recommendation, the force of public opinion being relied upon to make its orders effective. Western commissions, the offspring of the Granger movement, were of a more vigorous type. Most of them had powf er to impose schedules of maximum rates; practically all of them had authority to prescribe rates upon complaint of shippers; and they could all seek the aid of the courts to enforce their decrees. Their power to initiate rates, conferred upon them by their legislatures, was sustained by the Supreme Court of the United States, the Court reserving to itself only the power to decide whether the prescribed rates were reasonable.
But the jurisdiction of the state commissions was, by judicial interpretation, limited to commerce beginning and ending within the limits- of the single state. The most important part of railway transportation, that which was interstate in character, was left untouched. It was this impotence of the state commission that furnished the strongest incentive to Congressional action. The result was the passage, in 1887, of the Interstate Commerce Act, which was directed towards the extirpation of illegal and unjust practices in commerce among the states. Its primary purpose was to embody in statutory form the common-law principle of equal treatment under like circumstances, and to provide machinery for enforcement. It aimed at the prohibition of discrimination between persons, places and commodities. It made provision for publicity of rates and for due notice of any change in rates; it forbade pooling of freight or earnings, and required annual reports from the carriers. For its enforcement, it created an Interstate Commerce Commission of five members, with powers of investigation, and with authority to issue remedial orders upon complaint and after hearing. Findings of the Commission were to be prima facie evidence in any court proceeding for the enforcement of its orders.
In this connexion, reference should be made to the Anti-Trust Act of 1S90, which, by its judicial interpretation, has been held to include railways and to forbid rate agreements between competing carriers.
The act of 1887 remained in force without substantial amendment until 1906, although with constantly diminishing prestige, a result largely due to adverse decisions concerning the powers of the Commission. Ten years after the passage of the law, the court decided that the Commission had no power to prescribe a rate, and that its jurisdiction over rates was confined to a determination of the question whether the rate complained of was unreasonable. The Commission had much difficulty at the beginning in securing the testimony of witnesses, who invoked the Constitution of the United States as a bar against selfincrimination, and the immunity clause of the act had to be amended before testimony could be obtained. The so-called “ long-and-short-haul clause," which forbade a greater charge for a long than for a short haul over the same line, if circumstances were substantially similar, was also robbed of all its vitality by court decision. The section requiring annual reports, while it led to the creation of a Bureau of Statistics, did not give the Commission power to compel complete or satisfactory answers to its requests for information. The only element of real strength that the statute acquired during the first twenty years of its history came from the Elkins Act of 1903, which stipulated that the published rate should be the legal rate, and declared any departure from the published rate to be a misdemeanour. It held shipper as well as carrier, and corporation as well as its officer or agent, liable for violations of the act, and conferred upon United States courts power to employ equity processes in putting an end to discrimination. Conviction for granting rebates was by this law made easier and more effective.
Since igoo.—The movement in favour of more vigorous railway regulation became pronounced after 1900. Twenty years of experience and observation had revealed the defects of the earlier legislation, and had concentrated public attention more intelligently than ever before upon the problem of strengthening the weak spots. The state commissions, since their establishment in the ’seventies and the ’eighties, had increased their functions and influence. Many of them, beginning only with powers of recommendation, had obtained a large extension of authority. By 1908, thirty-five of the forty state commissions were of the mandatory type, and thirteen of these had been created since 1904. They had been given power to require complete annual reports from carriers, with a consequent great increase in public knowledge concerning railway operation and practice. The most recent type of state commission is the so-called Public Utility Commission, of which the best examples are those of New York and Wisconsin, established in 1907. In both states, the Commissions have power over electric railways and local public utilities furnishing heat, light and power, as well as over steam railway transportation, and the Wisconsin Commission also has control over telephone companies. In both states the consent of the Commission is necessary for the issue of corporate securities.
Mention should be made of the mass of general legislation passed, principally by western states, since 1905, in response to a popular demand for lower rates. This demand has in many instances led to ill-considered legislation, has frequently ignored the prerogatives and even the existence of the state commissions, and has brought about the passage by state legislatures of maximum freight and passenger rate law's, with rates so low in many cases that they have been set aside by the courts as unconstitutional. The numerous law's limiting the fare for passengers to two cents per mile are an illustration of this tendency. *
In the field of federal legislation, no significant change took place until the passage of the Hepburn Act of 1906, which was an amendment of the act of 1887. While failing to correct all the defects in the original statute, the amended law was a decided step in the direction of efficient regulation. It increased the jurisdiction of the Commission by placing under the act express companies, sleeping-car companies and pipe lines for the transportation of oil. It extended the meaning of the term “ railroad ” to include switches, spurs and terminal facilities, and the term “ transportation " to include private cars, and all collateral services, such as refrigeration, elevation and storage. The Elkins Act of 1903 was incorporated in the statute, ^nd an imprisonment penalty was added to the existing fine. It forbade the granting of passes except to certain specified classes, —a provision entirely # absent from the original measure. It expressly conferred upon the Commission the power to prescribe maximum rates, upon complaint and after hearing, as well as to make joint rates, and to establish through rates when the carriers had themselves refused to do so. It enacted that published rates should not be changed except on thirty days’ notice, whether the change involved an increase or a decrease, and it required annual reports to be made under oath, penalties being prescribed for failure to comply with the Commission’s requests for information. Power w'as also given to prescribe uniform systems of accounts for all classes of carriers, and to employ special examiners to inspect the books and accounts. Carriers were forbidden to keep any accounts, records or memoranda other than those approved by the Commission.
Orders of the Commission became effective within such time, not less than thirty days, as the Commission should prescribe, and penalties began to take effect from the date fixed by the Commission, unless the carrier secured an injunction from the Court suspending the order. Such injunction might not issue except after hearing, of which five days’ notice must be given. Decisions of the Commission were not revie wable by the Court unless the Commission had exceeded its authority, or had issued an unconstitutional order.
A new and important act was signed by the President on the 18th of June 1910. It created a Commerce Court (composed of five judges nominated by the president of the United States from the Federal circuit judges), transferred to it jurisdiction in cases instituted to enforce or set aside orders of the Inter-State Commerce Commission, and made the United States instead of the Commission a party in all such actions. The law forbids a railway or any other common carrier to charge more for a short haul than for a long haul over the same line, unless, in special cases, it is authorized to do so by the Commission. It forbids a railway which has reduced its rates while in competition with a water route to raise them again when the competition has ceased, unless the Commission permits it to do so because of other changed conditions. It extends the initiative of the Commission from the investigation of complaints to the investigation of rates on its own motion; authorizes it to suspend rates in advance of their going into effect, pending an investigation which may be continued for ten months, and to establish through routes; and provides for a special commission, appointed by the President, to investigate questions pertaining to the issuance of railway securities.
Bibliography.—See A. T. Hadley, Railroad Transportation (New York, 1885); B. H. Meyer, Railway Legislation in the United States (New York, 1903); F. A. Cleveland and F. W. Powell, Railroad Promotion and Capitalization in the United States (New York, 1909); L. H. Haney, A Congressional History of Railways (2 vols., Madison, Wis., 1908 and 1910); Elkins Committee Report (1905); F. H. Dixon,
The Interstate Commerce Act as Amended,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, xxL 22 (Nov. 1906); F. H. Dixon, “ Recent Railroad Commission Legislation,” Political Science Quarterly, xx. 612 (Dec. 1905).    (F. H. D.*)
Accident Statistics
Statistics of railway accidents may be divided into three classes: casualties (a) to passengers, (£) to servants or etnployés and (c) to other persons; and again into (1) train accidents,
(2)    accidents to persons doing work on or about trains and
(3)    other accidents.
Such statistics are studied mainly with the object of learning the lessons which they may afford as to preventive measures for the future; and from this point of view the most important element is the single item of passengers killed in train accidents (a 1). The number injured is, indeed, a fact of interest, no less than the number killed, but comparisons under this head are unsatisfactory because it is impracticable or unprofitable to go into sufficient detail to determine the relative seriousness of the injuries. The statistics of the killed usually afford all necessary stimulus to improvement. Accidents to passengers other than those caused by collisions or derailments of trains are very largely due to causes which it is fair to class either as unavoidable or as due mainly to the fault or carelessness of the victim himself. That this is so is indicated by the fact that, although the railways—always niade to suffer severely in pecuniary damages for injuries for which their officers or servants are held responsible by the courts—have for years taken almost every conceivable precaution, the number of accidents, in proportion to the number of persons travelling, diminishes but slowly—so slowly that, in view of the variety of conditions to be considered, it would hardly be safe to conclude that the diminution is due to any definite improvement in the safeguards provided. Collisions, on the other hand, are preventable, and derailments nearly so, and the records of deaths and injuries in this class in successive years are therefore justly taken as an index to the efficiency with which the railways are managed.
The number of servants killed in train accidents is the next in importance. The safety of passengers is, indeed, the first care of the railway manager; but the employés, exposed to many risks from which the passengers are protected, must be looked after. On the British railways the men who run the trains are safeguarded very efficiently, and the collisions and derailments which are serious enough to do injury to the trainmen or the enginemen are really rare. The roadway, tracks and rolling stock are so well maintained that those causes which lead to the worst derailments have been eliminated almost completely, and the record of serious collisions has been reduced nearly to zero by the universal use of the block system and by systematic precautions at junctions. In America the record is far less satisfactory. The best railways of the United States and Canada have, indeed, been greatly improved, and their main lines approach the high standards of safety which prevail in Great Britain, both as regards maintenance and care of roadway and vehicles (as a preventive of derailments) and the use of the block system (as a preventive of collisions); but when the inquirer looks at America as a whole—the total length of lines in the United States being over 230,000 m., ten times the total of the United Kingdom—he is considering a figure which includes an enormous mileage of railway lying in thinly settled regions where the high standards of safety maintained on the best railways have scarcely been thought of. The duty of a railway with deficient plant or facilities would seem to be to make up for their absence by moderating the speeds of its trains, but public sentiment in America appears so far to have" approved, at least tacitly, the combination of imperfect railways and high speeds.
Apart from collisions and derailments, a large proportion of all accidents is found to be due primarily to want of care on the part of the victims. Accidents to workmen in marshalling, shunting, distributing and running trains, engines and cars, may be taken as the most important class, after train accidents, because this work is necessary and important and yet involves considerable hazard. On British railways the duty of the companies to provide all practicable safeguards and to educate and caution the servants may be said to have been faithfully performed, and the accident totals must be taken as being somewhat near the “ irreducible minimum” —unless some of the infirmities of the human mind can be cured. In America the number of men killed and injured in handling freight trains has been very large. In the year ending June 30, 1909, exclusive of casualties due to collisions, derailments and other accidents to trains, the number killed was 811 and of injured 28,156 (Accident Bulletin, No. 32, p. 14). The number killed (811) is equal to about three in every thousand trainmen employed. From this and all other causes, the number of trainmen killed in the year ending June 30, 1909, was about 8 in 1000.
The use of automatic couplers for freight cars throughout the United States, introduced in 1893-1900, greatly reduced the number of deaths and injuries in coupling, and the use of air brakes on freight cars, now universal, has reduced the risk to the men by making it less necessary for them to ride on the roofs of high box-cars, while at the same time it has made it possible to run long trains with fewer men; but except in these two features the freight service in America continues to be a dangerous occupation. The high and heavy cars, the high speeds, the severe weather in the northern states in winter, the fluctuating nature of the business, resulting often in the employment of poorly qualified men and in other irregularities, are among the causes of this state of things.
Being struck or run over by a train while standing or walking on the track is the largest single cause of “ railway accidents.” Workmen are killed and injured in this way, both while on duty and when going to and from their work; passengers, with or without right, go in front of trains at stations and at highway crossings at grade level; and trespassers are killed and injured in large numbers on railways everywhere, at and near stations, at crossings, and out on the open road, where they have no shadow of right. Of trespassers the number killed per' mile of
line is about as large in England as in America, the density of population and of traffic in Great Britain apparently counterbalancing the laxity of the laws against trespassing in America. In the thickly settled parts of the United States the number of trespassers killed on the railway tracks, including vagrants who sufTer in collisions and derailments while stealing rides, is very large. In New York and four adjacent states, having about as many miles of railway as the United Kingdom, the number in the year ending June 30, 1907, was 1552. In the United Kingdom the number for the corresponding year was 447, or less than one-third.
As was suggested at the outset, railway accident statistics are useful only as showing how to make life and limb safer, though in pursuing this object increased economy should also be secured. Railways have always been held by the legislatures and by the courts strictly accountable for their shortcomings, so far as accountability can be enforced by compelling the payment of damages to victims of accidents; but in spite of this, a want of enterprise and even some apparent neglect of passengers* and servants* plain rights, have often been apparent, and the Board of Trade, with its powers of supervision, inspection and investigation, must therefore be classed as one of the most beneficent factors in the promotion of safety on British railways. Its powers have been exercised with the greatest caution, yet with consistent firmness; and the publicity which has been given to the true and detailed causes of scores and scores of railway accidents by the admirable reports of the Board of Trade inspectors has been a powerful lever in improving the railway service. Useful compulsory laws regarding the details of train management are difficult to frame and hard to carry out; but the Board has exercised a persistent persuasiveness and has secured most of its objects. Its investigations justified the law making the block system compulsory, thus removing the worst danger of railway travel. Its constant and impartial expositions of cases of over-work and insufficient training of employes have greatly helped to elevate the character of these employes.
In the United States the governments have done far less. A majority of the states have railway commissions, but the investigation of railway accidents, with comparatively few exceptions, has not been done in such a way as to make the results 1 useful in promoting improved practice. Many of the commissions have done little or nothing of value in this respect. The Federal government, having authority in railway matters only when interstate traffic is affected, gathers statistics and publishes them; but in the airing of causes—the field in which the British Board of Trade has been so useful—nothing so far has been done except to require written reports monthly from the railways. These are useful so far as they go, but they lack the impartiality that would be secured by an inquiry such as is held in England.
The casualties enumerated in items 1, 4 and 7 of Table X. aggregate 6 killed and 454injured; the six deaths were due to collisions, while of the cases of injury 372 occurred by collisions, 47 by derailments, and 35 by other accidents to trains. This undoubtedly is the greatest record for train safety ever known in the world. Item^i shows no passengers killed in train accidents during the year.^ This was the case once before, in 1901; and the total of fatal accidents to passengers and servants, taken together, has in several years been very low (1896, eight; 1901, eight; 1902, ten; 1904, thirteen), but never before was it down to six.
Items 2 and 5 in Table X. are made up of the classes of accidents shown in Table XI.
Table XII. analyses the classes of accident comprised in items 3 and 6 of Table X.
Percentages.—On British railways the casualties from train accidents, especially fatal injuries, have been reduced to so small a proportion of the number of passengers travelling, or the number of
servants employed, that the figures showing the percentages vary from year to year considerably; but in other classes of accidents, in which a large proportion of the cases may be classed asunprevent-able, the percentages do not vary greatly. The following are the more significant ratios in the year 1907, as shown in the Board of Trade returns:—
Railway Accidents in America.—The statistics of accidents in America are kept in a form somewhat different from the foregoing. Table XIV. is taken from the Accident Bulletin of the Interstate Commerce Commission (No. 32), the items being numbered to correspond as nearly as practicable with the numbers in the British table (No. X.). The items 7-8 embrace the statistics which most nearly correspond to the items 7-12 in the British table.
The salient feature of Table XIV. is the diminution from 1908 to 1909. This is mainly due to a great falling off in traffic, because of a general business depression; from 1907 to 1909 the reduction in the accident record is still greater. In items 1 and 4 the increase in safety is due in part, no doubt, to the extension of the use of the block system. The accidents to " other persons ” cannot readily be compared with items 7-12 in the British record, except as to the totals and a few of the items.
In any comparison ^ between British and American records the first point to be borne in mind is the difference in mileage and traffic. The American railways aggregate approximately ten times the length of the British lines; but in train miles the difference is far less. In the latest years in which comparisons can be made, the passenger journeys in the United Kingdom amounted to 1500 millions (including season-ticket holders, estimated) and the train miles to 428-3 millions, while the corresponding figures in the United States were 873-9 millions and 1171-9 millions. The average length
of the passenger's journey in the United States is reported to be about 32 m.; in Great Britain it is undoubtedly jess, but no record is published. Of the total train mileage in America more than half is freight; in Great Britain much more than half is passenger.
Table XV. shows the casualties on American railways in 1907 and 1008 (year ending June 30). These figures differ from those in Table XIV. because of differences in classification. In Table XIV. the item " passengers killed " includes those on some electric railways, which presumably are not covered in the statement here given; also passengers in freight trains, &c. Under " employees M  this table includes men in shops, &c., not shown in Table XIV.
In 1907 one passenger in 2,318,051 was killed, and one in 107,001 was injured, in train accidents. The number of employis killed in train accidents was 12-9 in 10 million train miles. Of train men (including engine-drivers and firemen), one out of 125 employed was killed (all causes), and one in eight injured.
The great differences between the records of the United States and the United Kingdom seem to afford justification for the view, which has often been expressed, that in America the spirit of hurry and recklessness manifest in many of the activities of the people prevails even among the men on whom rests the grave responsibility of running trains in safety. Yet the best safety devices arc made in America, and means of reducing these death records are well known.
France.—Railway accidents in France are recorded in a shape somewhat different from that found in either Great Britain or America. The principal items for the years 1906 and 1907 are shown in Table XVI. The length of railways in the republic was 39,963 km. (24,832 m.), the number of persons employed on them was rather less than 300,000, the number of passengers carried annually being between 450 and 500 millions. The number of passengers (36) killed in train accidents in 1907 was equal to 0-0759 Per million passengers carried and 0-0024 per million kilometres travelled by passengers, or 0-1503 per million kilometres travelled by trains.
The most significant item in the table, 36 passengers killed in train accidents, is perhaps to be considered as abnormally large, the totals under this head for the preceding six years beginning with 19o1 being 7, 35, 3, 18, 4, 14, or an average of 11-57 per year. The French secretary of Public Works, who has furnished these statistics, keeps also similar records of the local or light railways, on which the number of fatal accidents appears to be exceedingly small.
Germany.—The number of persons killed on the railways of the German Empire in the year 1907 was 1249, classified as in Table XVII. This number does not include suicides and attempts at suicide, of which there were 333, all but 24 being successful. In these statistics, the third item, “ other persons,” includes post office and customs officials and other persons connected with the railway service, as well as railway officers and servants off duty. The totals of passengers killed and
injured in train accidents are not separated from those killed and injured from other causes, but ratios are given showing that for four years no passengers were killed in this class.
See the Quarterly and Annual Reports, issued by the Board of Trade, London, and the Annual Statistical Reports and Quarterly Accident Bulletins, published by the Interstate Commerce Commission, Washington.    (B. B. A.)
Financial Organization
The methods of financing railway enterprises, both new projects and existing lines, have been influenced very largely by the attitude of the state and of municipal authorities. Railways may be built for military reasons or for commercial reasons, or for a combination of the two. The Trans-Siberian railway was a military necessity if Russia was to exercise dominion throughout Siberia and maintain a port on the Yellow Sea or the Sea of Japan. The Union Pacific railroad was a military necessity to the. United States if the authority of the national government was to be maintained in the Far West. The cost of such ventures and the detailed methods by which they are financed are of relatively small importance, because they are not required to earn a money return on the investment. To a less degree, the same is true of railways built for a special instead of a general commercial interest. The Baltimore & Ohio railroad was built to protect and further the commercial interests of the city of Baltimore; the Cincinnati Southern railway is still owned by the city of Cincinnati, which built the line in the ’seventies for commercial protection against Louisville, Ky. From a commercial point of view such ventures are differentiated from railway projects built for general commercial reasons because they do not depend on their own credit. The government, national or local, furnishes the borrowing power, and makes the best bargain it can with the men it designates to operate the line.
Where a railway is built for general commercial reasons, however, it must furnish its own credit; that is to say, it must convince investors that it can be worked profitably and give them an assured return on the funds they advance. The state is interested in the commercial railway venture as a matter of public policy, and because it can confer or withold the right of eminent domain, without which the railway builder would be subjected to endless annoyance and expense. This governmental sanction has been obtainable only with difficulty, and after the exercise of numerous legal forms, in Great Britain and on the continent of Europe. In the United States, on the other hand, it has been obtained with considerable ease. In the earlier years of American railway building, each project was commonly the subject of a special law; then special laws were in turn succeeded by general railway laws in the several states, and these in turn have come to be succeeded in most parts of the country by jurisdiction vested in the state railway commission. Each of these changes has tended to improve the existing status, to legitimize railway enterprise, and to safeguard capital or investment.
The law's regulating original outputs for capital were strictly drawn in Great Britain and on the continent of Europe; in America they were drawn very loosely. As a result it has been far easier for the American than for the European railway builder to take advantage of the speculative instinct in obtaining money. Instead of the borrowing power being restricted to a small percentage of the total capital, as in European countries, most of the railway mileage of America has been built with borrowed money, represented by bonds, while stock has been given freely as an inducement to subscribe to the bonds on the
theory that the bonds represented the cost of the enterprise, and the stock the prospective profits. As a natural result weak railway companies in the United States have frequently been declared insolvent by the courts, owing to their inability in periods of commercial depression to meet their acknowledged obligations, and in the reorganization which has followed the shareholders have usually had to accept a loss, temporary or permanent.
The situation in Great Britain has been wholly different. The debt in that country is relatively small in amount, and is not represented by securities based upon hypothecation of the company’s real property, as with the American railway bond, resting on a first, second or third mortgage. But British share capital has been issued so freely for extension and improvement work of all sorts, including the costly requirements of the .Board of Trade, that a situation has been reached where the return on the outstanding securities tends to diminish year by year. Although this fact will not in itself make the companies liable to any process of reorganization similar to that following insolvency and foreclosure of the American railway, it is probable that reorganization of some sort must nevertheless take place in Great Britain, and it may well be questioned whether the position of the transportation system of that country, would not have been better if it had been built up and projected on the experience gained by actual earlier losses, as in the United States.
Thus the characteristic defect in the British railway organization has been the tendency to put out new capital at a rate faster than has been warranted by the annual increases in earnings. The American railways do not have to face this situation; but, after a long term of years, when they were allowed to do much as they pleased, they have now been brought sharply to book by almost every form of constituted authority to be found in the states, and they are suffering from increased taxation, from direct service requirements, and from a general tendency on the part of regulating authorities to reduce rates and to make it impossible to increase them. Meantime, the purchasing power of the dollar which the railway company receives for a specified service is gradually growing smaller, owing to the general increases year by year in wages and in the cost of material. The railways are prospering because they are managed with great skill and are doing increasing amounts of business, though at lessening unit profits. But there is danger of their reaching the point where there is little or no margin between emit costs of service and unit receipts for the service. It will probably be inevitable for American railway rates to trend somewhat upward in the future, as they have gradually declined in the past; but the process apparently cannot be accomplished without considerable friction with the governing authorities. The attitude of the courts is not that the railways should work without compensation, but that the compensation should not exceed a fair return on funds actually expended by the railway. This is in line with the provisions in the Constitution of the United States regarding the protection of property, but the difficulty in applying the principle to the railway situation lies in the· fact that costs have to be met by averaging the returns on the total amount of business done, and it is often impossible, in specific instances, to secure a rate which can be considered to yield a fair return on the specific service rendered. Hence losses in one quarter must be compensated by gains in another—a process which the law, regarding only the gains, renders very difficult.
The growth of railways has been accompanied by a world-wide tendency toward the consolidation of small independent ventures into large groups of lines able to aid one another in the exchange of traffic and to effect economies in administration and in the purchase of supplies. Both in England and in America this process of consolidation has been obstructed by all known legislative devices, because of the widespread belief that competition in the field of transportation was necessary if fair prices were to be charged for the service. But the general tendency to regulate rates by authority of the state has apparently rendered unnecessary the old plan of rate regulation through competition, even if it had not been demonstrated often and again that this form of regulation is costly for all concerned and is effective only during rare periods of direct conflict between companies. Nevertheless, in spite of difficulties, consolidation has gone on with great rapidity. When Mr E. H. Harriman died he exercised direct authority over more than 50,000 m. of railway, and the tendency of all the great American railway systems, even when not tied to one another in common ownership, is to increase their mileage year by year by acquiring tributary lines. The smaller company exchanges its stock for stock of the larger system on an agreed basis, or sells it outright, and the bondholders of the absorbed line often have a similar opportunity to exchange their securities for obligations of the parent company, which are on a stronger basis or have a broader market. Similarly in Great Britain there is a tendency towards combination by mutual agreement among the companies while they still preserve their independent existence.
Table XVIII. shows the paid-up capital, gross receipts, net receipts and proportion of net receipts to total paid-up capital on the railways of the United Kingdom for a series of years.
Construction
Location.—An ideal line of railway connecting two terminal points would be perfectly level and perfectly straight, because in that case the resistance due to gradients and curves would be eliminated (see § Locomotive Power) and the cost of mechanical operation reduced to a minimum. But that ideal is rarely if ever attainable. In the first place the route of a railway must be governed by commercial considerations. Unless it be quite short, it can scarcely ever be planned simply to connect its two terminal points, without regard to the intervening country; in order to be of the greatest utility and to secure the greatest revenue it must be laid out with due consideration of the traffic
arising at intermediate places, and as these will not usually lie exactly on the direct line, deviations from straightness will be rendered necessary. In the second place, except in the unlikely event of all the places on the selected route lying at the same elevation, a line that is perfectly level is a physical impossibility; and from engineering considerations, even one with uniform gradients will be impracticable on the score of cost, unless the surface of the country is extraordinarily even. In these circumstances the constructor has two broad alternatives between which to choose. On the one hand he may make the line follow the natural inequalities of the ground as nearly as may be, avoiding the elevations and depressions by curves; or on the other he may aim at making it as nearly straight and level as possible by taking it through the elevations in cuttings or tunnels and across the depressions on embankments or bridges. He will incline to the first of these alternatives when cheapness of first cost is a desideratum, but, except in unusually favourable circumstances, the resulting line, being full of sharp curves and severe gradients, will be unsuited for fast running and will be unable to accommodate heavy traffic economically. If, however, cost within reasonable limits is a secondary consideration and the intention is to build a line adapted for express trains and for the carriage of the largest volume of traffic with speed and economy, he will lean towards the second. In practice every line is a compromise between these two extremes, arrived at by carefully balancing a large number of varying factors. Other things being equal, that route is best which mil serve the district most conveniently and secure the highest revenue; and the most favourable combination of curves and gradients is that by which the annual cost of conveying the traffic which the line will be called on to carry, added to the annual interest on the capital expended in construction, will be made a minimum.
Cuttings and Embankments.—A cutting, or cut, is simply a trench dug in a hill or piece of rising ground, wide enough at the bottom to accommodate one or more pairs of rails, and deep enough to enable the line to continue its course on the level or on a moderate gradient. The slopes of the sides vary according to the nature of the ground, the amount of moisture present, &c. In solid rock they may be vertical; in gravel, sand or common earth they must, to prevent slipping, rise i ft. for i to ii or 2 ft. of base, or even more in treacherous clay. In soft material the excavation may be performed by mechanical excavators or “ steam navvies,” while in hard it may be necessary to resort to blasting. Except in hard rock* the top width of a cutting, and therefore the amount of material to be excavated, increases rapidly with the depth; hence if a cutting exceeds a certain depth, which varies with the particular circumstances, it may be more economical, instead of forming the sides at the slope at which the material of which they are composed will stand, to make them nearly vertical and support the soil with a retaining wall, or to bore a tunnel. An embankment-bank, or fill, is the reverse of a cutting, being an artificial mound of earth on which the railway is taken across depressions in the surface of the ground. An endeavour is made so to plan the works of a railway that the quantity of earth excavated in cuttings shall be equal to the quantity required for the embankments; but this is not always practicable, and it is sometimes advantageous to obtain the earth from some source close to the embankment rather than incur the expense of hauling it from a distant cutting. As embankments have to support the weight of heavy trains, they must be uniformly firm and well drained, and before the line is fully opened for traffic they must be allowed time to consolidate, a process which is helped by running construction or mineral trains over them.
An interesting case of embankment and cutting in combination was involved in crossing Chat Moss on the Liverpool & Manchester railway. The moss was 4$ m. across, and it varied in depth from 10 to 30 ft. Its general character was such that cattle could not stand on it, and a piece of iron would sink in it. The subsoil was composed principally of clay and sand, and the railway had to be earned over the moss on the level, requiring cutting, and embanking for upwards of 4 m. In forming 277,000 cub. yds. of embankment 670,000 yds. 01 raw peat were consumed, the difference being occasioned by the squeezing out of the water. Large quantities of embanking were sunk in the moss, and, when the engineer, George Stephenson, after a month’s vigorous operations, had made up his estimates, the apparent work done was sometimes less than at the beginning of the month. The railway ultimately was made to float on the bog. Where embankment was required drains about 5 yds. apart were cut, and when the moss between them was dry it was used to form the embankment. Where the way was formed on the level, drains were cut on each side of the intended line, and were intersected here and there by cross drains, by which the upper "part of the moss was rendered dry and firm. On this surface hurdles were placed, 4 ft. broad and 9 long, covered with heath, upon which the ballast was laid.
Bridges.—For conveying small streams through embankments, channels or culverts arc constructed in brickwork or masonry. Larger rivers, canals, roads, other railways and sometimes deep narrow valleys are crossed by bridges (q.v.) of timber, brick, stone, wrought iron or steel, and many of these structures rank among the largest engineering works in the world. Sometimes also a viaduct consisting of a series of arches is preferred to an embankment when the line has to be taken over a piece of flat alluvial plain, or when it is desired to economize space and to carry the line at a sufficient height to clear the streets, as in the case of various railways entering London and other large towns. In connexion with a railway many bridges have also to be constructed to carry public roads and other railways over the line, and for the use of owners or tenants whose land it has cut through (“ accommodation bridges ”). In the early days of railways, roads were often taken across the line on the level, but such “ level ” or “ grade ” crossings are now usually avoided in the case of new lines in populous countries, except when the traffic on both the road and the railway is very light. In many instances old level crossings have been replaced by over-bridges with long sloping approaches; in this way considerable expenditure has been involved, justified, however, by the removal of a danger to the public and of interruptions to the traffic on both the roads and the railways. In cases where the route of a line runs across a river or other piece of water so wide that the construction of a bridge is either impossible or would be more costly than is warranted by the volume of traffic, the expedient is sometimes adopted of carrying the wagons and carriages across bodily with their loads on train ferries, so as to avoid the inconvenience and delay of transshipment. Such train ferries arc common in America, especially on the Great Lakes, and exist at several places in Europe, as in the Baltic between Denmark and Sweden and Denmark and Germany, and across the Straits of Messina.
Gradients.—The gradient or grade of a line is the rate at which it rises or falls, above or below the horizontal, and is expressed by stating either the horizontal distance in which the change of level amounts to 1 ft., or the amount of change that would occur in some selected distance, such as 100 ft., 1000 ft. or i m. In America a gradient of 1 in 100 is often known as a 1% grade, one of 2 in 100 as a 2% grade, and so on; thus a 0-25% grade corresponds to what in England would be known as a gradient of 1 in 400. The ruling gradient of a section of railway is the steepest incline in that section, and is so called because it governs or rules the maximum load that can be placed behind an engine working over that portion of line. Sometimes, however, a sharp incline occurring on an otherwise easy line is not reckoned as the ruling gradient, trains heavier than could be drawn up it by a single engine being helped by an assistant or “ bank ” engine; sometimes also “ momentum ” or “ velocity ” grades, steeper than the ruling gradient, are permitted for short distances in cases where a train can approach at full speed and thus surmount them by the aid of its momentum. An incline of 1 in 400 is reckoned easy, of 1 in 200 moderate and of τ in 100 heavy. The ruling gradient of the Liverpool & Manchester railway was fixed at τ in 900, excepting the inclines at Liverpool and at Rainhill summit, for working which special provision was made; and I. K. Brunei laid out the Great Western for a long distance
out of London'with a ruling gradient of i in 1320. Other engineers, however, such as Joseph Locke, cheapened the cost of construction by admitting long slopes of 1 in 80 or 70, One of the steepest gradients in England on an important line is the Lickey incline at Bromsgrove, on the Midland railway between Birmingham and Gloucester, where the slope is 1 in 37 for two miles. The maximum gradient possible depends on climatic conditions, a dry climate being the most favourable. The theoretical limit is about 1 in 16; between 1 in 20 and 1 in 16 a steam locomotive depending on the adhesion between its wheels and the rails can only haul about its own weight. In practice the gradient should not exceed 1 in 22J, and even that is too steep, since theoretical conditions cannot always be realized; a wet rail will reduce the adhesion, and the gradients must be such that some paying load can be hauled in all weathers. When an engineer has to construct a railway up a hill having a still steeper slope, he must secure practicable gradients by laying out the line in ascending spirals, if necessary tunnelling into the hill, as on the St Gothard railway, or in a series of zigzags, or he must resort to a rack or a cable railway.
Rack Railways.—In rack railways a cog-wheel on the engine engages in a toothed rack which forms part of the permanent way. The earliest arrangement of this kind was patented by John Blen-kinsop, of the Middleton Colliery, near Leeds, in 1811, and an engine built on his plan by Mathew Murray, also of Leeds, began in 1812 to haul coals from Middleton to Leeds over a line 3i m. long. Blen-kinsop placed the teeth on the outer side of one of the running rails, and his reason for adopting a rack was the belief that an engine with smooth wheels running on smooth rails would not have sufficient 'adhesion to draw the load required. It was not till more than half a century later that an American, Sylvester Marsh, employed the rack system for the purpose of enabling trains to surmount steep slopes on the Mount Washington railway, where the maximum gradient was nearly 1 in 2J. In this case the rack had pin teeth carried in a pair of angle bars. The subsequent development of rack railways is especially associated with a Swiss engineer, Nicholas Riggenbach, and his pupil Roman Abt, and the forms of rack introduced by them are those most commonly used. That of the latter is multiple, several rack-plates being placed parallel to each other, and the teeth break joint at i, i or J of their pitch, according to the number of rack-plates. In this way smbothness of working is ensured, the cog-wheel being constantly in action with the rack. Abt also developed the plan of combining rack and adhesional working, the engine working by adhesion alone on the gentler slopes but by both adhesion and the rack on the steeper ones. On such lines the beginning of a rack section is provided with a piece of rack mounted on springs, so that the pinions of the engine engage smoothly with the teeth. Racks of this type usually become impracticable for gradients steeper than 1 in 4, partly because of the excessive weight of the engine required and partly because of the tendency of the cog-wheel to mount the rack. The Locher rack, employed on the Mount Pilatus railway, where the steepest gradient is nearly 1 in 2, is double, with vertical teeth on each side, while in the St rub rack, used on the Jungfrau line, the teeth are cut in the head of a rail of the ordinary Vignoles type.
Cable Railways.—For surmounting still steeper slopes, cable railways may be employed. Of these there are two main systems: (1) a continuous cable is carried over two main drums at each end of the line, and the motion is derived cither (a) from the weight of the descending load or (6) from a motor acting on one of the main drums; (2) each end of the cable is attached to wagons, one set of which accordingly ascends as the other descends. The weight required to cause the downward motion is obtained either by means of the material which has to be transported to the bottom of the hill or by water ballast, while to aid and regulate the motion generally steam or electric motors are arranged to act on the main drums, round which the cable is passed with a sufficient number of turns to prevent slipping. When water ballast is employed the water is filled into a tank in the bottom of the wagon or car, its quantity, if passengers are carried, being regulated by the number ascending or descending.
Curves.—The curves on railways are either simple, when they consist of a portion of the circumference of a single circle, or compound, when they are made up of portions of the circumference of two or more circles of different radius. Reverse curves are compound curves in which the components are of contrary flexure, like the letter S; strictly the term is only applicable when the two portions follow directly one on the other, but it is sometimes used of cases in which they are separated by a “ tangent ” or portion of straight line. In Great Britain the curvature is defined by stating the length of
the radius, expressed in chains (i chain = 66 ft.), in America by stating the angle subtended by a chord 100 ft. long; the measurements in both methods are referred to the central line of the track. The radius of a i-degree curve is 5730 ft., or about 86f chains, of a 15-degree curve 383 ft. or rather less than 6 chains; the former is reckoned easy, the latter very sharp, at least for main lines on the standard gauge. On some of the earlier English main lines no curves were constructed of a less radius than a mile (80 chains), except at places where the speed was likely to be low, but in later practice the radius is sometimes reduced to 40 or 30 chains, even on high-speed passenger lines.
When a train is running round a curve the centrifugal force which comes into play tends to make its wheel-flanges press against the outer rail, or even to capsize it. If this pressure is not relieved in some way, the train may be derailed either (1) by “ climbing ” the outer rail, with injury to that rail and, generally, to the corresponding wheel-flanges; (2) by overturning about the outer rail as a hinge, possibly without injury to rails or wheels; or (3) by forcing the outer rail outwards, occasionally to the extent of shearing the spikes that hold it down at the curve, thus spreading or destroying the track. In any case the details depend upon whether the vehicle concerned is an engine, a wagon or a passenger coach, and upon whether it runs on bogie-trucks or not. If it is an engine, particular attention must be directed to the type, weight, arrangement of wheels and height of centre of gravity above rail level. In considering the forces that produce derailment the total mass of the vehicle or locomotive may be supposed to be concentrated at its centre of gravity. Two lines may be drawn from this point, one to each of the two rails, in a plane normal to the rails, and the ends of these lines, where they meet the rails, may be joined to complete a triangle, which may conveniently be regarded as a rigid frame resting on the rails. As the vehicle sweeps round the curve the centre of gravity tends to be thrown outwards, like a stone from a horizontal sling. The vertical pressure of the frame upon the outer rail is thus increased, while its vertical pressure on the inner rail is diminished. Simultaneously the frame as a whole tends to slide horizontally athwart the rails, from the inner towards the outer rail, urged by the same centrifugal forces. This sliding movement is resisted by placing a check rail on the inner side of the inner rail, to take the lateral thrust of the wheels on that side. It is also resisted in part by the conicity of the wheels, which converts the lateral force partly into a vertical force, thus enabling gravity to exert a restoring influence. When the lateral forces are too great to be controlled “ climbing ” occurs. Accidents due to simple climbing are, however, exceedingly rare, and are usually found associated with a faulty track, with “ plunging ” movements of the locomotive or vehicle, or with a “ tight gauge ” at curves or points.
From consideration of the rigid triangular frame described above, it is clear that the “ overturning ” force acts horizontally from the centre of gravity, and that the length of its lever arm is, at any instant, the vertical distance from the centre of gravity to the level of the outer rail. This is true whatever be the tilt of the vehicle at that instant. The restoring force exerted by gravity acts in a vertical line from the centre of gravity; and the length of its lever arm is the horizontal distance between this vertical line and the outer rail. If therefore the outer rail is laid at a level above that of the inner rail at the curve, overturning will be resisted more than would be the case if both rails were in the same horizontal plane, since the tilting of the vehicle due to this “ superelevation ” diminishes the overturning moment, and also increases the restoring moment, by shortening in the one case and lengthening in the other the lever arms at which the respective forces act. The amount of superelevation required to prevent derailment at a curve can be calculated@@1  under perfect running conditions, given the radius of curvature, the weight of the vehicle, the height of the centre of gravity, the distance between the rails, and the speed; but great experience
@@@1 See The Times Engineering Supplement (August 22, 1906), p. 265.
is required for the successful application of definite formulae to the problem. For example, what is a safe speed at a given curve for an engine, truck or coach having the load equally distributed over the wheels may lead to either climbing or overturning if the load is shifted to a diagonal position. An ill-balanced load also exaggerates “ plunging,” and if the period of oscillation of the load happens to agree with the changes of contour or other inequalities of the track vibrations of a dangerous character, giving rise to so-called “ sinuous ” motion, may occur.
In general it is not curvature, but change of curvature, that presents difficulty in the laying-out of a line. For instance, if the curve is of S-form, the point of danger is when the train enters the contra-flexure, and it is not an easy matter to assign * the best superelevation at all points throughout the double bend. Closely allied to the question of safety is the problem of preventing jolting at curves; and to obtain easy running it is necessary not merely to adjust the levels of the rails in respect to one another, but to tail off one curve into the next in such a manner as to avoid any approach to abrupt lateral changes of direction. With increase of speeds this matter has become important as an element of comfort in passenger traffic. As a first approximation, the centre-line of a railway may be plotted out as a number of portions of circles, with intervening straight tangents connecting them, when the abruptness of the changes of direction will depend on the radii of the circular portions. But if the change from straight to circular is made through the medium of a suitable curve it is possible to relieve the abruptness, even on curves of comparatively small radius. The smoothest and safest running is, in fact, attained when a “ transition,” “ easement ” or “ adjustment ” curve is inserted between the tangent and the point of circular curvature.
For further information see the following papers and the discussions on them: “Transition Curves for Railways,” by James Glover, Proc. Inst. C.E. vol. 140, part ii.; and “ High Speed on Railway Curves,” by J. W. Spiller, and “ ^ Practical Method for the Improvement of Existing Railway Curves,” by W. H. Shortt, Proc. Inst. C.E. vol. 176, part ii.
Gauge.—The gauge of a railway is the distance between the inner edges of the two rails upon which the wheels run. The width of 4 ft. 8J in. may be regarded as standard, since it prevails on probably three-quarters of the railways of the globe. In North America, except for small industrial railways and some short lines for local traffic, chiefly in mountainous country, it has become almost universal; the long lines of
3    ft. gauge have mostly been converted, or a third rail has been laid to permit interchange of vehicles, and the gauges of 5 ft. and more have disappeared. A considerable number of lines still Use
4    ft. 9 in., but as their rolling stock runs freely on the 4 ft. 8£ in. gauge and vice versa, this does not constitute a break of gauge for traffic purposes. The commercial importance of such free interchange of traffic is the controlling factor in determining the gauge of any new railway that is not isolated by its geographical position. In Great Britain railways are built to gauges other than 4 ft. 8| in. only under exceptional conditions; the old “ broad gauge ” of 7 ft. which I. K. Brunei adopted for the Great Western railway disappeared on the 2oth-23rd of May 1892, when the main line from London to Penzance was converted to standard gauge throughout its length. In Ireland the usual gauge is 5 ft. 3 in., but there are also lines laid to a
3    ft. gauge. On the continent of Europe the standard gauge is generally adopted, though in France there are many miles of
4    ft. 9 in. gauge; the normal Spanish and Portuguese gauge is, however, 5 ft. 5} in., and that of Russia 5 ft. In France and other European countries there is also an important mileage of metre gauge, and even narrower, on lines of local or secondary importance. In India the prevailing gauge is 5 ft. 6 in., but there is a large mileage of other gauges, especially metre. In the British colonies the prevailing gauge is 3 ft. 6 in., as in South Africa, Queensland, Tasmania and New Zealand; but in New South Wales the normal is 4 ft. 8J in. and in Victoria
5    ft. 3 in., communication between different countries of the
Australian Commonwealth being thus carried on under the disadvantage of break of gauge. Though the standard gauge is in use in Lower Egypt, the line into the Egyptian Sudan was built on a gauge of 3 ft. 6. in., so that if the so-called Cape to Cairo railway is ever completed, there will be one gauge from Upper Egypt to Cape Town. In South America the 5 ft. 6 in. gauge is in use, with various others.
Mono-Rail Systems.—The gauge may be regarded as reduced to its narrowest possible dimensions in mono-rail lines, where the weight of the trains is carried on a single rail. This method of construction, however, has been* adopted only to a very limited extent. In the Lartigue system the train is straddled over a single central rail, elevated a suitable distance above the ground. A short fine of this kind runs from Ballybunnion to Listowel in Ireland, and a more ambitious project on the same principle, on the plans of Air F. B. Behr, to connect Liverpool and Alanchester, was sanctioned by Parliament in 1901. In this case electricity was to be the motive-power, and speeds exceeding 100 m. an hour were to be attained, but the line has not been built. In the Langen mono-rail the cars are hung from a single overhead rail; a line on this system works between Barmen and Elberfeld, about 9 m., the cars for a portion of the distance being suspended over the river Wupper. In the system devised by Air Louis Brennan the cars run on a single rail laid on the ground, their stability being maintained by a heavy gyrostat revolving at great speed in a vacuum.
I Permanent Way.—When the earth-works of a line have been completed and the tops of the embankments and the bottoms of the cuttings brought to the level decided upon, the next step is to lay the permanent way, so-called probably in distinction to the temporary way used during construction. The first step is to deposit a layer of ballast on the road-bed or “ formation,” which often slopes away slightly on each side from the central line to facilitate drainage. The ballast consists of such materials as broken stone, furnace slag, gravel, cinders or earth, the lower layers commonly consisting of coarser materials than the top ones, and its purpose is to provide a firm, well-drained foundation in which the sleepers or crossties may be embedded and held in place, and by which the weight of the track and the trains may be distributed over the road-bed. Its depth varies, according to the traffic which the line has to bear, from about 6 in. to 1 ft. or rather more under the sleepers, and the materials of the surface layers are often chosen so as to be more or less dustless. Its width depends on the numbers of tracks and their gauge; for a double line of standard gauge it is about 25 ft., a space of 6 ft. (“ six-foot way ”) being left between the inner rails of each pair in Great Britain (fig. 8), and a rather larger distance in America
Jf 3    *1<------5*2-----_____' '_____
iS* - - - - - ------ -12 V-. -.. — . — - - ►!
Fig. 8.—Half of English Double Track.
(fig. 9), where the over-hang of the rolling stock is greater. The intervals between the sleepers are filled in level with ballast,
S---3 0"----->}«------4 eH*----^>|<----s'eK"---->[
f    .    * *    · ii*
'r*
------------------------------.
Fig. 9.—Half of American Double Track.
which less commonly is also heaped up over them, especially at the projecting ends.    .    . ]
Sleepers, called ties or cross-ties in America, are the blocks or slabs on which the rails are carried. They are nearly always placed transversely, across the direction of the lines, the longitudinal position such as was adopted in connexion with the broad gauge on the Great Western in England having been abandoned except in special cases. Stone blocks were tried as sleepers in the early days of railways, but they proved too rigid, and besides, it was found difficult to keep the line true with them. Wood is the material most widely used, but steel is employed in some countries where timber is scarce or liable to destruction by white ants, though it is still regarded as too expensive in comparison with wood for general adoption. Steel sleepers were used experimentally on the London & North-Western, but were abandoned owing to the shortness of their life. In Germany, where they have met with greater favour, there were over 26$ millions in use in 1905,@@1 and they have been tried by some American railways. Numerous forms of ferro-concrete sleepers have also been devised.
In Great Britain, Germany and France, at least 90% of the wooden sleepers are “ treated ” before they are laid, to increase their resistance to decay, and the same practice is followed to some extent in other European countries. A great number of preservative processes have been devised. In that most largely used, known as “ creosoting,” dead oil of tar, to the amount of some 3 gallons per sleeper, is forced into the wood under pressure, or is sucked in by vacuum, both the timber and the oil being heated. In the United States only a small percentage of the ties are treated in any way beyond seasoning in the open air, timber, in the opinion of the railway officials, being still too cheap in nearly all parts of that country to justify the use of preservatives. Some railway companies, however, having a long mileage in timberless regions, do E< treat ” their sleepers.
Typical dimensions for sleepers on important British railways ire:—length 9 ft., breadth 10 in., and depth 5 in. In America 3 ft. is the most common length, the breadth being 8 in., and the depth 6 or 7 in.
There are two main ways of attaching the rails to the sleepers, corresponding to two main types of rails—the bull-headed rail and the Vignoles or flange rail. In the first method, which is practically universal in Great Britain and is also employed to
@@@1 See a full account of steel sleepers in a paper read by A. Haar-mann before the Verein der Deutschen Eisenhüttenleute on Dec. 8, 1907, translated in the Railway Gazette (London) on April 10 and 17, 1908.
some extent in France and India, the rails have rounded bases and are supported by being wedged, with wooden keys, in cast-iron chairs which are bolted to -the sleepers. In the second method the rails have flat flanged bases which rest directly on the sleepers (fig. io). The chairs on the British system weigh about 45 or 50 lb each on important lines, though they may be less where the traffic is light, and are fixed to the sleepers each by two, three or four fastenings, either screw spikes, or round drift bolts entered in holes previously bored, or fang bolts or wooden trenails. Sometimes a strip of felt is interposed between the chair and the sleeper, and sometimes a serrated surface is prepared on the sleeper for the chair which is forced into its seat by hydraulic pressure. The keys which hold the rail in the chairs are usually of oak and are placed outside the rails; the inside position has also been employed, but has the disadvantage of detracting from the elasticity of the road since the weight of a passing train presses the rails up against a rigid mass of metal instead of against a slightly yielding block of wood. The rails, which for heavy main line traffic may weigh as much as r00 lb per yard, or eVen more, are rolled in lengths of from 30 to 60 ft., and sleepers are placed under them at intervals of between 2 and 3 ft. (centre to centre), 11 sleepers to a 30 ft. rail being a common arrangement. On the London & North-Western railway there are 24 sleepers to each 60 ft. rail. A small space is left between the end of one rail and that of the next, in order to allow for expansion in hot weather, and at the joint the two are firmly braced together by a pair of fish-plates (fig.n). These are flat bars of iron or steel from r8 in. to 2 ft. long, which are lodged in the channels of the rail, one on each side, and secured with four bolts passing through the web; sometimes, to give additional stiffness, they extend down below the lower table of the rail and are bent round so as to clip it. Occasionally the joints thus formed are “ supported ” on a sleeper, as was the practice in the early days of railway construction, fmt they are generally “ suspended ” between two sleepers, which are set rather more closely together than at other points in the rail. Preferably, they are so arranged that those in both lines of rails come opposite each other and are placed between the same pair of sleepers.
Flat-bottomed rails are fastened to the sleepers by hookheaded spikes, the heads of which project over the flanges. In the United States the spikes are simply driven in with a maul, and the rails stand upright, little care being taken to prepare seats for them on the sleepers, on which they soon seat themselves. The whole arrangement is simple and cheap in first cost, and it lends itself admirably to fast track-laying and to repairs and changes of line. On the continent of Europe the practice is common of notching the sleeper so as to give the rail a slight cant inwards—a result obtained in England by canting the rail in the chairs—and metal plates or strips of felt are put under the rail, which is carefully fastened to the sleeper by screwed spikes (fig. 12). This method of construction is more expensive than the American in first cost, but it gives a more durable and stable track. Such metal plates, or “ tie-plates,” have come into considerable use also in the United States, where they are always made of rolled steel, punched with rectangular holes through which the spikes pass. They serve two principal
purposes: they diminish the wear of the sleeper under the rail by providing a larger bearing surface, and they help to support the spikes and so to keep the gauge. On all the accepted forms there are two or more flanges at the bottom, running lengthwise of the plate and crosswise of the rail; these are requisite to give proper stiffness, and further, as they are forced into the tie by the weight of passing traffic, they help to fix the plate securely in place. The joints of flanged rails are similar to those employed with bull-headed rails. Various forms, mostly patented, have been tried in the United States, but the one most generally adopted consists of two symmetrical angle bars (fig. 13), varying in length (from 20 to 48 in.), in weight and in the number of bolts, which may be four or six.
The substitution of steel for iron as the material for rails which' made possible the axle' loads and the speeds of to-day, and, by reducing the cost of maintenance, contributed enormously to the economic efficiency of railways, was one of the most important events in the histoiy of r^ways, and a scarcely less important element of progressive economy has been the continued improvement of the steel rail in stiffness of section and in toughness and hardness of material. Carbon is the important element in controlling hardness, and the amount present is in general higher in the United States than in Great Britain. The specifications for bull-headed rails issued by the British Engineering Standards Committee in 1904 provided for a carbon-content ranging from 0*35 to 0-50%, with a phosphorus maximum of 0-075%. In the United States a committee of the American Society of Civil Engineers, appointed to consider the question of rail manufacture in consequence of an increase in the number of rail-failures, issued an interim report in 1907 in which it suggested a range of carbon from 0-55 to 0-65% for the heaviest sections of Bessemer steel flange rails, with a phosphorus maximum of 0-085%; while the specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials, current at the same period, put the carbon limits at 0-45 to 0-55%, and the phosphorus limit at o-io. For rails of basic open-hearth steel, which is rapidly ousting Bessemer steel, the Civil Engineers’ specifications allowed from 0-65 to 0-75% of carbon with 0-05% of phosphorus, while the specifications of the American Railway Engineering and Maintenance of Way Association provided for a range of 0*75 to 0-85% of carbon, with a maximum of 0-03% of phosphorus. The rail-failures mentioned above also drew renewed attention to the importance of the thermal treatment of the steel from the time of melting to the last passage through the rolling mill and to the necessity of the finishing temperature being sufficiently low if the product is to be fine grained, homogeneous and tough; and to permit of this requirement being met there was a tendency to increase the thickness of the metal in the web and flanges of the rails. The standard specification adopted by the Pennsylvania railway in 1908 provided that in rails weighing 100 lb to the yard 41 % of the metal should be in the head, i8-6% in the web, and 40-4% in the base, while for 85 lb rails 42-2% was to be in the head, 17-8% in the web and 40-0% in the base. These rails were to be rolled in 33-ft. lengths. According to the specification for 85 lb rails adopted by the Canadian Pacific railway about the same time, 36-77% of the metal was to be in the head, 22-21 % in the web and 41-02% in the base.
Points and Crossings.—To enable trains to be transferred from one pair of rails to another pair, as from the main line to a siding, “ points ” or “ switches ” are provided. At the place where the four rails come together, the two inner ones (one of the main line and the other of the siding), known as “ switch rails ” (δ, fig. 14), are tapered to a fine point or tongue, and rigidly connected together at such a distance apart that when one of the points is pressed against the outer or “stock”
rail (a) of either the siding or the main line there is sufficient space between the other tongue and the other stock rail to permit the free passage of the flanges of the wheels on one side of the train, while the flanges on the other side find a continuous path along the other switch rail and thus are deflected in the desired direction. The same arrangement is employed at junctions where different running lines converge. The points over which a train travels when directed from the main to a branch line are called “ facing points ”    (FP),
while those which it passes when running from a branch to a main line arc “ trailing points ” (TP).
In Great Britain the Board of Trade requires facing points to be avoided as far as possible; but, of course, they are a necessity at junctions where running lines diverge and at the crossing places which must be provided to enable trains to pass each other on single-track lines. At stations the points that give access to sidings are generally arranged as trailing points with respect to the direction of traffic on the main lines; that is, trains cannot pass direct into sidings, but have to stop and then run backwards into them. In shunting yards the points are commonly set in the required direction by means of hand levers placed close beside the lines, but those at junctions and those which give access from the main lines to sidings at wayside stations are worked by a system of rods from the signal cabin, or by electric or pneumatic power controlled from it and interlocked with the signals (see Signal: § Railway). Crossings are inevitable adjuncts of points. Where a branch diverges from a main line, one rail of the one must cross one rail of the other, and a V-crossing is formed (V). Where, as at a double-line junction, one pair of rails crosses another pair, “diamond” crossings (D) are formed. At both types of crossing, check rails (c) must be provided to guide the wheel-flanges, and if these are not accurately placed the safety of the trains will be endangered. At double-line junctions trains passing over the diamond crossings evidently block traffic going in the opposite direction to that in which they are travelling. To avoid the delay thus caused the branch line which would occasion the diamond crossing if it were taken across on the level is sometimes carried over the main line by an over-bridge (“ flying junction ”) or under it by an under-bridge (“ burrowing junction”).
Railway Stations.—Railway stations are either “ terminal ” or “ intermediate.” A terminal station embraces (1) the passenger station; (2) the goods station; (3) the locomotive, carriage and waggon depots, where the engines and the carrying stock are kept, cleaned, examined and repaired. At many intermediate stations the same arrangements, on & smaller scale, are made; in all of them there is at least accommodation for the passenger and the goods traffic. The stations for
passengers and goods are generally in different and sometimes in , distant positions, the place selected for each being that which is most- convenient for the traffic. The passenger station abuts on the main line, or, at termini, forms the natural terminus, at a place as near as can conveniently be obtained to the centre of the population which constitutes the passenger traffic; and preferably its platforms should be at or near the ground level, for convenience of access. The goods station is approached by a siding or fork set off from the main line at a point short of the passenger station. In order to keep down the expense of shunting the empty trains and engines to and from the platforms the carriage and locomotive depots should be as near the passenger station as possible; but often the price of land renders it impracticable to locate them in the immediate vicinity and they are to be found at a distance of several miles.
In laying out the approaches and station yard of a passenger station ample width and space should be provided, with well-defined means of ingress and egress to facilitate the circulation of vehicles and with a long setting-down pavement to enable them to discharge their passengers and luggage without delay. The position of the main buildings *—ticket offices, waiting and refreshment-rooms, parcels offices, &c.—relative to the direction of the lines of rails may be used as a means of classifying terminal stations. They are placed either on the departure side parallel to the platform (“ side ” stations) or at right angles to the rails and platforms (“ end ” stations). Many large stations, however, are of a mixed type, and the offices are arranged in a fork between two or more series of platforms, or partly at the end and partly on one side. Where heavy suburban traffic has to be dealt with, the expedient is occasionally adopted of taking some of the lines round the end in a continuous loop, so that incoming trains can deposit their passengers at an underground platform and immediately proceed on their outward journey. Intermediate stations, like terminal ones, sheuld be convenient in situation and easy of approach, and, especially if they are important, should be on the ground level rather than on an embankment or in a cutting. The lines through them should be, if possible, straight and on the level; the British Board of Trade forbids them being placed on a gradient steeper than i in 260, unless it is unavoidable. Intermediate stations at the surface level are naturally constructed as side stations, and whether offices are provided on both sides or whether they are mainly concentrated on one will depend on local circumstances, the amount of the traffic, and the direction in which it preponderates. When the railway lies below the surface level the bulk of the offices are often placed on a bridge spanning the lines, access being given to the platforms by staircases or lifts, and similarly when the railway is at a high level the offices may be arranged under the lines. Occasionally on a double-track railway one platform placed between the tracks serves both of them; this “island” arrangement, as it is termed, has thè advantage that more tracks can be readily added without disturbance of existing buildings, but when it is adopted the exit from the trains is at the opposite side to that which is usual, and accidents have happened through passengers alighting at the usual side without noticing the absence of a platform. At stations on double-track railways which have a heavy traffic four tracks are sometimes provided, the two outside ones only having platforms, so that fast trains get a clear road and can pass slow ones that are standing in the station. In Great Britain, it may be noted, trains almost invariably keep to the left, whereas in most other countries right-handed running is the rule.
The arrangement and appropriation of the tracks in a station materially affect the economical and efficient working of the traffic. There must be a sufficient provision of sidings, connected with the running tracks by points, for holding spare rolling stock and to enable carriages to be added to or taken off trains and engines to be changed with as little delay as possible. At terminal stations, especially at such as are used by short-distance trains which arrive at and start from the same platform, a third track is often laid between a pair of platform tracks, so that the engine of a train which has arrived at the platform can pass out and place itself at the other end of the train, which remains undisturbed. At the new Victoria station (London) of the London, Brighton & South Coast railway—which is so long that two trains can stand end to end at the platforms—this system is extended so as to permit a train to start out from the inner end of a platform even though another train is occupying the outer end. One of the advantages of electric trains on the multiple control system is that they economize terminal accommodation, because they can be driven from either end indifferently, and therefore avoid the necessity for tracks by which engines can change from one end of the train to the other.
The platforms on British railways have a standard elevation of 3 ft. above rail level, and they are not now made less than 2\ ft. in height. In other countries they are generally lower; in the United States they are commonly level with, or only a few inches higher than, the top of the rails. They may consist of earth with a retaining wall along the tracks and with the surface gravelled or paved with stone or asphalt, or they may be constructed entirely of timber, or they may be formed of stone slabs supported on longitudinal walls. They should he of ample dimensions to accommodate the traffic—the British Board of Trade requires them to be not less than 6 ft. wide at small stations and not less than 12 ft. wide at large ones—and they should be as free as possible from obstructions, such as pillars supporting the roof. At intermediate stations the roofs are often carried on brackets fixed to the walls of the station buildings, and project only to the edge of the platforms. At larger stations where both the platforms and the tracks arc covered in, there are two broad types of construction, with many intermediate variations: the roof may either be comparatively low, of the “ ridge and furrow ” pattern, borne on a number of rows of pillars, or it may consist of a single lofty span extending clear across the area from the side walls. The advantage claimed for roofs formed with one or two large spans is that they permit the platforms and tracks to be readily rearranged at any time as required, whereas this is difficult with the other type, especially since the British Board of Trade requires the pillars to be not less than 6 ft. away from the edges of the platforms. On the other hand, wide spans are more expensive both in first cost and in maintenance, and there is the possibility of a failure such as caused the collapse in December 1905 of the roof of Charing Cross (S.E.R.) station, London, which then consisted of a single span. Whatever the pattern adopted for the roof, a sufficient portion of it must be glazed to admit light, and it should be so designed that the ironwork can be easily inspected and painted and the glass readily cleaned. For the illumination of large stations by night electric arc lamps are frequently employed, but some authorities favour high-pressure incandescent gas-lighting.
At busy stations separate tracks are sometimes appropriated to the use of fight engines and empty trains, on which they may be run between the platforms and the locomotive and carriage depots. A carriage depot includes sheds in which the vehicles are stored, arrangements for washing and cleaning them, and sidings on which they are marshalled into trains. At a locomotive depot the chief building is the “ running shed ” in which the engines are housed and cleaned. This may be rectangular in shape (“ straight ” shed), containing a series of parallel tracks on which the engines stand and which are reached by means of points and crossings diverging from a main track outside; or it may take a polygonal or circular form (round house or rotunda), the fines for the engines radiating from a turn-table which occupies the centre and can be rotated so as to serve any of the radiating lines. The second arrangement enables any particular engine to enter or leave without disturbing the other; but on the other hand an accident to the turn-table may temporarily imprison the whole of them. In both types pits are constructed between the rails
on which the engines stand to afford easy access for the inspection and cleaning of their mechanism. Machine shops are usually provided to enable minor repairs to be executed; the tendency, both in England and America, is to increase the amount of such repairing plant at engine sheds, thus lengthening the intervals between the visits of the engines to the main repairing shops of the railway. A locomotive depot further includes stores of the various materials required in working the engines, coal stages at which they are loaded with coal, and an ample supply of water. The quality of the last is a matter of great importance; when it is unsuitable, the boilers will suffer, and the installation of a water-softening plant may save more in the expenses of boiler maintenance than it costs to operate. The water cranes or towers which are placed at intervals along the railway to supply the engines with water require similar care in regard to the quality of the water laid on to them, as also to the water troughs, or track tanks as they are called in America, by which engines are able to pick up water without stopping. These consist of shallow troughs about 18 in. wide, placed between the rails on perfectly level stretches of line. When water is required, a scoop is lowered into them from below the engine, and if the speed is sufficient the water is forced up it into the tender-tanks. Such troughs were first employed on the London & North-Western railway in 1857 by John Ramsbottom, and have since been adopted on many other lines.
Goods stations vary in size from those which consist of perhaps a single siding, to those which have accommodation for thousands of wagons. At a small roadside station, where the traffic is of a purely local character, there will be some sidings to which horses and carts have access for handling bulk goods like coal, gravel, manure, &c., and a covered shed for loading and unloading packages and materials which it is undesirable to expose to the weather. The shed may have a single pair of rails for wagons running through it along one side of a raised platform, there being a roadway for carts on the other side; or if more accommodation is required there may be two tracks, one on each side of the platform, which is then approached by carts at the end. In either case the platform is fitted with a crane or cranes for lifting merchandise into and out of the wagons, and doors enable the shed to be used as a lock-up warehouse. In a large station the arrangements become much more complicated, the precise design being governed by the nature of the traffic that has to be served and by the physical configuration of the site. It is generally convenient to keep the inwards and the outwards traffic distinct and to deal with the two classes separately; at junction stations it may also be necessary to provide for the transfer of freight from one wagon to another, though the bulk of goods traffic is conveyed through to its destination in the wagons into which it was originally loaded. The increased loading space required in the sheds is obtained by multiplying the number and the length of lines and platforms; sometimes also there are short sidings, cut into the platforms at right angles to the lines, in which wagons are placed by the aid of wagon turn-tables, and sometimes the wagons are dealt with on two floors, being raised or lowered bodily from the ground level by lifts. The higher floors commonly form warehouses where traders may store goods which have arrived or are awaiting despatch. An elaborate organization is required to keep a complete check and record of all the goods entering and leaving the station, to ensure that they are loaded into the proper wagons according to their destination, that they are unloaded and sorted in such a way that they can be delivered to their consignees with the least possible delay, that they are not stolen or accidentally mislaid, &c.; and accommodation must be provided for a large. clerical and supervisory staff to attend to these matters. British railways also undertake the collection and delivery of freight, in addition to transporting it, and thus an extensive range of vans and wagons, whether drawn by horses or mechanically propelled, must be provided in connexion with an important station.
Shunting Yards.—It may happen that from a large station sufficient traffic may be consigned to certain other large stations to enable full train-loads to be made up daily, or several times a day, and despatched direct to their destinations. In general, however, the conditions are less simple. Though a busy colliery may send off its product by the train-load to an important town, the wagons will usually be addressed to a number of different consignees at different depots in different parts of the town, and therefore the train will have to be broken up somewhere short of its destination and its trucks rearranged, together with those of other trains similarly constituted, into fresh trains for conveyance to the various depots. Again, a station of moderate size may collect goods destined for a great variety of places but not in sufficient quantities to compose a full train-load for any of them, and then it becomes impossible, except at the cost of uneconomical working, to avoid despatching trains which contain wagons intended for many diverse destinations. For some distance these wagons will all travel over the same line, but sooner or later they will reach a junction-point where their ways will diverge and where they must be separated. At this point trains of wagons similarly destined for different places will be arriving from other lines, and hence the necessity will arise of collecting together from all the trains all the wagons which are travelling to the same place.
The problem may be illustrated diagrammatically as follows (fig* 15)· A may be supposed to be a junction outside a large seaport where branches from docks a, b, c and d converge, and where the main line also divides into three,1 [Igoing to B, C and D respectively. A train from a will contain some wagons for B, some for C and some for D, as will also the trains from a, bt c and d. At A therefore it becomes necessary to disentangle and group together all the wagons that are intended for B, all that are intended for C, and all that are intended for D. Even that is not the whole of the problem. Between A and B, A and C, and A and D, there may be a string of stations, pt qy r, st &c., all receiving goods from ay b, c and d, and it would manifestly be inconvenient and wasteful of time and trouble if the trains serving those intermediate stations were made up with, say, six wagons from a to p next the engine, five from b to p at the middle, and four from c to p near the end. Hence at A the trucks from a, 6, c and d must not only be sorted according as they have to travel along A B, A C, or A D, but also must be marshalled into trains in the order of the stations along those lines. Conversely, trains.arriving at A from B, C and D must be broken up and remade in order to distribute their wagons to the different dock branches.
To enable the wagons to be shunted into the desired order yards containing a large number of sidings are constructed at important junction points like A. Such a yard consists essentially of a group or groups of sidings, equal in length at least to the longest train run on the line, branching out from a single main track and often again converging to a single track at the other end; the precise design, however, varies with the amount and character of the WOrk that has to be done, with the configuration of the ground, and also with the mode of shunting adopted. The oldest and commonest method of shunting is that known as 11 push-and-pull,” or in America as " link-and-pin ” or 11 tail ” shunting. An engine coupled to a batch of wagons runs one or more of them down one siding, leaves them there, then returns back with the remainder clear of the points where the sidings diverge, runs one or more others down another siding, and so on till they are all disposed of. The same operation is repeated with fresh batches ofw'agons, until the sidings contain a number of trains, each intended, it may be supposed, for a particular town or district. In -some cases nothing more is required than to attach an engine and brake-van (" caboose ”) and despatch the train; but if, as will happen in others, a further rearrangement of
the wagons is necessary to get them into station order this is effected on the same principle.
Push-and-pull shunting is simple, but it is also slow, and therefore efforts have been made at busy yards where great numbers of trains are dealt with to introduce more expeditious methods. One of these, employed in America, is known as 11 poling.” Alongside the tracks on which stand the trains that are to be broken up and From which the sidings diverge subsidiary tracks are provided for the use of the shunting engines. These engines have a pole projecting horizontally in front of them, or are attached to a “ pole-car ” having such a pole. The method of working is for the pole to be swung out behind a number of wagons; one engine is then started and with its pole pushes the wagons in front of it until their speed is sufficient to carry them over the points, where they are diverted into any desired siding. It then runs back to the train to repeat the operation, but while it is doing so a second engine similarly equipped has poled away; a batch of wagons on the opposite side. In this way a train is distributed with great rapidity, especially if the points giving access to the different sidings are worked by power so that they can be quickly manipulated. ^
Another method, which was introduced into America from Europe about 1890, is that of the summit or “ hump.” The wagons are pushed by an engine at their rear up one slope of an artificial mound, and as they run down the other slope by gravity are switched into the desired siding. Sometimes a site can be found for the sorting sidings where the natural slope of the ground is sufficiently steep to make the wagons run down of themselves. One of the earliest and best known of such “ gravity ” yards is that at Edgehill, near Liverpool, on the London & North-Western railway, which was established in 1873. Here, at the highest level, there are a^ number of “ upper reception lines ” converging to a single line which leads to a group of “ sorting sidings ” at a lower level. These in turn :onverge to a pair of single lines which lead to two groups of marshalling sidings, called “ gridirons ” from their shape, and these again converge to single lines leading to “ lower reception and departure lines” at the bottom of the slope. The wa^ons from the upper reeeption lines are sorted into trains on the sorting sidings, and then, in the gridirons, are arranged in the appropriate order and marshalled ready to be sent off from the departure lines.    (H. M. R.)
Locomotive Power
The term “ power ” is used in technical sense to mean the rate at which work is done against a resistance, and is measured in units of energy expended per unit of time. The unit of power commonly used by engineers is the horse-power, and this unit corresponds to a rate of working of 550 foot-ib of work per second. The problems arising out of the special consideration of the power required to propel a railway train against the resistances opposing its motion, the way the power is applied to trains, the agent by means of which the power is exerted, are conveniently grouped together under the general heading of Locomotive Power. There are certain fundamental relations common to ill tractive problems, and these are briefly considered in §§ 1 and 2, after which the article refers particularly to steam locomotives, although §§4, 5, 7, 8, 9, and 10 have a general application to all modes of traction.
§ 1. Fundamental Relations.—The resistance against which 1 train is moved along a railway is overcome by means of energy obtained from the combustion of fuel, or in some few cases by energy obtained from a waterfall. If the total resistance against which the train is maintained in motion with an instantaneous velocity of V feet per second is R, the rate at which energy is expended in moving the train is represented by the product RV, and this must be the rate at which energy is supplied to the train after deducting all losses due to transmission Erom the source of power. Thus if R is equal to 10,000 lb when the velocity is 44 ft. per second, equivalent to 30 m. per hour, the rate of working against the resistance is 440,000 foot-lb per second.
In whatever form energy is produced and distributed to the train it ultimately appears as mechanical energy applied to turn one or more axles against the resistance to their rotation imposed by the weight on the wheels and the motion of the train.
The rate at which work is done on a particular axle is measured by the product Ta>, where T is the torque^ or turning moment exerted on the axle by the motor or mechanism applied to it^ for this purpose, and w is the angular velocity of the axle in radians per second. Hence if all the energy supplied to the train is utilized at one axle there is the fundamental relation
Tco = RV    (1)
Continuing the above arithmetical illustration, if the wheels to the axle of which the torque is applied are 4 ft. diameter, w = 44/2 = 22 radians per secondhand therefore T = 440,000/22 = 20,000 lb ft. If the energy supplied is distributed between several axles the relation becomes
Tia)i+T2W2-j-T3W3 . . . =RV    (2)
where Ti, T2 , T3f &c. are the torques on the axles whose respective angular velocities arc a>i,a>2 , o>tf &c.
The fundamental condition governing the design of all tractive machinery is that the wheels belonging to the axles to which torque is applied shall roll along the rails without slipping, and exert a tractive force on the train.
The fundamental relation between the applied torque and the tractive force F will be understood from fig. 16, which shows in a diagrammatic form a wheel and axle connected to the framework of a vehicle, in the way adopted for railway trains. The journal of the axle A, is carried in a bearing or axle-box B, which is free to move vertically in the wide i  vertical slot G, formed in the frame and called generally “ the horns,'" under the control of the spring.
The weight Wi carried by the part of the frame supported ^ by the wheel (whose diameter is D) is transmitted first to the pins Pi, P2 , 1  which are fixed to the frame, and then to the spring links Li, L^, which are jointed at their respective ends to the spring S, the centre of which rests on the axle-box.
Let a couple be applied to the axle tending to turn it in the direction shown^ by the arrow. This couple, we may assume, will be equally divided between the two wheels, so that the torque acting on each will be £T. Assuming the wheels to roll along the rail without slipping, this couple will be equivalent to the couple formed by the equal opposite and parallel forces, Fi acting in the direction shown, from the axle-box on to the frame, and Fi —¡jB, acting along the rail. The torque corresponding to this couple is Fi X $D = and hence follows the fundamental relation, JT = JFiD = |jAViD, or if W now represents the weight supported by the axle, F will be the tractive force exerted on the frame by the two axle-boxes to propel the vehicle, and the more convenient relation is established, T = JFD = i/xWD b _    .(3)
If T has a greater value than this relation justifies the wheels will slip. F is called the 11 tractive force " at the rail. The coefficient of friction /x is a variable quantity depending upon the state of the rails, but is usually taken to be J. This is the fundamental equation between the forces acting, however the torque may be applied. Multiplying through by o> we obtain
Ta> = JFo>D = 4/xWwD = RV    (4)
This is a fundamental energy equation for any form of locomotive in which there is only one driving-axle.
The couple T is necessarily accompanied by an equal and opposite couple acting on the frame, which couple endeavours to turn the frame in the <mposite direction to that in which the axle rotates. The practical effect of this opposite couple is slightly to tilt the frame and thus to redistribute slightly the weights on the wheels carrying the vehicle.
If there are several driving-axles in a train, the product Tw must be estimated for each separately; then the sum of the products will be equal to RV. In equation (4)^ there is a fixed relation between o>, V and D given by the expression
= 2 V/D    .    (5)
Here D is in feet, V in feet per second and w in radians per second. If the speed is given in miles per hour, S say,
V-1*466 S    (6)
The revolutions of the axle per second, nt are connected with the radians turned through per second by the relation
n=oj/
27r = 01/6*38    (7)
§ 2. Methods of Applying Locomotive Power.—By locomotive power is to be understood the provision of power to maintain the rates of working on the driving-axles of a train indicated by the relation (4). The most usual way of providing this power is by the combustion of coal in the fire-box of a boiler and the utilization of the steam produced in a steam-engine, both boiler and engine being carried on a frame mounted on wheels in such a wr ay that the crank-shaft of the steam-engine becomes the driving-axle of the train. From equation (3) it is clear that the wheels of the driving-axle must be heavily loaded in order that F may have a value sufficiently great to propel the train. The maximum weight which one pair of wheels are usually allowed to carry on a first-class track is from 18 to 20 tons. If a larger
value of the tractive force is required than this provides for, namely from 4 to 5 tons, the driving-wheels are coupled to one or more pairs of heavily loaded wheels, forming a class of what are called “ coupled engines ” in contradistinction to the “ single engine ” with a single pair of loaded driving-wheels. Mechanical energy may be developed in bulk at a central station conveniently situated with regard to a coal-field or a waterfall, and after transformation by means of electric generators into electric energy it may be transmitted to the locomotive and then by means of electric motors be rctransformed into mechanical energy at the axles to which the motors are applied. Every axle of an electric locomotive may thus be subjected to a torque, and the large weight which must be put on one pair of wheels in order to secure sufficient adhesion when all the driving is done from one axle may be distributed through as many pairs of wheels as desired. In fact, there need be no specially differentiated locomotive at all. Motors may be applied to every axle in the train, and their individual torques adjusted to values suitable to the weights naturally carried by the several axles. Such an arrangement would be ideally perfect from the point of view of the permanent-way engineer, because it would then be possible to distribute the whole of the load uniformly between the wheels. This perfection of distribution is practically attained in present-day practice by the multiple control system of operating an electric train, where motors are applied to a selected number of axles in the train, all of them being under the perfect control of the driver.
The fundamental difference between the two methods is that while the mechanical energy developed by a steam engine is in the first case applied directly to the driving-axle of the locomotive, in the second case it is transformed into electrical energy, transmitted over relatively long distances, and re transformed into mechanical energy on the driving-axles of the train. In the first case all the driving is done on one or at most two axles, sufficient tractive force being obtained by coupling these axles when necessary to others carrying heavy loads. In the second case every axle in the train may be made a driving-axle if desired, in which case the locomotive as a separate machine disappears. In the second case, however, there are all the losses due to transmission from the central station to the train to be considered, as well as the cost of the transmitting apparatus itself. Ultimately the question resolves itself into one of commercial practicability. For suburban traffic with a service at a few minutes’ interval and short distances between the stations electric traction has proved itself to be superior in many respects to the steam locomotive, but for main line traffic and long distance runs it has not yet been demonstrated that it is commercially feasible, though it is known to be practically possible. For the methods of electric traction see Traction; the remainder of the present article will be devoted to the steam locomotive.
§ 3- General Efficiency of Steam Locomotive.—One pound of good Welsh coal properly burned in the fire-box of a locomotive yields about 15,000 British thermal units of heat at a temperature high enough to enable from 50 to So % to flow across the boiler-heating surface to the water, the rest escaping up the chimney with the furnace gases. The steam produced in consequence of this heat transference from the furnace gas to the water carries heat to the cylinder, where 7 to 11% is transformed into mechanical energy, the remainder passing away up the chimney with the exhaust steam. The average value of the product of these percentages, namely 0;65Xo-oq=o-o6 say, may be used to investigate generally the working of a locomotive; the actual value could only be determined by experiment in any particular case. With this assumption, 0'06 is the fraction of the heat energy of the coal which is utilized in the engine cylinders as mechanical work; that is to say, of the 15,000 B.Th.U. produced by the combustion of 1 lb of coal, 15.000X0*06=900 only are available for tractive purposes.
Coals vary much in calorific value, some producing only 12,000 B.Th.U. per lb when burnt, whilst 15,500 is obtained from the best Welsh coals. Let E represent the pounds of coal burnt per hour in the fire-box of a locomotive, and let c be the calorific value in B.Th.U. per lb; then the mechanical energy available in footpounds per hour isapproximatelyo*o6 X 77S XEc, and this expressed in horse-power units gives
IH.p.^o^zzSXEc^
1,980,000.    *
A " perfect engine M receiving and rejecting steam at the same
temperatures as the actual engine of the locomotive, would develop about twice this power, say 1400 I.H.P. This figure represents the ideal but unattainable standard of performance. This question of the standard engine of comparison, and the engine efficiency is considered in § 15 below, and the boiler efficiency in § 11 below.
The indicated horse-power developed by a cylinder may always be ascertained from an indicator diagram and observations of the speed. Let p be the mean pressure in pounds per square inch, calculated from an indicator diagram taken from a particular cylinder when the speed of the crank-shaft is n revolutions per second. Also let / be the length of the stroke in feet and let a be the area of one cylinder in square inches, then, assuming two cylinders of equal size, I.H.P. =2 ρΐαη/ζζο    (8)
The I.H.P. at any instant is equal to the total rate at which energy is required to overcome the tractive resistance R. The horsepower available at the driving-axle, conveniently called the brake horse-power, is from 20 to 30 % less than the indicated horse-power, and the ratio, B.H.P./I.H.P. =c, is called the mechanical efficiency of the steam engine. The relation between the b.h.p. and the torque on the driving-axle is
550 B.H.P. =Τω    (9 )
It is usual with steam locomotives to regard the resistance R as including the frictional resistances between the cylinders and the driving-axle, so that the rate at which energy is expended in moving the train is expressed either by the product RV, or by the value of the indicated horse-power, the relation between them being
550 I.H.P. = RV    (10)
or in terms of the torque
550 I.H.P.Xe = RVe=Tw    (11)
The individual factors of the product RV may have any value consistent with equation (10) and with certain practical conditions, so that for a given value of the I.H.P. R must decrease if V increases. Thus if the maximum horse-power which a locomotive can develop is 1000, the tractive resistance R, at 60 m. per hour ( = 88 ft. per second) is R = (ioooX55o)/88=6250 lb. If, however, the speed is reduced to 15 m. per hour ( = 22 ft. per second) R increases to 25,000 lb. Thus an engine working at maximum power may be used to haul a relatively light load at a high speed or a heavy load at a slow speed.
§ 4. Analysis of Train Resistance.—Train resistance may be analysed into the following components:—
(1)    Journal friction and friction of engine machinery.
(2)    Wind resistance.
(3)    Resistance due to gradients, represented by Rff .
(4)    Resistance due to miscellaneous causes.
(5)    Resistance due to acceleration, represented by Re .
(6)    Resistance due to curves.
The sum of all these components of resistance is at any instant equal to the resistance represented by R. At a uniform speed on a level straight road 3, 5 and 6 are zero. The total resistance is conveniently divided into two parts: (1) the resistance due to the vehicles hauled by the engine, represented by R,; (2) the resistance of the engine and tender represented by R# . In each of these two cases the resistance can of course be analysed into the six components set out in the above list.
§ 5. Vehicle Resistance and Draw-bar Pull.—The power of the engine is applied to the vehicles through the draw-bar, so that the draw-bar pull is a measure of the vehide resistance. The draw-bar pull for a given load is a function of the speed of the train, and numerous experiments have been made to find the relation connecting the pull w'ith the speed under various conditions. The usual way of experimenting is to put a dynamometer car (see Dynamometer) between the engine and the train. This car is equipped with apparatus by means of which a continuous record of the draw-bar pull is obtained on a distance base; time indications are also made on the diagram from which the speed at any instant can be deduced. The pull recorded on the diagram includes the resistances due to acceleration and to the gradient on which the train is moving. It is usual to subtract these resistances from the observed pull, so as to obtain the draw-barpull reduced to what it would be at a uniform speed on the level. This corrected pull is then divided by the weight of the vehicles hauled, in which must be included the weight of the dynamometer car, and the quotient gives the resistance per ton of load hauled at a certain uniform speed on a straight and level road. A series of experiments were made by J. A. F. Aspinall on the Lancashire & Yorkshire railway to ascertain the resistance of trains of bogie passenger carriages of different lengths at^ varying speeds, and the results are recorded in a paper, " Train Resistance," Proc. InsL C.E. (1901), vol. 147. Aspinall’s results are expressed by the formula
U=2*5 +50-8-1-0*0278, L
where r, is the resistance in pounds per ton, S is the speed in miles per hour, and L is the length of the train in feet measured over the
carriage bodies. .The two following expressions are given in the Bulletin of the International Railway Congress (vol. xii. p. 1275), by Barbier, for some experiments made on .the Northern railway of France with a train of 157 tons mean weight; they are valid between 37 and 77 m. per hour:—
'»=3-58+·1 65S(1 i^0 S+50) for 4-wheel coaches, (13)
+    for bogie coaches. (14)
The Baldwin Locomotive Company give the formulae
^=3-36+^p    (15)
and
rt,= i-68+o-224S for speeds from 47 to 77 m. per hour. (16) All the above formulae refer to carriage stock. The resistance of goods wagons has not been so systematically investigated. In the paper above quoted Aspinall cites a case where the resistance of a train of empty wagons 1830 ft. long was 18-33 lb per ton at a speed of 26 m. per hour, and a train of full wagons 1045 ft. long gave only 9*12 lb per ton at a speed of 29 m. per hour. The resistance found from the above expressions includes the components 1, 2 and 4 of -§ 4. The resistance caused by the wind is very variable, and in extreme cases may double^ the resistance found from the formulae. A side wind causes excessive flange friction on the leeward side of the train, and increases the tractive resistances therefore very considerably, even though its velocity be relatively moderate. The curves corresponding to the above expressions are plotted in fig. 17, four values of L being taken for formula (12) corresponding to trains of 5, 10, 15 and 20 bogie carriages.
The resistance at starting is greater than the running resistance at moderate speeds. From AspinalPs experiments it appears to be about 17 lb per ton, and this value is plotted on the diagram.
The resistance to motion round a curve has not been so systematic-all}^ studied that any definite rule can be formulated applicable to all classes of rolling stock and all radii of curves. A general result could not be obtained, even from a large number of experiments, because the resistance round curves depends upon so many variable factors. In some cases the gauge is laid a little wider than the standard, and there are varying amounts of superelevation of the outer rail; but the most formidable factor in the production of resistance is the guard-rail, which is sometimes put in with the object of guiding the wheel which runs on the inner rail of the curv e on the inside of the flange.
§ 6. Engine Resistance.—From experiments made on the North-Eastern railway (see a paper by W. H. Smith on “ Express Locomotive Engines,” Prac. Inst. Mech. Eng.t October 1898), it appeared that the engine resistance was about 35 % of the total resistance, and in^ the train-resistance experiments on the Lancashire & Yorkshire railway quoted above the engine resistance was also about 35 % of the total resistance, thus confirming the North-Eastern railway results. Barbier Qoc. cit.) gives as the formula for the engine resistance
r·=8- 51 +3-24S(i -6iS+3o)/iooo    (17)
where S is the speed in miles per hour. This formula is valid between speeds of 37 and 77 m. per hour, and was obtained in connexion with the experiments previously quoted on the Northern railway of France with an engine and tender weighing about 83 tons. Barbier's formula is plotted in fig. 17, together with a curve expressing generally the results of some early experiments on the Great Western railway carried out by Sir D. Gooch. The extension of the Barbier curve beyond the above limits in fig. 17 gives values which must be regarded as only very approximate.
the weight of the vehicles are respectively given, the rate at which work must be done in the engine cylinders in order to maintain the train in motion at a stated speed can be computed by the aid of the curves plotted in fig. 17. Thus let an engine and tender weighing 80 tons haul vehicles weighing 200 tons at a uniform speed on the level of 40 m. per hour. As given by the Barbier curves in fig. 17, the engine resistance at 40 m. per hour is 20 lb per ton, and the vehicle resistance 8-5 lb per ton at the same speed. Hence Engine resistance, R,= 80X20 =1600 lb Vehicle resistance, 1^ = 200X8-5 —1700 ,,
: Train resistance, R =    3300 ,,
The speed, 40 m. per hour, is equal to 58-6 ft. per second; therefore the rate of working in foot-pounds per second is 3300X58-6, from which I.H.P.== (3300X58*6)/550= 354; This is the horse-power, therefore, ^ which must be developed in the cylinders to maintain the train in motion at a uniform speed of 40 m. per hour on a level straight road with the values of the resistances assumed.
§ 8. Rate at which work is done against a gradient.—Gradients are measured either by stating the number of feet horizontally, G say, in which the vertical rise is 1 ft., or by the vertical rise in 100 ft. measured^ horizontally expressed as a percentage, or by the number of feet rising vertically in a mile. Thus a gradient of 1 in 200 is the same as a half per cent, grade or a rise of 26-4 ft. per mile. The difference between the horizontal distance and the distance measured along the rail is so small that it is negligible in all practical calculations. Hence if a train is travelling up the gradient at a speed of V ft. per second, the^ vertical rise per second is V/G ft. If Wi is the weight of the train in pounds, the rate of working against the gradient expressed in horse-power units is
H.P.=W1 V/55 oG.    (18)
Assuming the data of the previous section, and in addition that the train is required to maintain a speed of 40 m. per hour up a gradient of I in 300, the extra horse-power required will be H p „280X2240X58-6
300X550    ~223 ·
This must be exerted in addition to the horse-power calculated in the previous ’section, so that the total indicated horse-power which must be developed in the cylinders is now 354+223=577. If the train is running down a gradient this horse-power is the rate at which gravity is working on the train, so that with the data of the previous section, on the assumption that the train is running down a gradient of 1 in 300, the horse-power required to maintain the speed would be 354—223 = 131.
§ 9 —Rate at which work is done against acceleration.—If Wi is the weight of the train in pounds and a the acceleration in feet per second, the force required to produce the acceleration is
f-Wia/g.
   (19)
And if V is the average speed during the change of velocity implied by the uniform acceleration a, the rate at which work is done by this force is
/V=WiVa/g    (20)
or in horse-power units
H.P. = WiVa/ssog.    (21)
Assuming the data of § 7, suppose the train to change its speed from 40 to 41 m. per hour in 13 seconds. The average acceleration in feet per second is measured by-the fraction
Change of speed in feet per sec. 60-07 — 58-6 Time occupied in the change “    13    —0-113.
Therefore the horse-power which must be developed in the cylinders to effect this change of speed is from (21)
H p _g8oX224 OXo-II3X59
550x32
The rate of working is negative when the train is retarded; for instance, if the train had changed its speed from 41 to 40 m. per hour in 13 seconds, the rate at which work would have to be absorbed by the brake blocks would represent 237 H.P. This is lost in heat produced by the friction between the brake blocks and the wheels, though^ in some systems of electric driving some of the energy stored in the train may be returned to the central station during retardation. The principal condition operating in the design of locomotives intended for local services with frequent stops is the degree of acceleration required, the aim of the designer being to produce an engine which shall be able to bring the train to its journey speed in the shortest time possible. For example, suppose it is required to start a train weighing 200 tons from rest and bring it to a speed of 30 m. per hour in 30 seconds. The weight of the engine may be assumed in advance to be 80 tons. The acceleration, a, which may be supposed uniform, is 1*465. The average velocity is 15 m. per hour, which is equal to 22 ft. per second; therefore the tractive force required is, from (19),
(280 X2240X1 *465)/32= 28,720 lb, and the corresponding horse-power which must be developed in the cylinders is, from (2o),/V/550, and this is with/and V equal to the above values, 1149. To obtain the tractive force the weight on the coupled wheels must be about five times this amount—that is.
64 tons; and to obtain the horse-power the boiler will be one of the largest that can be built to the construction gauge. After acceleration to the journey speed of 30 m. per hour the horse-power required is reduced to about one-third of that required for acceleration alone.
§ 10. General expression for total rate of working.—Adding the various rates of working together
RV -III Γ    . 2240WV t 224 o\Wa    .
550 1 ’H,i ·    550    55oCi 55°«    *· '
where W, is weight of engine and tender in tons, W* the weight of vehicles in tons, W the weight of train ip tons*= \V*+\V*, r0 and Τψ the respective engine and vehicle resistances taken from the curves fig. 17 at a speed corresponding to the average speed during the acceleration a, G the gradient, g the acceleration due to gravity, and V the velocity of the train in feet per second. In this expression it is assumed that the acceleration is uniform, and this assumption is sufficiently accurate for any practical purpose to which the above formula would be applied in the ordinary working of a locomotive. If a is variable, then the formula must be applied in a series of steps, each step corresponding to a time interval over which the acceleration may be assumed uniform.
Dividing through by V and multiplying through by 550,
(23 )
an expression giving the value of R the total tractive resistance. If the draw-bar pull isknown to be R*, then applying the same principles to the vehicle alone which above are applied to the whole train,
total draw-bar pull=\V,rff (24)
This expression may be used to find rv when the total draw-bar pull is observed as well as the speed, the changes of speed and the gradient. The speed held to correspond with the resistance must be the mean speed during the change of speed. The best way of deducing r* is to select portions of the dynamometer record where the speed is constant. Then a disappears from all the above expressions. These expressions indicate what frequent changes in the power are required as the train pursues its journey up and down gradients, against wind resistance, journal friction and perhaps the resistance of a badly laid track; and show how both the potential energy and kinetic energy of the train are continually changing: the first from a change in vertical position due to the gradients, the second from changes in speed. These considerations also indicate what a difficult matter it is to find the exact rate of working against thcrcsistances, because of the difficulty of securing conditions which eliminate the effect both of the gradient and of acceleration.
§ ii. The Boiler.—Maximum Power.—The maximum power which can be developed by a locomotive depends upon the maximum rate of fuel combustion which can be maintained per square foot of grate. This maximum rate depends upon the kind of coal used, whether small, friable, bituminous or hard, upon the thickness of the fire, and upon the correct design and setting of the blast-pipe. A limit is reached to the rate of combustion when the draught becomes strong enough to carry heavy lighted sparks through the tubes and chimney. This, besides reducing the efficiency of the furnace, introduces the danger of fire to crops and buildings near the line. The maximum rate of combustion may be as much as 150 lb of coal per square foot of grate per hour, and in exceptional cases even a greater rate than this has been maintained. It is not economical to force the boiler to work at too high a rate, because it has been practically demonstrated that the boiler efficiency decreases after a certain point, as the rate of combustion increases. A few experimental results are set forth in Table XX., from which it will be seen that with a relatively low rate of combustion, a rate which denotes very light service, namely 28 lb of coal per square foot of grate per hour, the efficiency of the boiler is 82%, which is as good a result as can be obtained with the best class of stationary boiler or marine boiler even when using economizers.
The first group consists of experiments selected from the records of a large number made on the boiler of the locomotive belonging to the Purdue University, Indiana, U.S.A.
The second group consists of experiments made on a boiler belonging to the Great Eastern Railway Company. The first one of the group was made on the boiler fixed in the locomotive yard at Stratford, and the two remaining experiments of the group were made while the engine was working a train between London and March.
The third group consists of experiments selected from the records of a series of trials made on the London & South-Western railway with an express locomotive.
§ 12. Draught.—One pound of coal requires about 20 lb of air for its proper combustion in the fire-box of a locomotive, though this quantity of air diminishes as the rate of combustion increases.
For instance, an engine having a grate area of. 30 sq. ft. and burning 100 lb of coal per square foot of grate per hour would
require that 60,000 lb of air should be drawn through the furnace per hour in order to burn the coal. This large quantity of air is forced through the furnace by means of the difference of pressure established between the external atmospheric pressure in the ash-pan and the pressure in the smoke-box.
The exhaust steam passing from the engine through the blast-pipe and the chimney produces a diminution of pressure, or
partial vacuum, in the smoke-box roughly proportional to the weight of steam discharged per unit of time. The difference of pressure between the outside air and the smoke-box gases may be measured by the difference of the water levels in the limbs of a U tube, one limb being in communication with the smoke-box, the other with the atmosphere. The difference of levels varies from i to as much as io in. in extreme cases. The draught corresponding to the smallest rate of combustion shown in Table XX. in Professor Goss’s experiments, was 1-72 in. of water, and for the highest rate, namely 181, 7-48 in. of water. To get the best effect the area of the blast-nozzle must be properly proportioned to the size of the cylinders and be properly set with regard to the base of the chimney. The best proportions are found by trial in all cases.
Figs. 18 and 19 show two smoke-boxes typical of English practice. Fig. 18 is the smoke-box of the 6 ft. 6 in. six-coupled express passenger engines designed by G. Whale for the London & North-Western Railway Company in 1904, and fig. 19 shows the box of the four-couplecf express passenger engine designed by J. Holden for the
Great Eastern Railway Company. In the case of the London & North-Western engine (fig. 18), the blast-pipe orifice B is placed at about the centre of the boiler barrel, and the exhaust steam is discharged straight into the trumpet-shaped end of the chimney, which is continued down inside the smoke-box. In fig. 19 the blast orifice B is set much lower, and the steam is discharged through a frustum of a cone set in the upper part of the smoke-box into the short chimney. Fig. 20 shows the standard proportions recommended by the committee of the Railway Master Mechanics' Association on Exhaust Pipes and Steam Passages (Proc.Amer. Railway Master Mechanics* Assoc., 1906). According to the Report, for the best results both H and n should be made as great as practicable, and then d — o-2iD+o-i6hf b = 2d or o-5D, P=o*32D, p=o-22D, L—o-6D or o*^D, but not of intermediate values. This last relation is, however, not well established. For much detailed information regarding American smoke-box practice, reference may be made to Locomotive Sparks, by Professor W. F. M. Goss (London, 1902).
The arrangements for arresting sparks in American practice and on the continent of Europe are somewhat elaborate. In
English practice where a spark-arrester is put in it usually takes the form of a wire-netting dividing the smoke-box horizontally into two parts at a level just above the top row of tubes, or arranged to form a continuous connexion between the blast-pipe and the chimney.
Fig. 19 illustrates an arrangement designed by J. Holden. The heavy sparks are projected from the tubes in straight lines and are caught by the louvres L, L, L, and by them deflected downwards to the bottom of the smoke-box, where they collect in a heap in the space D round a tube which is essentially an ejector. At every blast a small quantity of steam is caught by the orifice O and led to the ejectors, one on each side, with the result that the ashes are blown out into the receptacles on each side of the engine, one of which is shown at E. The louvres /, l, l are placed to shield the central region occupied by the blast-pipe.
As the indicated horse-power of the engine increases, the weight of steam discharged increases, and the smoke-box vacuum is increased, thereby causing more air to flow through the furnace and increasing the rate of combustion. Thus the demand for more steam is automatically responded to by the boiler. It is this close automatic interdependence of engine and boiler which makes the locomotive so extraordinarily well suited for the purpose of locomotive traction.
§ 13. The Steam Engine.—The steam engine of a locomotive has the general characteristics of a double-acting non-condensing engine (see Steam Engine). Distribution of steam is effected by a slide valve, sometimes fitted with a balancing device, and sometimes formed into a piston valve. All types of valves are with few exceptions operated by a link motion, generally of the Stephenson type, occasionally of the Allan type or the Gooch type, or with some form of radial gear as the Joy gear or the Walschaert gear, though the latter gear has characteristics which ally it with the link motions. The Stephenson link motion is used almost universally in England and America, but it has gradually been displaced by the Walschaert gear on the continent of Europe, and to some extent in England by the Joy gear. The general characteristics of the distribution effected by these gears are similar.' Each of them, besides being a reversing gear, is an expansion gear both in forward and backward running. The lead is variable in the Stephenson link motion, whilst in the Walschaert and the Joy gears it is constant. Illustrations of these gears are given in the article Steam Engine, and the complete distribution of steam for both forward and backward running is worked out for a typical example of each of them in Valves and Valve Gear Mechanisms by W. E. Dalby (London, 1906).
’r § 14. Cylinder Dimensions.—Adhesion.—Tractive Force.—A locomotive must be designed to fulfil two conditions. First, it must be able to exert a tractive force sufficient to start the train under the worst conditions possible on the railway over which it is to operate—for instance, when the train is stopped by signal on a rising gradient where the track is curved and fitted with a guard-rail. Secondly, it must be able to maintain the train at a given speed against the total resistances of the level or up a gradient of given inclination. These conditions are to a certain extent mutually antagonistic, since an engine designed to satisfy either condition independently of the other would be a different engine from that designed to make the best compromise between them.
Equation (3), § 1 expresses the fundamental condition which must be satisfied when a locomotive is starting a train. The torque exerted on the driving-axle by the steam engine just at starting may be that due to the full boiler pressure acting in the cylinders, but usually the weight on the coupled wheels is hardly sufficient to enable advantage to be taken of the full boiler pressure, and it has to be throttled down by the regulator to prevent slipping. Sand, driven between the wheel and the rail by a steam jet, used just at starting, increases the adhesion beyond the normal value and enables a larger pressure to be exerted on the piston than would otherwise be possible. When the train is started and is moving slowly, the torque acting on the driving-axle may be estimated as that due to about 85% of the full boiler pressure acting in the cylinders. The torque
due to the two cylinders is variable to a greater or less extent, depending upon the degree of expansion in the cylinders and the speed. The form of the torque curve, or crank effort curve, as it is sometimes called, is discussed in the article Steam Engine, and the torque curve corresponding to actual indicator diagrams taken from an express passenger engine travelling at a speed of 65 m. per hoar is given in The Balancing of Engines by W. E. Dalby (London, 1906).
The plotting of the torque curve is laborious, but the average torque acting, which is all that is required for the purposes of this article, can be found quite simply, thus:—Let pbe the mean effective pressure acting in one cylinder, a, the area of the cylinder, and /, the stroke. Then the work done during one revolution of the^ crank is 2pla per cylinder. Assuming that the mean pressure in the other cylinder is also p% the total work done per revolution is 4pla. If T is the mean torque, the work done on the crank-axle per revolution is 2xT. Hence assuming the mechanical efficiency of the
engine to be«, and substituting^?2 for the area a,
2irT =^plae~plnd1 €t
so that
T-i pd?U.
But from § 1, T «■ JDF;
therefore    e F ^pdtU/D    e     (25)
F in this expression is twice the average magnitude of the equal and opposite forces constituting the couple for one driving-wheel illustrated in fig. 16, one force of which acts to propel the train whilst the other is the value of the tangential frictional resistance between the wheel and the rail. This force F must not exceed the value /x\V or slipping will take place. Hence, if p is the maximum value of the mean effective pressure corresponding to about 85% of the boiler pressure,
m \V = ^/«/D    e (26)
is an expression giving a relation between the total weight on the coupled wheels, their diameters and the size of the cylinder. The magnitude of F when p and « are put each equal to unity, is usually called the^ tractive force of the locomotive per pound of mean effective pressure in the^ cylinders. If p is the mean pressure at any speed the total tractive force which the engine is exerting is given by equation (25) above. The value of t is variable, but is between •7 and ·8, and for approximate calculations may be taken equal to unity. In the following examples the value will be assumed unity.
These relations maybe illustrated by an example. Let an engine have two cylinders each 19 in. diameter and 26 in. stroke. Let the boiler pressure be 175 Id per square inch. Taking 85% of this, the maximum mean effective pressure would be 149 lb per square inch. Further, let the diameter of the driving-wheels be 6 ft. 3 in. Then the tractive force is, from (25),
(i49Xi9, X2-i66)/6*25 = i8,6oolb-8-3 tons.
Assuming that the frictional resistance at the rails is given by J the weight on the wheels, the total weight on the driving-wheels necessary to secure sufficient adhesion to prevent slipping must be at least 8·3Χ5=^ϊ·5 tons. This would be distributed between three coupled axles giving an average of 1*38 tons per axle, though the distribution might not in practice be uniform, a larger proportion of the weight falling on the driving-axle. If the starting resistance of the whole train be estimated at 16 lb per ton, this engine would be able to start 1*163 tons on the level, or about 400 tons on a gradient of i in 75, both these figures including the weight of the engine and tender, which would be about 100 tons.
The engine can only exert this large tractive force so long as the mean pressure is maintained at 149 lb per square inch. This high mean pressure cannot be maintained for long, because as the speed increases the demand for steam per unit of time increases, so that cut-off must take place earlier and earlier in the stroke, the limiting steady speed being attained when the rate at which steam is supplied to the cylinders is adjusted by the cut-off to be equal to the maximum rate at which the boiler can produce steam, which depends upon the maximum rate at which coal can be burnt per square foot of grate. If C is the number of pounds of coa^ burnt per square foot of grate per hour, the calorific value of which is c B.Th.U. per pound, the maximum indicated horse-power is given by the expression
I.H.P. maximum-Cc ^X 77^Xi?,
Ι98ΟΟΟΟ
where A is the area of the grate in square feet, and η is the combined efficiency of the engine and boiler. With the data of the previous example, and assuming in addition that the grate area is 24 sq. ft., that the rate of combustion is 150 lb of coal per square foot of grate per hour, that the calorific value is 14000, and finally that 17=0-06, the maximum indicated horse-power which the engine might be expected to develop would be 0-06X150X14000X24X778/1980000 = 1190, corresponding to a mean effective pressure in the cylinders of 59*5 lb per square inch.
Assuming that the train is required to run at a speed of 60 m. per hour, that is 88 ft. per second, the total resistance R, which the engine can overcome at this speed, is by equation (10)
R = (1190X550)788=7*400 lb.
Thus although at a slow speed the engine can exert a tractive force of 18,600 lb, at 60 m. per hour, the tractive force falls to 7400 lb, and this cannot be increased except by increasing the rate of combustion (neglecting any small changes due to a change in the efficiency 17). Knowing the magnitude of R, the draw-bar pull, and hence the weight of vehicle the engine can haul at this speed, can be estimated if the resistances are known. Using the curves of fig. 17 it will be found that at 60 m. per hour the resistance of the engine and tender is 33 lb per ton, and the resistance of a train of bogie coaches about 14 lb per ton. Hence if W is the weight of the vehicles in tons, and the weight of the engine and tender be taken at 100 tons, the value of Wean be founcsfrom the equation iaW+3300 = 7440, from which W = 296 tons. This is the load which the engine would take in ordinary weather. With exceptionally bad weather the load would haVe to be reduced or two engines would have to be employed, or an exceptionally high rate of combustion would have to be maintained in the fire-box.
It will be seen at once that with a tractive force of 7400 lb a weight of 37,000 lb (= 16*5 tons) would be enough to secure sufficient adhesion, and this could be easily carried on one axle. Hence for a level road the above load could be hauled at 60 m. per hour with a “ single ” engine. When the road^ leads the train up an incline, however, the tractive force must be increased, so that the need for coupled wheels soon arises if the road is at all a heavy one.
§15. Engine Efficiency. Combined Engine and Boiler Efficiency.—The combined engine and boiler efficiency has hitherto been taken to be 0-06; actual values of the boiler efficiencies are given in Table XX. Engine efficiency depends upon many variable factors, such as the cut-off, the piston speed, the initial temperature of the steam, the final temperature of the steam, the quality of the steam, the sizes of the steam-pipes, ports and passages, the arrangement of the cylinders and its effect on condensation, the mechanical perfection of the steam-distributing gear, the tightness of the piston, &c. A few values of the thermal efficiency obtained from experiments are given in Table XXI. in the second column, the first column being added to give some idea of the rate at which the engine was working when the data from which the efficiency has been deduced were observed. The corresponding boiler efficiencies are given in the third column of the table, when they are known, and the combined efficiencies in the fourth column. The figures in this column indicate that o*o6 is a good average value to work with.
It is instructive to inquire into the limiting efficiency of an engine consistent with the conditions under which it is working, because in no case can the efficiency of a steam-engine exceed a certain value which depends upon the temperatures at which
it receives and rejects heat. Thus a standard of comparison for every individual engine may be obtained with which to compare its actual performance. The standard of comparison generally adopted for this purpose is obtained by calculating the efficiency of an engine working according to the Rankine cycle. That is to say, expansion is adiabatic and is continued down to the backpressure which in a non-condensing engine is 14*7 lb per square inch, since any back pressure above this amount is an imperfection which belongs to the actual engine. The back pressure is supposed to be uniform, and there is no compression.
Fig. 21 shows the pressure-volume diagram of the Rankine cycle for one pound of steam where the initial pressure is 175 lb per
square inch by the gauge, equivalent to 190 lb per square inch absolute. In no case could an engine receiving steam at the temperature corresponding to this pressure and rejecting heat at 2120 F. convert more heat into work than is represented by the area of this diagram. The area of the diagram may be measured, but it is usually more convenient to calculate the number of B.Th.U. which the area represents from the following formula, which is expressed in terms of the absolute temperature Ti of the steam at the steam-pipe, and the temperature T«*— 46i°+2I2° — 673° absolute corresponding to the back pressure:—
Maximum available work ) TT    ™w ,Lk    Ti
per pound of steam    \ =U-(T,-Tt ) (i +T )-T2 log^.
With the initial pressure of 190 lb per square inch absolute it will be found from a steam table that Ti = 838° absolute. Using this and the temperature 673° in the expression,* it will be found that U = i8s B.Th.U. per pound of steam. If hi is the water heat at the lower temperature, hi the water heat at the higher temperature, and Li the latent heat at the higher temperature, the heat supply per pound of steam is equal to hi—hv-\-hit which, from the steam tables, with the values of the temperatures given, is equal to 1013 B.Th.U. per pound. The thermal efficiency is therefore 185/1013=0*183.
That is to say, a perfect engine working between the limits of temperature assigned would convert only 18% of the total heat supply into work. This would be an ideal performance for an engine receiving steam at 190 lb initial pressure absolute, and rejecting steam at the back pressure assumed above, and could never be attained in practice. When the initial pressure is 100 lb per square inch by the gauge the thermal efficiency drops to about nearly 15% with the same back pressure. The way the thermal efficiency of the ideal engine increases with the pressure is exhibited in fig. 22 by the curve AB. The curve was drawn by calculating the thermal efficiency from the above expression for various values of the initial temperature, _ keeping the^ final temperature constant at 673°, and then plotting these efficiencies against the corresponding values of the gauge pressures.
The actual thermal efficiencies observed in some of the cases cited in Table XXI. are plotted on the diagram, the reference numbers on which refer to the first column in the table. Thus the cross marked 3 in fig. 22 represents the thermal efficiency actually obtained in one of Adams ana Pettigrew's experiments, namely, 0*11, the pressure in the steam-pipe being 167 lb per square inch. From the diagram it will be seen that the corresponding efficiency of the ideal engine is about o*i 8. The efficiency ratio is therefore o*11/0*18 =0*61. That is to say, the engine actually utilized 61 % of the energy which it was possible to utilize by means of a perfect engine worlung with the same initial pressure against a back pressure equal to the atmosphere. Lines representing efficiency ratios of 0*6, 0*5 and 0*4 are plotted on the diagram, so that the efficiency ratios corresponding to the various experiments plotted may be readily read off. The initial temperature of the standard engine of comparison must be the temperature of the steam taken in the steam-pipe. For further information regarding the standard engine of comparison see the article Steam Engine and also the “ Report of the Committee on the Thermal Efficiency of Steam Engines,” Proc.Inst. C.E. (1898).
§ 16. Piston Speed.—The expression for the indicated horse-power may be written
I.H.P. —par/550    (27)
where v is the average piston speed in feet per second. For a stated value of the boiler pressure and the cut-off the mean pressure p is a function of the piston speed v. For the few cases where data are available—data, however, belonging to engines representing standard practice in their construction and in the design of cylinders and steam ports and passages—the law connecting p and v is approximately linear and of the form
p—c — bv    (28)
where b and c are constants. (See W. E. Dalby, “ The Economical Working of Locomotives,” ^ Proc. Inst. C.E.t 1905-6, vol. 164.) Substituting this value of p in (27)
(29)
the form of which indicates that there is a certain piston speed for which the I.H.P. is a ^maximum. In a particular case where the boiler pressure was maintained constant at 130 lb per square inch, and the cut-off was approximately 20% of the stroke, the values c — 55 and ¿=0*031 were deduced, from which it will be found that the value of the piston speed corresponding to the maximum horsepower is 887 ft. per minute. The data from which this result is deduced will be found in Professor Goss's paper quoted above in Table XXI. The point is further illustrated by some curves published in the American Engineer (June 1901) by G. R. Henderson recording the tests of a freight locomotive made on the Chicago & North-Western railway. Any modification of the design which will reduce the resistance to the flow of steam through the steam passages at high speeds will increase the piston speed for which the indicated horse-power is a maximum.
§ 17. Compound Locomotives.—The thermal efficiency of a steam-engine is in general increased by carrying out the expansion of the steam in two, three or even more stages in separate cylinders, notwithstanding the inevitable drop of pressure which must occur when the steam is transferred from one cylinder to the other during the process of expansion. Compound working permits of a greater range of expansion than is possible with a simple engine, and incidentally there is less range of pressure per cylinder, so that the pressures and temperatures per cylinder have not such a wide range of variation. In compound working the combined volumes of the low-pressure cylinders is a measure of the power of the engine, since this represents the final volume of the steam used per stroke. The volume of the high-pressure cylinder may be varied within wide limits for the same low-pressure volume; the proportions adopted should, however, be such that there is an absence of excessive drop between them as the steam is transferred from one to the other. Compound locomotives have been built by various designers, but opinion is still uncertain whether any commercial economy is obtained by their use. The varying load against which a locomotive works, and the fact that a locomotive is non-condensing, are factors which reduce the margin of possible economy within narrow limits. Coal-saving can be shown to the extent of about 14% in some cases, but the saving depends upon the kind of service on which the engine is employed. The first true compound locomotive was constructed in 1876 from designs by A. M. Mallet, at the Creusot works in Bayonne. The first true compound locomotive in England was constructed at Crewe works in 1878 by F. W. Webb. It was of the same type as Mallet's engine, and was made by simply bushing one cylinder of an ordinary two-cylinder simple engine, the bushed cylinder being the high-pressure and the other cylinder the low-pressure cylinder. Webb evolved the type of three-cylinder compound with which his name is associated in 1882.
There were two high-pressure cylinders placed outside the frames and driving on a trailing wheel, and one low-pressure cylinder placed between the frames and driving on a wheel placed in front of the driving-wheel belonging to the high-pressure cylinders. The steam connexions were such that the two high-pressure cylinders were placed in parallel, both exhausting into the one low-pressure cylinder. The first engines of this class were provided with high-pressure cylinders, n iii. diameter and 24 in. stroke, a low-pressure cylinder 26 in. diameter, 24 in. stroke, and driving-wheels 6 ft. 6 in. diameter; but subsequently these dimensions w'crc varied. There were no coupling rods. A complete account of Webb’s engines will be found in a paper, “ The Compound Principle applied to Locomotives,” by E. Worthington, Proc. Inst. C.E., 1S89, vol. xevi. Locomotives have to start with the full load on the engine, consequently an outstanding feature of every compound locomotive is the apparatus or mechanism added to enable the engine to start readily. Generally steam from the boiler is admitted direct to the low-pressure cylinder through a reducing valve, and valves and devices are used to prevent the steam so admitted acting as a back pressure on the high-pressure cylinder. In the Webb compound the driver opened communication from the high-pressure exhaust pipe to the blast-pipe, and at the same time opened a valve giving a supply of steam from the boiler direct to the low-pressure valve chest. T. W. Worsdell developed the design of the two-cylinder compound in England and built several, first for the Great Eastern railway and subsequently for the North-Eastern railway. The engines were built on the Worsdell and Von Borrics plan, and were fitted with an ingenious starting-valve of an automatic character to overcome the difficulties of starting. Several compounds of a type introduced by W. M. Smith on the North-Eastern railway in 1898 have been built by the Midland railway. In these there are two low-pressure cylinders placed outside the frame, and one high-pressure cylinder placed between the frames. All cylinders drive on one crank-axle with three cranks at 120°. The driving-wheels are coupled to a pair of trailing wheels. A controlling valve enables the supply of steam to the low-pressure cylinders to be supplemented by boiler steam at a reduced pressure. For a description and illustrations of the details of the starting devices used in the Webb, Worsdell and Smith compounds, sec an article, “ The Development of the Compound Locomotive in England,” by W. E. Dalby in the Engineering Magazine for September and October 1904. A famous type of compound locomotive developed on the continent of Europe is the four-cylinder De Glehn, some of which have been tried on the Great Western railway. There are two high-pressure cylinders placed outside the frame, and two low-pressure placed inside the frames. The low-pressure cylinders drive on the leading crank-axle with cranks at right angles, the high-pressure cylinders driving on the trailing wheels. The wheels are coupled, but the feature of the engine is that the coupling-rods act merely to keep the high-pressure and low-pressure engines in phase with one another, very little demand being made upon them to transmit force except when one of the wheels begins to slip. In this arrangement the whole of the adhesive weight of the engine is used in the best possible manner, and the driving of the train is practically equally divided between two axles. The engine can be worked as a four-cylinder simple at the will of the driver. S. M. Vauclain introduced a successful type of four-cylinder compound in America in 1889. A high- and low-pressure cylinder are cast together, and the piston-rods belonging to them are both coupled to one cross-head which is connected to the driving-wheels, these again being coupled to other wheels in the usual way. The distribution of steam to both cylinders is effected by one piston-valve operated by a link motion, so that there is considerable mechanical simplicity in the arrangement. Later Vauclain introduced the “ balanced compound.” In this engine the two piston-rods of one side are not coupled to a common cross-head, but drive on separate
I cranks at an angle of 1800 , the pair of 1800 cranks on each side being placed at right angles.
§18. Tke Balancing of Locomotives.—The unbalanced masses of a locomotive may be divided into two parts, namely, masses which revolve, as the crank-pins, the crank-cheeks, the coupling-rods, &c.; and masses which reciprocate, made up of the piston, piston-rod, cross-head and a certain proportion of the connecting-rod. The revolving masses are truly balanced by balance weights placed between the spokes of the wheels, or sometimes by prolonging the crank-webs and forming the prolongation into balance weights. It is also the custom to balance a proportion of the reciprocating 'masses by balance weights placed between the spokes of the wheels, and the actual balance weight seen in a driving-wheel is the resultant of the separate \vcights required for the balancing of the revolving parts and the reciprocating parts. The component of a balance weight which is necessary to balance the reciprocating masses introduces a vertical unbalanced force which appears as a variation of pressure between the wheel and the rail, technically called ' the hammer-blow, the magnitude of which increases as the square of the speed of the train. In consequence of this action the compromise is usually followed of balancing only $ of the reciprocating masses, thus keeping the hammer-blow within proper limits, and allowing £ of the reciprocating masses to be unbalanced in the horizontal direction. It is not possible to do anything better with two-cylinder locomotives unless bob-weights be added, but with four-cylinder four-crank engines complete balance is possible both in the vertical and in the horizontal directions. When the four cranks are placed with two pairs at 1800 , the pairs being at 90°, the forces are balanced without the introduction of a hammer-blow, but there remain large unbalanced couples, which if balanced by means of revolving weights in the wheels again reintroduce the hammer-blow, and if left unbalanced tend to make the engine oscillate in a horizontal plane at high speed. The principles by means of which the magnitude and position of balance weights are worked out are given in the article Mechanics (Applied Mechanics), and the whole subject of locomotive balancing is exhaustively treated with numerous numerical examples in The Balancing of Engines by W. E. Dalby, London, 1906.
§19. Classification.—Locomotives may be classified primarily into “ tender engines ” and “ tank engines,” the water and fuel in the latter being carried on the engine proper, while in the former they are carried in a separate vehicle. A tender is generally mounted on six wheels, or in some cases on two bogies, and carries a larger 'supply of water and fuel than can be carried by tanks and the bunker of a tank engine. A tender, however, is so much dead-weight to be hauled, whilst the weight of the water and fuel in a tank engine contributes largely to the production of adhesion. A classification may also be made, according to the work for which engines are designed, into passenger engines, goods engines, and shunting or switching engines. A convenient way of describing any type of engine is by means of numerals indicating the number of wheels— (1) in the group of wheels supporting the leading or chimney end, (2) in the group of coupled wheels, and (3) in the group supporting the trailing end of the engine. In the case where cither the leading or trailing group of small wheels is absent the numeral o must be used in the scries of three numbers used in the description. Thus 4-4-2 represents a bogie engine with four-coupled wheels and one pair of trailing wheels, the well-known Atlantic type; 4-2-2 represents a bogie engine with a single pair of driving-wheels and a pair of trailing wheels; 0-4-4 represents an engine with four-coupled wheels and a trailing bogie, and 4-4-0 an engine with four-coupled wffieels and a leading bogie. A general description of the chief peculiarities of various kinds of locomotives is given in the following analysis of types:—
(r) “ Singlendriver |r type, 4-2-2 or 2-2-2. Still used by several railways in Great Britain for express passenger service, but going out of favour; it is also found in France, and less often in Germany, Italy, and elsewhere in Europe. It is generally designed as a 4-2-2 engine, but some old types are still running with only three axles,
the 2-2-2. It is adapted for light, high-speed service, and noted for its simplicity, excellent riding qualities, low cost of maintenance, and high mechanical efficiency; but having limited adhesive weight it is unsuitable for starting and accelerating heavy trains.
(2)    “ Four-coupled ” type, .4-4-0» with leading bogie truck. For many years this was practically the only one used in America for all traffic, and it is often spoken of as the “ American ” type. In America it is still the standard engine for passenger traffic, but for goods service it is now employed only on branch lines. It has been extensively introduced, both in Great Britain and the continent of Europe, for passenger traffic, and is now the most numerous and popular class. It is a safe, steady-running and trustworthy engine, with excellent distribution of weight, and it is susceptible of a wide range of adaptability in power requirements.
(3)    11 Four-coupled ” three-axle type, 2-4-0. Used to some extent in France and Germany and considerably in England for passenger traffic of moderate weight. Engines of this class, with 78-inch driving wheels and the leading axle fitted with Webb’s radial axle-box, for many years did excellent work on the London & North-Western railway. The famous engine 11 Charles Dickens ” was one of this class. Built in 1882, it had by the 12th of September 1891 performed the feat of running a million miles in 9 years 219 days, and it completed two million miles on the 5th of August 1902, having by that date run 5312 trips with express trains between London and Manchester.
(4)    “ Four-coupled ” three-axle type, with trailing axle, 0-4-2. Used on several English lines for fast passenger traffic, and also on many European railways. The advantages claimed for it arc: short coupling-rads, large and unlimited fire-box carried by a trailing^ axle, compactness, and great power for a given weight. Its critics, however, accuse it of lack of stability, and assert that the use of large leading wheels as drivers results in rigidity and produces destructive strains on the machinery and permanent way.
(5)    “ Four-coupled ” type, with a leading bogie truck and a trailing axle, 4-4-2. It is used to a limited extent both in England and on the continent of Europe, and is rapidly increasing in favour in the United States, where it originated and is known as the “ Atlantic ” type. It has many advantages for heavy high-speed service, namely, large and well-proportioned boiler, practically unlimited grate area, fire-box of favourable proportions for firing, fairly^ low centre of gravity, short coupling-rods, and, finally, a combination of the safe and smooth riding qualities of the four-coupled bogie type, with great steaming capacity and moderate axle loads. Occasionally a somewhat similar type is designed with the bogie under the fire-box and a single leading axle forward under the smoke-box—an arrangement in favour for suburban tank engines. In still rarer cases both a leading and a trailing bogie have been fitted.
(6)    “ Six-coupled ” with bogie, or “ Ten-wheel ” type, 4-6-0. A powerful engine for heavy passenger and fast goods service. It is used to a limited extent both in Great Britain and on the continent of Europe, but is much more common in America. The design combines ample boiler capacity with large adhesive weight and moderate axle loads, but except on heavy gradients or for unusually large trains requiring engines of great adhesion, passenger traffic can be more efficiently and economically handled by four-coupled locomotives of the eight-wheel or Atlantic types.
(7)    “ Six-coupled ” total-adhesion type (all the weight carried on the drivers), 0-6-0. This is the standard goods engine of Great Britain and the continent of Europe. ^ In America the type is used only for shunting. It is a simple design of moderate boiler power.
(8) “ Six-coupled ” type, with a leading axle, 2-6-0. This is of American origin, and is there known as the “ Mogul.” It is used largely in America for goods traffic. In Europe it is in considerable favour for goods and passenger traffic on heavy gradients. The type is, however, less in favour than either the ten-wheel or the eight-coupled “ Consolidation ” for freight traffic.
(9)    “Eight-coupled” total-adhesion type, 0-8-0; now found on a good many English railways, and common on the continent of Europe for heavy slow goods traffic. In America it is comparatively infrequent, as total-adhesion types are not in favour.
(10)    “ Eight-coupled ” type, with a leading axle, 2-&-0. This originated in America, where it is termed the “Consolidation.” In the United States it is the standard heavy slow-speed freight engine, and has been built of enormous size and weight. The type has been introduced in Europe, especially in Germany, where the advantages of a partial-adhesion type in increased stability and a larger boiler are becoming appreciated. Occasionally the American eight-coupled type has a bogie instead of a single leading axle (4-8-0), and is then termed a “ Twelve-wheeler,” or “ Mastodon.”
(11)    “Ten-coupled” type, with a leading axle, 2-10-0. This originated in America, where it is known as the “ Decapod.” It is used to a limited extent for mountain-grade goods traffic, and has the advantage over the “ Consolidation^’ or eight-coupled type of lighter axle loads for a given tractive capacity.
In addition to the foregoing list, various special locomotive types have been developed for suburban service, where high rates of acceleration and frequent stops are required. These are generally tank engines, carrying their fuel and water on the engine proper.
Their boilers are of relatively large proportions for the train weight and average speed, and the driving wheels of small diameter, a large proportion of their total weight being “ adhesive.” Other special types are in limited use for “ rack-railways,” and operate either by engagement of gearing on the locomotive into a rack between the track rails, or by a combination of this and rail adhesion.
§ 20. Current Developments.—The demand of the present day is for engines of larger power both for passenger and goods service, and the problem is to design such engines within the limitations fixed by the 4 ft. 8§ in. gauge and the dimensions of the existing tunnels, arches, and other permanent works. The American engineer is more fortunately situated than his English brother with regard to the possibility of a solution, as will be seen from the comparative diagrams of construction gauges, figs. 23, 24, 25, 26. Fig. 23 show's the construction gauge for the London & North-Western railway, fig. 24 that for the Great Western@@1 railway, fig. 25 that for the Great Eastern railway, whilst fig. 26 gives a general idea of the American gauge in a particular case, generally typical, however, of the American limits. In consequence of this increasing demand for power, higher boiler pressures are being used, in some cases 225 lb per sq. in. for a simple two-cylinder engine, and cylinder volume is slightly increased with the necessary accompaniment of heavier loads on the coupled wheels to give the necessary adhesion. Both load and speed have increased so much in connexion with passenger' trains that it is necessary to divide the weight required for adhesion between three-coupled axles, and the type of engine gradually coming into use in England for heavy express traffic is a six-coupled engine with a leading bogie, with wheels which would have been considered small a few years ago for the speed at which the engine runs. The same remarks apply to goods engines. There is a general increase in cylinder power, boiler pressure and weight, and in consequence in the number of coupled axles. Not only are the load and speed increasing, but the distances run without a stop are increasing also, and to avoid increasing the size of the tenders, water-troughs, first instituted by J. Ramsbottom on the London & North-Western railway in 1859, have been laid in the tracks of the leading main lines of Great Britain. For local services where stoppages are frequent the demand is for engines capable of quickly
@@@1 At the beginning of 1908 the Great Western's loading gauge on its main lines was widened to 9 ft. 8'in. from a height of 5 ft. above rail level.
accelerating the train to the journey speed. The nature of this problem is illustrated by the numerical example in § 9. When the service is frequent enough to give a good power factor continuously, the steam locomotive cannot compete with the electric motor for the purpose of quick acceleration, because the motors applied to the axles of a train may for a short time absorb power from the central station to an extent far in excess of anything which a locomotive boiler can supply.
With regard to the working of the locomotive, J. Holden developed the use of liquid fuel on the Great Eastern railway to a point beyond the experimental stage, and used it instead of coal with the engines running the heavy express traffic of the line, its continued use depending merely upon the relative market price of coal and oil. Compound locomotives have been tried, as stated in § 17, but the tendency in England is to revert to the simple engine for all classes of work, though on the continent of Europe and in America the compound locomotive is largely adopted, and is doing excellent work. A current development is the application of superheaters to locomotives, and the results obtained with them are exceedingly promising.
The leading dimensions of a few locomotives typical of English, American and European practice are given in Table XXII.
(W. E. D.)
Rolling Stock
The rolling stock of a railway comprises those vehicles by means of which it effects the transportation of persons and things over its lines. It may be divided into two classes, according as it is intended for passenger or for goods traffic.
Passenger Train Stock.—In the United Kingdom, as in Europe generally, the vehicles used on passenger trains include first-class carriages, second-class carriages, third-class carriages, composite carriages containing compartments for two or more classes of passengers, dining or restaurant carriages, sleeping
carriages, mail carriages or travelling post offices, luggage brake vans, horse-boxes and carriage-trucks. Passenger carriages were originally modelled on the stage-coaches which they superseded, and they are often still referred to as “ coaching stock.” Early examples had bodies about 15 ft. long, ft. wide and 4} ft. high; they weighed 3 or 4 tons, and were divided into three compartments holding six persons each, or eighteen in all.
The distinction into classes was made almost as soon as the railways began to carry passengers. Those who paid the highest fares (2§d. or 3d. a mile) were provided with covered vehicles, on the roofs of which their luggage was carried, and from the circumstance that they could book seats in advance came the term “ booking office,” still commonly applied to the office where tickets are issued. Those who travelled at the cheaper rates had at the beginning to be content with open carriages having little or no protection from the weather. Gradually, however, the accommodation improved, and by the middle of the 19th century second-class passengers had begun to enjoy “ good glass windows and cushions on the seat,” the fares they paid being about 2d. a mile. But though by an act of 1844 the railways were obliged to run at least one train a day over their lines, by which the fares did not exceed the “ Parliamentary ” rate of id. a mile, third-class passengers paying i|d. or i|d. a mile had little consideration bestowed on their comfort, and were excluded from the fast trains till 1872, when the Midland railway admitted them to all' its trains. Three years later that railway did away with second-class compartments and improved the third class to their level. This action had the effect, through the necessities of competition, of causing travellers in the cheaper classes to be better treated on other railways, and the condition of the third-class passenger was still further improved when Parliament, by the Cheap Trains Act of 1883, required the railways to provide “ due and sufficient ” train accommodation at fares not exceeding id. a mile. In the United Kingdom it is now possible to travel by every train, with very few exceptions, and in many cases to have the use of restaurant cars, for id. a mile or less, and the money obtained from third-class travellers forms by far the most important item in the revenue from passenger traffic. Since the Midland railway’s action in 1875 several other English companies have abandoned second-class carriages either completely or in part, and in Scotland they are entirely unknown. .
On the continent of Europe there are occasionally four classes, but though the local fares are often appreciably lower than in Great Britain, only first and second class, sometimes only first class, passengers are admitted to the fastest trains, for which in addition a considerable extra fare is often required. In Hungary and Russia a zone-tariff system is in operation, whereby the charge per mile decreases progressively with the length of the journey, the traveller paying according to the number of zones he has passed through and not simply according to the distance traversed. In the United States there is in most cases nominally only one class, denominated first class, and the average fare obtained by the railways is about id. per mile per passenger. But the extra charges levied for the use of parlour, sleeping and other special cars, of which some of the best trains are exclusively composed, in practice constitute a differentiation of class, besides making the real cost of travelling higher than the figures just given.
In America and other countries where distances are great and passengers have to spend several days continuously in a train sleeping and resta urant cars are almost a necessity, and accordingly are to be found on most important through trains. Such cars in the United States are largely owned, not by the railway companies over whose lines they run, but by the Pullman Car Company, which receives the extra fees paid by passengers for their use. Similarly in Europe they are often the property of the International Sleeping Car Company (Compagnie Internationale des Wagons-Lits), and the supplementary fares required from those who travel in them add materially to the cost of a journey. In the United Kingdom, where the distances are comparatively small, sleeping and dining cars must be regarded rather as luxuries; still even so, they are to be met with very frequently; The first dining car in England was run experimentally by’the Great Northern railway between London and Leeds in 1879, and now such vehicles form a common feature on express trains, being available for all classes of passengers without extra charge beyond the amount payable for food. The introduction of corridor carriages, enabling passengers to walk right through the trains, greatly increased their usefulness. The first English sleeping cars made their appearance in 1873, but they were very inferior to the vehicles now employed. In the most approved type at the present time a passage runs along one side of the car, and off it open a number of transverse compartments or berths resembling ships’ cabins, mostly for one person only, and each having a lavatory of its own with cold, and sometimes hot, water laid on. A charge of 7s. 6d. or 10s., according to distance, is made for each bed, in addition to the first-class fare. In the United States the standard sleeping car has a central alley, and along the sides are two tiers of berths, arranged lengthwise with the car and screened off from the alley by curtains. To some extent cars divided into separate compartments are also in use in that country. On the continent of Europe the typical sleeping car has transverse compartments with two berths, one placed above the other.
The first railway carriages in England had four wheels with two axles, and this construction is still largely employed, especially for short-distance trains. Later, when increased length became desirable, six wheels with three axles came into use; vehicles of this kind were made about 30 ft. long, and contained four compartments for first-class passengers or five for second or third class, carrying in the latter case fifty persons. Their weight was in the neighbourhood of 10 tons. In both the four-wheeled and the six-wheeled types the axles were free to rise and fall on springs through a limited range, but not to turn with respect to the body of the carriage, though the middle axle of the six-wheeled coach was allowed a certain amount of lateral play. Thus the length of the body was Limited, for to increase it involved an increase in the length of the rigid wheel base, which was incompatible with smooth and safe running on curves. (On the continent of Europe, however, six-wheeled vehicles aré to be' found much longer than those employed in Great Britain.) This difficulty is avoided by providing the vehicles with four axles (or six in the case of the largest and heaviest), mounted in pairs (or threes) at each end in a bogie or swivel truck, which being pivoted can move relatively to the body and adapt itself to the curvature of the line. This construction was introduced into England from America about 1874, and has since been extensively adopted, being now indeed standard for main line stock. It soon led to an increase in the length of the vehicles; thus in 1885 the Midland railway had four-wheeled bogie third-class carriages with bodies 43 ft. long, holding seventy persons in seven compartments and weighing nearly 18 tons, and sixwheeled bogie composite carriages, 54 ft. long and weighing 23 tons, which included 3 first-class and 4 third-class compartments, with a cupboard for luggage, and held 58 passengers. The next advance, introduced on the Great Western railway in 1892, was the adoption of corridor carriages having a passage along one side, off which the compartments open, and connected to each other by vestibules, so that it is possible to pass from one end of the train to the other. This arrangement involves a further increase of length and weight. For instance, four-wheeled bogie third-class corridor carriages employed on, the Midland railway at the beginning of the 20th century weighed nearly 25 tons, and had bodies measuring 50 ft.; yet they held only 36 passengers, because not only had the number of compartments been reduced to six, as compared with seven in the somewhat shorter carriage of 1885, by the introduction of a lavatory at each end, but each compartment held only 6 persons, instead of 10, owing to the narrowing of its width by the corridor.
It will be seen from these particulars—which are typical of what has happened not only on other British railways, but also on those of other countries—that much more space has to be provided and more weight hauled for each passenger than was formerly the case. Thus, on the Midland railway in 1885, each third-class passenger, supposing the carriage to have its full complement, was allowed 0-62 ft. of lineal length, and his proportion of the total weight was 5-7 cwt. Less than 20 years later the lineal length allowed each had increased to nearly 1-4 ft., and the weight to nearly 14 cwt. Passengers in sleeping cars appropriate still more space and weight; in Great Britain some of these cars, though 40 tons in weight and over 65 ft. in length, accommodate only 11 sleepers, each of whom thus occupies nearly 6 ft. of the length and requires over 3$ tons of dead weight to be hauled.
In America the long open double-bogie passenger cars, as originally introduced by Ross Winans on the Baltimore & Ohio railway, arc universally in use. They arc distinguished essentially from the British type of carriage by having in the centre of the body a longitudinal passage, about 2 ft. wide, which runs their whole length, and each car having communication with those on either side of it, the conductor, and also vendors of books, papers and cigars, are enabled to pass right through the train. The cars are entered by steps at each end, and are provided with lavatories and a supply of iced water. The length is ordinarily about 50 ft., but sometimes 80 or 90 ft. The scats, holding two persons, are placed transversely on each side of the central passage, and have reversible backs, so that passengers can always sit facing the direction in which the train is travelling. Cars of this saloon type have been introduced into England for use on railways which have adopted electric traction, but owing to the narrower loading gauge of British railways it is not usually possible to scat four persons across the width of the car for its whole length, and at the ends the seats have to be placed along the sides of the vehicle. A considerable amount of standing room is then available, and those who have to occupy it have been nicknamed “ straphangers,” from the fact that they steady themselves against the motion of the train by the aid of leather straps fixed from the roof for that purpose. Cars built almost entirely of steel, in which the proportion of wood is reduced to a minimum, are used on some electric railways, in order to diminish danger from fire, and the same mode of construction is also being adopted for the rolling stock of steam railways.
End doors opening on end platforms have always been characteristic of American passenger equipment. Their use secures a continuous passage-way through the train, but is attended with some discomfort and risk when the train is in motion. The opening of the doors was apt to cause a disagreeable draught through the car in cold weather, and passengers occasionally fell from the open platform, or were blown from it, when the train was moving. To remedy these defects vestibules were introduced, to enclose the platform with a housing so arranged as to be continuous when the cars are made up into trains, and fitted with side doors for ingress and egress when the trains are standing. A second advantage of the vestibule developed in use, for it was found that the lateral swaying of the cars was diminished by the friction between the vestibule frames. The fundamental American vestibule patent, issued to Η. H. Sessions of Chicago in November 1887, covered a housing in combination with a vertical metallic plate frame of the general contour of the central passage-way, which projected slightly beyond the line of the couplings and was held out by horizontal springs top and bottom, being connected with the platform housing by’ flexible connexions at the top and sides and by sliding plates below. A common form is illustrated in fig. 27. Subsequent improvements on the Sessions patent have resulted in a modified form of vestibule in which the housing is made the full width of the platform, though the contact plate and springs and the flexible connexions remain the same as before. The application of vestibules is practically limited to trains making long
journeys, as it is an obstruction to the free ingress and egress of passengers on local trains that make frequent stops.
In the United States the danger of the stoves that used to be employed for heating the interiors of the cars has been realized, and now the most common method is by HeaOag steam taken from the locomotive boiler and circulated through the train in a line of piping, rendered con- Bghtlng. tinuous between the cars by flexible coupling-hose. The same method is finding increased favour in Great Britain, to the supersession of the old hot-water. footwarmers. These in their simplest form are cans filled with water, which is heated by immersing them in a vessel containing boiling water. In some cases, however, they are filled with fused acetate of soda; this salt is solid when cold, but when the can containing it is heated by immersion in hot water it liquefies, and in the process absorbs heat which is given out again on the change of state back to solid. Such cans remain warm longer than those containing only hot water. On electric railways the trains are heated by electric heaters. As to lighting, the oil lamp has been largely displaced by gas and electricity. The former is often a rich oil-gas, stored in steel reservoirs under the coaches at a pressure of six or seven atmospheres, and passed through a reducing valve to the burners; these used to be of the ordinary fish-tail type, but inverted incandescent mantles are coming into increasing use. Gas has the disadvantage that in case of a collision its inflammability may assist any fire that may be started. Electric light is free from this drawback. The current required for it is generated by dynamos driven* from the axles of the coaches. With “set” or “block” trains, that is, trains having their vehicles permanently coupled up, one dynamo may serve for the whole train, but usually a dynamo is provided for each coach, which is then an
independent unit complete in itself. It is necessary that the voltage of the current shall be constant whatever be the increase of the speed of the train, and therefore of the dynamo. In most of the systems that have been proposed this result is attained by electrical regulation; in one, however, a mechanical method is adopted, the dynamo being so hung that it allows the driving belt to slip when the speed of the axle exceeds a certain limit, the armature thus being rotated at an approximately constant speed. In all the systems accumulators are required to maintain the light when the train i§ at rest or is moving too slowly to generate current.
In all countries passenger trains must vary in weight according to the different services they have to perform; suburban trains, for example, meant to hold as many passengers as possible, and travelling at low speeds, do not weigh so much as long-distance expresses, which include dining and sleeping cars, and on which, from considerations of comfort, more space must be allowed each occupant. The speed at which the journey has to be completed is obviously another important factor, though the increased power of modern locomotives permits trains to be heavier and at the same time to run as fast, and often faster, than was formerly possible, and in consequence the general tendency is towards increased weight as well as increased speed. An ordinary slow suburban train may weigh about 100 tons exclusive of the engine, and may be timed at an inclusive speed, from the beginning to the end of its journey, as low as 12 or 15 m. an hour; while usually the fastest express trains maintaining inclusive speeds of say 45 m. an hour, and made up of the heaviest and strongest rolling stock, do not much exceed 300 tons in any country, and are often less. The inclusive speed over a long journey is of course a different thing from the average running speed, on account of the time consumed in intermediate stops; the fewer the stops the more easily is the inclusive speed increased,—hence the advantage of the non-stop runs of 150 and 200 m. or more which are now performed by several railways in Great Britain, and on which average speeds of 54 or 55 m. per hour are attained between stopping-places. Over shorter distances still more rapid running is occasionally arranged, and in Great Britain, France and the United States there are instances of trains scheduled to maintain an average speed of 60 m. an hour or more between stops. Still higher speeds, up to 75 or even 80 m. an hour, are reached, and sustained for shorter or longer distances every day by express trains whose average speed between any two stopping-places is very much less. B ut isolated examples of high speeds do not give the traveller much information as to the train service at his disposal, for on the whole he is better off with a large number of trains all maintaining a good average of speed than with a service mostly consisting of poor trains, but leavened with one or two exceptionally fast ones. If both the number and the speed of the trains be taken into account, Great Britain is generally admitted still to remain well ahead of any other country.
Goods Trains.—The vehicles used for the transportation of goods are known as goods wagons or trucks in Great Britain, and as freight cars in America. The principal types to be found in the United Kingdom and on the continent of Europe are open wagons (the lading often protected from the weather by tarpaulin sheets), mineral wagons, covered or box wagons for cotton, grain, &c., sheep and cattle trucks, &c. The principal types of American freight cars are box cars, gondola cars, coal cars, stock cars, tank cars and refrigerator cars, with, as in other countries, various special cars for special purposes. Most of these terms explain themselves. The gondola or flat car corresponds to the European open wagons and is used to carry goods not liable to be injured by the weather; but in the United States the practice of covering the load with tarpaulins is unknown, and therefore the proportion of box cars is much greater than in Europe. The long hauls in the United States make it specially important that the cars should carry a load in both directions, and so box cars which have carried grain or merchandise one way are filled with wool, coal, coke, ore, timber and other coarse articles for the return journey. On this account it is common to put small end doors in American box cars, through which timber and rails may be loaded.
The fundamental difference between American freight cars and the goods wagons of Europe and other lands is in carrying capacity. In Great Britain the mineral trucks can ordinarily hold from 8 to 10 tons (long tons, 2240 lb), and the goods trucks rather less, though there are wagons in use holding 12 or 15 tons, and the specifications agreed to by the railway companies associated in the Railway Clearing House permit private wagon owners (who own about 45% of the wagon stock run on the railways of the United Kingdom) to build also wagons holding 20, 30, 40 and 56 tons. On the continent of Europe the average carrying capacity is rather higher; though wagons of less than 10 tons capacity are in use, many of those originally rated at ro tons have been rebuilt to hold 15, and the tendency is towards wagons of 15-20 tons as a standard, with others for special purposes holding 40 or 45 tons.
The majority of the wagons referred to above are comparatively short, are carried on four wheels, and are often made of wood. American cars, on the other hand, have long bodies mounted on two swivelling bogie-trucks of four wheels each, and are commonly constructed of steel. About 1875 their average capacity differed little from that of British wagons of the present day, but by 1885 it had grown to 20 or 22 short tons (2000 lb) and now'it is probably at least three times that of European wagons. For years the standard freight cars have held 60,000 lb and now many carry 80,000 lb or
100.000    lb; a few coal cars have even been built to contain
200.000    lb. This high carrying capacity has worked in several ways to reduce the cost of transportation. An ordinary British 10-ton wagon often weighs about 6 tons empty, and rarely much less than 5 tons; that is, the ratio of its possible paying load to its tare weight is at the best about 2 to 1. But an American car with a capacity of 100,000 lb may weigh only 40,000 lb, and thus the ratio of its capacity to its tare weight is only about 5 to 2. Hence less dead weight has to be hauled for each ton of paying load. In addition the increased size of the American freight car has diminished the interest on the first cost and the expenses of maintenance relatively to the work done; it has diminished to some extent the amount of track and yard room required to perform a unit of work; it has diminished journal and rolling friction relatively to the tons hauled, since these elements of train resistance grow relatively less as the load per wheel rises; and finally, it has tended to reduce the labour costs as the train loads have become greater, because no more men are required to handle a heavy train than a light one.
It is sometimes argued that if these things are true for one country they must be true for another, and that in Great Britain, for example, the use of more capacious cars would bring down the cost of carriage. It may be pointed out, however, that the social and geographical conditions are different in the United Kingdom and the United States, and in each country the methods of carrying goods and passengers have developed in accordance with the requirements of those conditions. In the one country the population is dense, large towns are numerous and close to one another, the greatest distances to be travelled are short, and relatively a large part of the freight to be carried is merchandise and manufactured material consigned in small quantities. In the other country precisely the opposite conditions exist. Under the first set of conditions quickness and flexibility of service are relatively more important than under the second set. Goods therefore are collected and despatched promptly, and, to secure rapid transit, are packed in numerous wagons, each of which goes right through to its destination, with the consequence that, so far as general merchandise is concerned, the weight carried in each is a quarter or less of its capacity. But if full loads cannot be arranged for small wagons, there is obviously no economy in introducing larger ones. On the other hand, where, as in America, the great
volume of freight is raw material and crude food-stuffs, and the distances are great, a low charge per unit of transportation is more important than any consideration such as quickness of delivery; therefore full car-loads of freight are massed into enormous trains, which run unbroken for distances of perhaps 1000 m. to a seaport or distributing centre.
The weight and speed of goods trains vary enormously according to local conditions, but the following figures, which refer to traffic on the London & North-Western railway between London and Rugby, may be taken as representative of good English practice. Coal trains, excluding the engine, weigh up to 800 or 900 tons, and travel at from 18 to 22 m. an hour; ordinary goods or merchandise trains, weighing 430 tons, travel at from 25 to 30 m. an hour; and quick merchandise trains with limited loads of 300 tons make 35 to 40 m. an hour. In the United States mineral and grain trains, running at perhaps 12 m. an hour, may weigh up to about 4000 tons, and loads of 2000 tons are common. Merchandise trains run faster and carry less. Their speed must obviously depend greatly on topographical conditions. In the great continental basin there are long lines with easy gradients and curves, while in the Allegheny and Rocky Mountains the gradients are stiff, and the curves numerous and of short radius. Such trains, therefore, range in weight from 600 to 1800 tons or even more, and the journey speeds from terminus to terminus, including stops, vary from 15 to 30 m. an hour, the rate of running rising in favourable circumstances to 40 or even 60 m. an hour.
Couplers.—The means by which vehicles are joined together into trains are of two kinds—automatic and non-automatic, the difference between them being that with the former the impact of twO vehicles one on the other is sufficient to couple them without any human intervention such as is required with the latter. The common form of non-automatic coupler, used in Great Britain for goods wagons, consists of a chain and hook; the chain hangs loosely from a slot in the draw-bar, which terminates in a hook, and coupling is effected by slipping the chain of one vehicle over the hook of the next. For this operation, or its reverse, a man has to go in between the wagons, unless, as in Great Britain, he is provided with a coupling-stick —that is, a pole having a peculiarly shaped hook at one end by which the chain can be caught and thrown on or off the drawbar hook. This coupling gear is placed centrally between a pair of buffers; formerly these were often left “ dead **—that is, consisted of solid prolongations of the frame of the vehicle, but now they are made to work against springs which take up the shocks that occur when the wagons are thrown violently against one another in shunting. In British practice the chains consist of three links, and are of such a length that when fully extended there is a space of a few inches between opposing buffers; this slack facilitates the starting of a heavy train, since the engine is able to start the wagons one by one and the weight of the train is not thrown on it all at once. For passenger trains and occasionally for fast goods trains screw couplings are substituted for the simple chains. In these the central bar which connects the two end links has screw threads cut upon it, and by means of a lever can be turned so as either to shorten the coupling and bring the vehicles together till their buffers are firmly pressed together, or to lengthen it to permit the end link to be lifted off the hook.
Another form of coupler, which used to be universal in the United States, though it has now been almost entirely superseded by the automatic coupler, was the “ link and pin,” which differed fundamentally from the couplers commonly used in Europe, in the fact that it was a buffer as well as a coupler, no side buffers being fitted. In it the draw-bar, connected through a spring to the frame of the car, had at its outboard end a socket into which one end of a solid link was inserted and secured by a pin. The essential change from the link and pin to the automatic coupler is in the outboard end or head of the draw-bar. The socket that received the link is replaced by a hook, shown at A in fig. 28, which is usually called the knuckle. This hook
swings on the pivot £, and has an arm which extends backwards, practically at right angles with the working face of the hook,
in a cavity in the head, and engages with the locking-pin C. This locking-pin is lifted by a suitable lever which extends to one or both sides of the car; lifting it releases the knuckle, which is then free to swing open, disconnecting the two cars. The knuckle stands open until the coupling is pushed against another coupling, when the two hooks turn on their pivots to the position shown in fig. 28, and, the locking-pin dropping into place, the couplers are made fast. This arrangement is only partly automatic, since it often happens that when two cars are brought together to couple the knuckles are closed and must be opened by hand. There are various contrivances by which this may be done by a man standing clear of the cars, but often he must go in between their ends to reach the knuckle.
This form of automatic coupler has now gained practically universal acceptance in the United States. To effect this result required many years of discussion and experiment. The Master Car Builders* Association, a great body of mechanical officers organized especially to being about improvement and uniformity in details of construction and operation, expressed its sense of the importance of “ self-coupling ** so far back as 1874, but no device of the kind that could be considered useful had then been invented. At that time a member of the Association referred to the disappearance of automatic couplers which had been introduced thirty or forty years before. This body pursued the subject with more or less diligence, and in 1884 laid down the principle that the automatic coupler should be one acting in a vertical plane—that is, the engaging faces should be free to move up and down within a considerable range, in order to provide for the differences in the height of cars. By the fixing of this principle the task of the inventor was considerably simplified. In 1887 a committee reported that the coupler question was the “ knottiest mechanical problem that had ever been presented to the railroad,** and over 4000 attempted solutions were on record in the United States Patent Office. The committee had not found one that did not possess grave disadvantages, but concluded that the “ principle of contact of the surfaces of vertical surfaces embodied in the Janney coupler afforded the best connexion for cars on curves and tangents ”; and in 1887 the Association recommended the adoption of a coupler of the Janney type, which, as developed later, is shown in fig. 28. The method of constructing the working faces of this coupler is shown in fig. 29. The principle was patented, but the company owning the patent undertook to permit its free use by railway companies which were members of the Master Car Builders* Association, and thus threw open the underlying orinciple to competition. From that time the numerous patents have had reference merely to details. Many different couplers of the Janney type are patented and made by different firms,, but the tendency is to equip new cars with one of only four or five standard makes. The adoption of automatic couplers was stimulated in some degree by laws enacted by the various states and by the United States; and the Safety Appliance Act passed by Congress in 1893 made it unlawful for railways to permit to be hauled on their lines after the 1st of January 1898 any car used for interstate commerce that was not equipped with couplers which coupled automatically by impact, and which could be uncoupled without the necessity for men going in between the ends of the cars. The limit was extended to the ist of August 1900 by the Interstate Commerce Commission, which was given discretioil in the matter.
.. Automatic couplers resembling the Janney are adopted in a few special cases in Great Britain and other European countries, but the great majority of couplings remain non-automatic. It may be pointed out that the general employment of side buffers in Europe greatly complicates the problem of designing a satisfactory automatic coupling, while to do away with them and substitute the combined buffer-coupling, such as is used in the United States, would entail enormous difficulties in carrying on the traffic during the transition stage.
Brakes.—In the United States the Safety Appliance Act of 1893 also forbade the railways, after the 1st of January 1898, to run trains which did not contain a “ sufficient number ” of cars equipped with continuous brakes to enable the speed to be controlled from the engine. This law, however, did not serve in practice to secure so general a use of power brakes on freight trains as was thought desirable, and another act was passed in 1903 to give the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to prescribe what should be the minimum number of power-braked cars in each train. This minimum was at first fixed at 50%, but on and-after the 1st of August 1906 it was raised to 75%, with the result that soon after that date practically all the rolling stock of American railways, whether passenger or freight, was provided with compressed air brakes. In the United Kingdom the Regulation of Railways Act 1889 empowered the Board of Trade to require all passenger trains, within a reasonable period, to be fitted with automatic continuous brakes, and now all the passenger stock, with a few trifling exceptions, is provided with either compressed-air or vacuum brakes (see Brake), and sometimes with both. But goods and mineral trains so fitted are rare, and the same is the case on the continent of Europe, where, however, such brakes are generally employed on passenger trains.    (H. M. R.)
Intra-Urban Railways
The great concentration of population in cities during the 19th century brought into existence a class of railways to which the name of intra-urban may be applied. Such lines are primarily intended to supply quick means of passenger communication within the limits of cities, and are to be distinguished on the one hand from surface tramways, and on the other from those portions of trunk or other lines which he within city boundaries, although the latter may incidentally do a local or intra-urban business. Intra-urban railways, as compared with ordinary railways, are characterized by shortness of length, great cost per mile, and by a traffic almost exclusively passenger, the burden of which is enormously heavy. For the purpose of connecting the greatest possible number of points of concentrated travel, the first
railways were laid round the boundaries of areas approximately circular, the theory being that the short walk from the circumference of the circle to any point within it would be no serious detention. It *has been found, however, in the case of such circular or belt railways, that the time lost in traversing the circle and in walking from the circumference to the centre is so great that the gain in journey speed over a direct surface tramway or omnibus is entirely lost. Later intra-urban railways in nearly every case have been built, so far as possible, on straight lines, radiating from the business centre or point of maximum congestion of travel to the outer limits of the city; and, while not attempting to serve all the population through the agency of the line, make an effort to serve a portion in the best possible manner—that is, with direct transit.
The actual beginning of the construction of intra-urban railways was in 1853, when powers were obtained to build a line, 2jm. long, from Edgware Road to King's Cross, in London, from which beginning the Metropolitan and Metropolitan District railways developed. These railways, which in part are operated jointly, were given a circular location, but the shortcomings of this plan soon became apparent. It was found that there was not sufficient traffic to support them as purely intra-urban lines, and they have since been extended into the outskirts of London to reach the suburban traffic.
The Metropolitan and Metropolitan District railways followed the art of railway1 : building as it existed at the time they were laid out. Wherever possible the b’nes were constructed in open cutting, to ensure adequate ventilation; and where this was not possible they were built by a method suggestively named “ cut and cover." A trench was first excavated to the proper depth, then the side walls and arched roof of brick were put in place, earth was filled in behind and over the arch, and the surface of the ground restored, either by paving where streets were followed, or by actually being built over with houses where the lines passed under private property. Where the depth to rail-level wr as too great for cut-and-cover methods, ordinary tunnelling processes were used; and where the trench was too shallow for the arched roof, heavy girders, sometimes of cast iron, bridged it between the side walls, longitudinal arches being turned between them (fig. 30).
The next development in intra-urban railways was an elevated line in the city of New York. Probably the first suggestion for an elevated railway was made by Colonel Stevens, of Hoboken, New Jersey, as early as 1831, when the whole art of railway construction was in its infancy. He proposed to build an elevated railway on a single line of posts, placed along the curb-line of the street: a suggestion which embodies not only the general plan of an elevated structure, but the most striking feature of it as subsequently built—namely, a railway supported
by a single row of columns. The first actual work, however, was not begun till 1870, when the construction of an iron structure on a single row of columns was undertaken. The superiority, so far as the convenience of passengers is concerned, of an elevated over an underground railway, when both are worked by steam locomotives, and the great economy and rapidity of construction, led to the quick development and extension of this general design. By the year 1878 there were four parallel lines in the dty of New York, and constructions of the same character had already been projected in Brooklyn and Chicago and, with certain modifications of details, in Berlin. In the year 1894 an elevated railway was built in Liverpool, and in 1900 a similar railway was constructed in Boston, U.S.A., and the construction of a new one undertaken in New York. These elevated railways as a rule follow the lines of streets, and are of two general types. One (fig. 31), the earliest form, consisted of a single row of columns supporting two lines of longitudinal girders carrying the rails, the lateral stability of the structure being obtained by anchoring the feet of the columns to their foundations.
The other type (fig. 32) has two rows of columns connected at the top by transverse girders, which in turn carry the longitudinal girders that support the railway. In Berlin, on the Stadtbahn—which for a part of its length traverses private property—masonry arches, or earthen embankments between retaining walls, were substituted for the metallic structure wherever possible.
The next great development, marking, the third step in the progress of intra-urban railway construction, took place in 1886, when J. H. Great head (1q.v.) began the City & South London railway, extending under the Thames from the Monument to Stockwell, a distance of 3J m. Its promoters recognized the unsuitability of ordinary steam locomotives for underground railways, and intended to work it by means of a moving cable; but before it was completed, electric traction had developed so far as to be available for use on such lines. Electricity, therefore, and not the cable, was installed (fig. 33). In the details of construction the shield was the novelty. In principle it had been invented by Sir Marc I. Brunei for the construction of the original Thames tunnel, and it was afterwards improved by Beach, of New York, and finally developed by Greathead. (For the details of the shield and method of its operation, see Tunnel.) By means of the shield Great-head cut a circular hole at a depth ranging from 40 to 80 ft.
below the surface, with an external diameter of 10 ft. 9 in.; this he lined with cast-iron segments bolted together, giving a
clear diameter of 10 ft. 2 in. Except at the shafts, which were sunk on proposed station sites, there was no interference with the surface of the streets or with street traffic during construction. Two tunnels were built approximately parallel, each taking a single track. The cross-section of the cars was made to conform approximately to the section of the tunnel, the idea being that each train would act like a piston in a cylinder, expelling in front of it a column of air, to be forced up the station shaft next ahead of the train, and sucking down a similar column through the station shaft just behind. This arrangement was expected to ensure a sufficient change in air to keep such railways properly ventilated, but experience has proved it to be ineffective for the purpose. This method of construction has been used for building other railways in Glasgow and London, and in the latter city alone the “ tube railways ” of this character have a length of some 40 m. The later examples of these railways have a diameter ranging from 13 to 15 ft.
The fourth step in the development of intra-urban railways was to go to the other extreme from the deep tunnel which Greathead introduced. In 1893 the construction was completed in Budapest of an underground railway with a thin, flat roof, consisting of steel beams set close together, with small longitudinal jack arches between them, the street pavement
resting directly on the roof thus formed (fig. 34). The object was to bring the level of the station platforms as close to the
surface of the street as the height of the car itself would permit; in the case of Budapest the distance is about 9 ft. This principle of construction has since been followed in the construction of the Boston‘subway, of the Chemin de Fer Métropolitain in Paris, and of the New York underground railway. The Paris line is built with the standard gauge of 4 ft in., but its tunnels are designedly made of such a small cross-section that ordinary main line stock cannot pass through them.
The New York underground railway (fig. 35) marks a still further step in advance, in that there are practically two
different railways in the same structure. One pair of tracks is used for a local service with stations about one-quarter of a mile apart, following the general plan of operation in vogue on all other intra-urban railways. The other, or central, pair of tracks is for trains making stops at longer distances. Thus there is a differentiation between the long-distance traveller who desires to be carried from one extreme of the city to the other and the short-distance traveller who is going between points at a much less distance.
To sum up, there are of intra-urban railways two distinct classes: the elevated and the underground. The elevated is used where the traffic is so light as not to warrant the expensive underground construction, or where the construction of an elevated line is of no serious detriment to the adjoining property. The underground is used where the congestion of traffic is so great as to demand a railway almost regardless of cost, and where the conditions of surface traffic or of adjoining property are such as to require that the railway shall not obstruct or occupy any ground above the surface.
Underground railways are of three general types: the one of extreme depth, built by tunneUing methods, usually with the shield and without regard to the surface topography, where the stations are put at such depth as to require lifts to carry the passengers from the station platform to the street level. This type has the advantage of economy in first construction, there being the minimum amount of material to be excavated, and no interference during construction with street traffic or subsurface structures; it has, however, the disadvantage of the cost of operation of lifts at the stations. The other extreme type is the shallow construction, where the railway is brought to the minimum distance below the street level. This system has the advantage of the greatest convenience in operation, no lifts being required, since the distance from the street surface to the station platform is about 12 to 15 ft.; it has the disadvantages, however, of necessitating the tearing up of the street surface during construction, and the readjustment of sewer, water, gas and electric mains and other subsurface structures, and of having the gradients partially dependent on the surface topography. The third type is the intermediate one between those two, followed by the Metropolitan and Metropolitan District railways, in London, where the railway has an arched roof, built usually at a sufficient distance below the surface of the street to permit the other subsurface structures to lie in the ground above the crown of the arch, and where the station platforms are from 20 to 30 ft. beneath the surface of the street—a depth not sufficient to warrant the introduction of lifts, but enough to be inconvenient.
In the operation of intra-urban railways, steam locomotives, cables and electricity have severally been tried: the first having been used in the earlier examples of underground lines and in the various elevated systems in the United States. The fouling of the air that results from the steam-engine, owing to the production of carbonic acid gas and of sulphurous fumes and aqueous vapour, is well known, and its use is now practically abandoned for underground working. The cable is slow; and unless development along new lines of compressed air or some sort of chemical engine takes place, electricity will monopolize the field. Electricity is applied through a separate locomotive attached to the head of the train, or through motor carriages attached either at one end or at both ends of the train, or by putting a motor on every axle and so utilizing the whole weight of the train for traction, all the motors being under a single control at the head of the train, or at any point of the train for emergency. The distance between stations on intra-urban railways is governed by the density of local traffic and the speed desired to be maintained. As a general rule the interval varies from one-quarter to one-half mile; on the express lines of the New York underground railway, the inter-station interval averages about m. On steam-worked lines the speed of trains is about rr to 15 m. per hour, according to the distance between stations Later practice takes advantage of the great increase in power that can be temporarily developed by electric motors during the period of acceleration; this, in proportion to the weight of the train to be hauled, gives results much in advance of those obtained on ordinary steam railways. Since high average speed on a line with frequent stops depends largely on rapidity of acceleration, the tendency in modern equipment is to secure as great an output of power as possible during the accelerating period, with corresponding increase in weight available for adhesion. With a steam locomotive all the power is concentrated in one machine, and therefore the weight on the drivers available for adhesion is limited. With electricity, power can be applied to as many axles in the train as desired, and so the whole weight of the train, with its load, may be utilized if necessary. Sometimes, as on the Central London railway, the acceleration of gravity is also utilized; the different stations stand, as it were, on the top of a hill, so that outgoing trains are aided at the start by having a slope to run down, while incoming ones are checked by the rising gradient they encounter.
The cost of intra-urban railways depends not only on the type of construction, but more especially upon local conditions, such as the nature of the soil, the presence of subsurface structures, like sewers, water and gas mains, electric conduits, &c.; the necessity of permanent underpinning or temporary supporting of house foundations, the cost of acquiring land passed under or over wr hen street lines are not followed, and, in the case of elevated railways, the cost of acquiring easements of light, air and access, which the courts have held are vested in the abutting property. The cost of building an ordinary two-track elevated railway according to American practice varies from $300,000 to $400,000 a mile, exclusive of equipment, terminals or land damages. The cost of constructing the deep tubular tunnels in London, whose diameter is about 15 ft. exclusive, in like manner, of equipment, terminals or land damages, is about £170,000 to £200,000 a mile. The cost of the Metropolitan and Metropolitan District railways of London varied greatly on account of the variations in construction. The most difficult section—namely, that under Cannon Street— where the abutting buildings had to be underpinned·, and a very dense traffic maintained during construction, while a network of sewers and mains was readjusted, cost at the rate of about £r,000,000 a mile. The contract price of the New York underground railway, exclusive of the incidentals above mentioned, was $35,000,000 for 21 m., of which 16 m. are underground and 5 are elevated. The most difficult portion of the road, 4J m. of four-track line, cost $15,000,000.    (W. B. P.)
Light Railways
The term light railways is somewhat vague and indefinite, and therefore to give a precise definition of its significance is not an easy matter. No adequate definition is to be found even in the British statute-book; for although parliament has on different occasions passed acts dealing with such railways both in Great Britain and Ireland, it has not inserted in any of them a clear and sufficient statement of what it intends shall be understood by the term, as distinguished from an ordinary railway. Since the passing of the Light Railways Act of 1896, which did not apply to Ireland, it is possible to give a formal definition by saying that a light railway is one constructed under the provisions of that act; but it must be noted that the commissioners appointed under that act have authorized many lines which in their physical characteristics arc indistinguishable from street tramways constructed under the Tramways Act, and to these the term light railways would certainly not be applied in ordinary parlance. Still, they do differ from ordinary tramways in the important fact that the procedure by which they have been authorized is simpler and cheaper than the methods by which special private acts of parliament have to be obtained for tramway projects. Economy in capital outlay and cheapness in construction is indeed the characteristic generally associated with light railways by the public, and implicitly attached to them by parliament in the act of 1896, and any simplifications of the engineering or mechanical features they may exhibit compared with the standard railways of the country are mainly, if not entirely, due to the desire to keep down their expenses.
The saving of cost is effected in two ways: (1) Instead of having to incur the expenses of a protracted inquiry before parliament, the promoters of a light railway under the act of 1896 make an application to the light railway commissioners, who then hold a local inquiry, to obtain evidence of the usefulness of the proposed railway, and to hear objections to it, and, if they are satisfied, settle the draft order and hand it over to the Board of Trade for confirmation. The Board may reject the order if it thinks the scheme to be of such magnitude or importance that it ought to come under the direct consideration of parliament, or it may modify it in certain respects, or it may remit it to the commissioners for further inquiry. But once the order is confirmed by the Board, with or without modifications, it has effect as if it had been enacted by parliament, and it cannot afterwards be upset on the ground of any alleged irregularity in the proceedings. (2) The second source of economy is to be sought in the reduced cost of actually making the line and of working it when made. Thus the gauge may be narrow, the line single, the rails lighter than those used in standard practice, while deep cuttings and high embankments may be avoided by permitting the curves to be sharper and the gradients steeper: such points conduce to cheapness of construction. Again, low speeds, light stock, less stringent requirements as to continuous brakes, signals, block-working and interlocking, road-crossings, stations, &c., tend to cheapness in working. On the lines actually authorized by the Board of Trade under the 1896 act the normal minimum radius of the curves has been fixed at about 600 ft.; when a still smaller radius has been necessary, the speed has been reduced to 10 m. an hour and a guard-rail insisted on inside the curve. Again, the speed has been restricted to 20 m. an hour on long inclines with gradients steeper than 1 in 50, and also on a line which had scarcely any straight portions and in which there were many curves of 600 ft. radius and gradients of 1 in 50. In the case of a line of 2J ft. gauge, with a ruling gradient of 1 in 40, a maximum speed of 15 m. an hour and a minimum radius of curve of 300 ft. have been prescribed. Curves of still smaller radius have entailed a maximum speed of 10 m. an hour. It must be understood that a railway described as “ light ” is not necessarily built of narrower gauge than the standard. Many lines, indeed, have been designed on the normal 4 ft. 8§ in. gauge, and laid with rails weighing from 50 to 70 lb per yard; a flat-footed 60 lb rail,
with the axle load limited to 14 tons, has the advantage for such lines that it permits the employment of a proportion of the locomotives used on main lines. The orders actually granted have allowed 50 lb, 56 lb, 60 lb and 70 lb rails, with corresponding axle loads of 10, 12, 14 and 16 tons. On a line of 2 ft. gauge, rails of 40 lb have been sanctioned. In regard to fencing and precautions at level-crossings, less rigid requirements may be enforced than with standard railways; and in some cases where trains arc likely to be few, it has been provided that the normal position of the gates at crossings shall be across the line. Again, if the speed is low and the trains infrequent, the signalling arrangements may be of a very simple and inexpensive kind, or even dispensed with altogether. It should be mentioned that the act provided that the Treasury might advance a portion of the money required for a line in cases where the council of any county, borough or district had agreed to do the same, and might also make a special advance in aid of a fight railway which was certified by the Board of e Agriculture to be beneficial to agriculture in any cultivated district, or by the Board of Trade to furnish a means of communication between a fishing-harbour and a market in a district where it would not be constructed without special assistance from the state.
As a general classification the commissioners have divided the schemes that have come before them into three classes: (A) those which like ordinary railways take their own fine across country; (B) those in connexion with which it is proposed to use the public roads conjointly with the ordinary road traffic; and (Neutral) which includes inclined railways worked with a rope, and fines which possess the conditions of A and B in about equal porportions.
The Light Railways Act 1896 was to remain in force only until the end of 1901 unless continued by parliament, but it was continued year by year under the Expiring Laws Continuance Act. In 1901 the president of the Board of Trade introduced a bill to continue the act until 1906, and to amend it so as to make it authorize the construction of a fight railway on any highway, the object being to abolish the restriction that a light railway should run into the area of at least two local authorities; but it was not proceeded with. Towards the end of 1901 a departmental committee of the Board of Trade was formed to consider the Light Railways Act, and in 1902 the president of the Board of Trade (Mr Gerald Balfour) stated that as a result of the deliberations of this committee, a new bill had been drafted which he thought would go very far to meet all the reasonable objections that had been urged against the present powers of the local authorities. This bill, however, was not brought forward. In July 1903, Lord Wolverton, on behalf of the Board of Trade, introduced a bill to continue and amend the Light Railways Act. It provided that the powers of the fight railway commissioners should continue until determined by parliament, and also provided, inter alia, that in cases where the Board of Trade thought, under section (9) subsection (3) of the original act, that a proposal should be submitted to parliament, the Board of Trade itself might submit the proposals to parliament by bringing in a bill for the confirmation of the light railway order, with a special report upon it. Opposition on petition could be heard before a select committee or a joint committee as in the case of private bills. The bill was withdrawn on the nth of August 1903, Lord Morley appealing to the Board of Trade to bring in a more comprehensive measure to amend the unsatisfactory state of legislation in relation to tramways and fight railways. In 1904 the president of the Board of Trade brought in a bill on practically the same fines as the amending bill of 1903. It reached second reading but was not proceeded with. Similar amending bills were introduced in the 1905 and 1906 sessions, but were withdrawn. During the first ten years after the act came into force 545 applications for orders were received, 313 orders were made, and 282 orders were confirmed. The orders confirmed were for 1731 m., involving an estimated capital expenditure of £12,770,384. At the end of 1906 only 500 m. had been opened for traffic, and the mileage of lines
opened was much less in proportion to the mileage sanctioned in the cases of lines constructed on their own land than in the case of Unes more of the nature of tramways. (In other countries where the mileage of main Unes of railways in proportion to area and population is roughly the same as in the United Kingdom, the mileage of Ught railways already constructed is considerable, while many additional Unes are under construction. At the end of 1903 there were 6150 m. working in France, costing on an average £4500 per mile, earning £275 per mile per annum; 3730 miles in Prussia costing £4180 per mile, earning £310 per mile per annum; 1430 m. in Belgium at £3400 per mile, earning £320 per mile per annum.) The average cost per mile in Great Britain on the basis of the prescribed estimates is £5860, but this figure does not include the cost of equipment and does not cover the whole cost of construction. According to the Ught railway commissioners, experience satisfied them (a) that Ught railways were much needed in many parts of the country and that many of the Unes proposed, but not constructed, were in fact necessary to admit of the progress, and even the maintenance, of existing trade interests; and (6) that improved means of access were requisite to assist in retaining the population on the land, to counteract the remoteness of rural districts, and also, in the neighbourhood of industrial centres, to cope with the difficulties as to housing and the supply of labour. They pointed out that while during the first five years the act was in force there were 315 appUca-tions for orders, during the second five years there were only 142 appUcations, and that proposals for new Unes had become less numerous owing to the various difficulties in carrying them to a successful completion and to the difficulty of raising the necessary capital even when part of it was provided with the aid of the state and of the local authorities. They expressed the opinion that an improvement could be effected enabUng the construction of many much-needed Unes by an amendment of some of the provisions of the Light Railways Act, and by a reconsideration of the conditions under which financial or other assistance should be granted to such Unes by the state and by local authorities.
The so-called light railways in the United States and the British colonies have been made under the conditions peculiar to new countries. Their primary object being the development and peopUng of the land, they have naturaUy been made as cheaply as possible; and as in such cases the cost of the land is inconsiderable, economy has been sought by the use of lighter and rougher permanent way, plant, roUing stock, &c. Such railways are not “ light ” in the technical sense of having been made under enactments intended to secure permanent lowness of cost as compared with standard Unes. On the continent of Europe many countries have encouraged railways which are Ught in that sense. France began to move in this direction in 1865, and has formulated elaborate provisions for their construction and regulation. Italy did the same in its laws in 1873, 1879, i88r, 1887 and 1889; and Germany fostered enterprise of this kind by the imperial edicts of 1875, 1878 and 1892. HoUand, Hungary and Switzerland were all early in the field; and Belgium has succeeded, through the in-strumentaUty of the semi-official Société Nationale de Chemins de Fer Vicinaux, started in 1885, in developing one of the most complete systems of rural railway transport in the world.
In France the lines which best correspond to British light railways are called Chemins de fer d'intérêt local. These are regulated by a decree No. 11,264 of 6th August 1881, which the Ministry of Public Works is charged to carry out. The model 11 form of regulation ” lays down the scales of the drawings andthe information to be shown thereon. For the first.installation a single line is prescribed, but the concessionaire must provide space and be prepared to double when required. The gauge may be either 1*44 metres (4 ft. 8-7 in.), or 1 metre (3 ft. 3*37 in.), or *75 metre (2 ft. 5-5 in.). The radius of curves for the 1-44 m. gauge must not be less than 250 metres, 100 metres for the 1 m. gauge and 50 metres for the -75 m. gauge. A straight length of not less than 60 metres for the largest gauge and 40 metres for the smallest must be made^ between two curves having opposite directions. Except in special cases, gradients must not exceed 3 in 100; and between gradients in the opposite sense there must be not less than 60 metres of level for 1-44 m. and 40 metres for 1 m. and *75 m. gauges. The position of stations and stopping-places is regulated by the council of the department. The undertaking, once approved, is regarded as a work of public utility, and the undertakers are invested with all the rights that a public department would have in the case of the carrying out of public works. At the end of the period of the concession the department comes into possession of the road and all its fixed appurtenances, and in the last five years of the period the department has the right to enter into possession of the line, and apply the revenue to putting it into a thorough state of repair. It has also the right to purchase the undertaking at the end of the first fifteen years, the net profits of the preceding seven years to govern the calculation of the purchase price. The maximum 1st, 2nd and 3rd class passenger fares are, per kilometre, -067 f. (*6d.), -050 f. (*455d.) and -037 f. (^d.) respectively, when the trains are run at grande vitesse, the fares including 30 kilogrammes weight of personal baggage.
In Belgium a public company under government control (“ Societe Nationale de Chemins de Fer Vicinaux ”) does all that in France forms the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and of the prefect of the department. Over an average of years it appears that 27% of the capital cost was found by the state, 28% by the province, 40-9% by the communes and 4-1% by private individuals. At the end of 1908 there were 2085 m. in operation, and the total mileage authorized was 2603, while the construction of a considerable further mileage was under consideration. As far as possible, these railways are laid beside roads, in preference _ to^ independent formation; the permanent way costs £977 per mile in the former as against £793 in the latter. If laid in paving, the price varies between £1108 and £2266 per mile. Through villages, and where roads have to be crossed, the line is of the usual tramway type. The line is of 1 metre gauge, with steel raijs weighing 21J kilos (42 lb) per yard. In the towns a deeper rail is used, weighing about 60 lb per yard. In three lines of the Vicinaux system, in the aggregate 45 m. in length, the sharpest curves are 30 metres, 35 metres and 40 metres respectively. There are gradients of 1 in 20 and 1 in 25. The speed is limited to 30 kilometres (about 18 m.) in the country and 6 m. per hour in towns and through villages.
In Italy many railways which otherwise fulfil the conditions of a light railway are constructed with a gauge of 4 ft. 81 in. The weights are governed by what the railway has to carry and the speed. Light locomotives, light rails and light rolling stock are employed. There are no bridges, except where watercourses occur. Cuttings are reduced to a minimum; and where the roads are sufficiently wide, the rails are laid on the margins. The advantage of uniformity of gauge is in the use of trucks for goods which belong to the rolling stock of the main lines. In Italy these railways are called 11 economic railways,’* and are divided into five types. Types I., II. and III. are of 4 ft. 8£ in. gauge, type IV. of 0*95 m. and type V. of 0*70 m.; but as there is no example of type V., the classification is practically one of 1*445 m. (4 ft. 8J in.) and one of 0-95 (3 ft. 0*5 in.). The chief difference between the^ first three types lies in the weight of rails and rolling stock and in the radius of the curves. The real light railway of Italy is that of type IV.: gauge, 0*95 m. (3 ft. 0*5 in.); weight of rails, 12 (26*45 lb) to 20 (44 lb) kilos; mean load per axle, 6 tons; minimum curve, 70 m. (229 ft. 2*6 in.) radius; width of formation, 3*50 m. (11 ft. 5*5 in.); top width of ballast, 2· 10 m. (6 ft. 10-7 in.); depth of ballast under sleepers, 0*10 m. (3 ft. 9*5 in.); maximum gradient, I in 50; length of sleepers, 1*70 m. (5 ft. 6*92 in.); width between parapets and width of tunnels, 1 m. over width of carriage; height of tunnels, 5 m. (16 ft. 4-85 in.); locomotives, maximum weight per axle 6 tons, rigid wheel base i*8o m. (5 ft. io*86 in.), diameter of driving-wheels 1 m. (3 ft. 3*37 in.).
In Germany the use of light railways (Klein-bahnen) has made great strides. The gauges in use vary considerably between 4 ft. 8J in., the standard national gauge, and 1 ft. nf in., aermany. which appears to be the smallest in use. They are under the control of the Post and Telegraph department, the state issuing loans to encourage the undertakings; the authorities in the provinces and communes also give support in various ways, and under various conditions, to public bodies or private persons who desire to promote or embark in the industry. These conditions, as well as the degree of control over the construction and working of the lines, are left to the regulation of the provincial governments. Similarly, the same authorities decide for themselves the conditions under which the public roads may be used, and the precautions for public safety, all subject to the confirmation of the imperial government.
What are known as “ portable railways ” should be included in the same category as Ught railways. With a 24 in. gauge, Unes of a portable kind can be made very handily and the cost is very much less than that of a permanently constructed Ught railway. The simplicity is great; they can be quickly mounted and dismounted; the correct gauge can be perfectly maintained; the sections of rails and
sleepers (which are of iron) are very portable, and skilled labour is not required to lay or to take them up; the making of a “ turn-out ” is easy, by taking out a 15 ft. section of the way and substituting a section with points and crossings. The safe load per wheel varies between 12 cwt. on a 10 in. 16 lb wheel and 40 cwt. on an 18 in. 56 lb wheel. The rolling stock is constructed either for farm produce or heavy minerals, the latter holding 10 to 27 cub. ft. For timber, 4 or $ ft. bogies can be used. A useful wagon for agricultural transport on a 24 in. gauge line is 16 ft. long by 5 ft. wide; it weighs 72 cwt. and costs £30. A portable line of this kind will have 20 lb steel rails and 2112 steel sleepers—4 ft. 6 in. long—to a mile, laid 2 ft. 6 in. apart centre to centre. The total cost per mile of such a line, including all bolts, nuts, fish-plates and fastenings, ready for laying, delivered in the United Kingdom, is under £500 a mile.
See Evans Austin, The Light Railways Act 1896, which contains the rules of the Board of Trade; W. H. Cole, Light Railways at Home and Abroad; Lieut.-Col. Addison, Report to the Board of Trade (1894) on Light Railways in Belgium.    (C. E. W.; E. Ga.)
RAIMBACH, ABRAHAM (1776-1843), English line-engraver, a Swiss by descent, was born in London in 1776. Educated at Archbishop Tenison's Library School, he was an apprentice to J. Hall the engraver from 1789 to 1796. For nine years part of his working-time was devoted to the study of drawing in the Royal Academy and to executing occasional engravings for the booksellers, whilst his leisure hours were employed in painting portraits in miniature. Having formed an intimacy with Sir David Wilkie, Raimbach in 1812 began to engrave some of that master's best pictures. At his death, in 1843, he held a gold medal awarded to him for his “ Village Politicians ” at the Paris Exhibition of 1814. He was elected corresponding member of the Institute of France in 1835.
RAIMUND, FERDINAND (1790-1836), Austrian actor and dramatist, was bom on the 1st of June 1790, in Vienna. In 1814 he acted at the Josefstadter Theater, and in 1817 at the Leopoldstadter Theater. In 1823 he produced his first play, Dcr Barolnctermacher auf der Zauberinscl, which was followed by Der Diamant des Geisterkonigs (1824) and the still popular Bauer als Milliondr. The last-mentioned play, which appeared in 1S26, Der Alpenkonig ttnd der Menschenfeind (1828) and Der Verschwender (1833) are Raimund's masterpieces. He committed suicide on the 5th of September 1836, owing to the fear that he had been bitten by a mad dog. Raimund was a master of the Viennese Posse or farce; his rich humour is seen to best advantage in his realistic portraits of his fellow-citizens.
Raimund’s Samtliche Werke (with biography by J. N. Vogl) appeared in 4 vols. (1837); they have been also edited by K. Glossy and A. Sauer (4 vols., 1881; 2nd ed., 1891), and a selection by E. Castle (1903). See E. Schmidt in Charakteristiken, vol. i. (1886); A. Farinelli, Grillparzer und Raimund (1897); L. A. Frankl, Zur Biographie F. Raimunds (1884); and especially A. Sauer’s article in the Allgem. Deutsche Biographie.
RAIN (O.E. regn; the word is common to Teutonic languages, cf. Ger. Regen, Swed. and Dan. regn; it has been connected with Lat. rigare, to wet, Gr. βρ£χαν), the water vapour of the Atmosphere when condensed into drops large enough to be precipitated upon the earth. Hence the term is extended to signify the fall of such drops in a shower, and in the plural, “ the rains," it signifies the rainy seasons in India and elsewhere where under normal climatic conditions such seasons are dearly distinguished from the dry. A rain-band is “ a dark band in the solar spectrum, caused by the presence of water-vapour in the atmosphere ” (New Engl. Diet.); a rain-gauge is an instrument used to measure the amount of rainfall (see Meteorology, where the whole subject of precipitation is'/ully treated).
RAINBOW, formerly known as the iris, the coloured rings seen in the heavens when the light from the sun or moon shines on falling rain; on a smaller scale they may be observed when sunshine falls on the spray of a waterfall or fountain. The bows assume the form of concentric drcular arcs, having their common centre on the line joining the eye of the observer to the sun. G$nerally only one bow is dearly seen; this is known as the primary rainbow; it has an angular radius of about 41°, and exhibits a fine display of the colours of the spectrum, being red on the outside and violet on the inside. Sometimes an outer bow, the secondary rainbow, is observed; this is much fainter than the primary bow, and it exhibits the same play of colours, with the important distinction that the order is reversed, the red being inside and the violet outside. Its angular radius is about 570 . It is also to be noticed that the space between the two bows is considerably darker than the rest of the sky. In addition to these prominent features, there are sometimes to be seen a number of coloured bands, situated at or near the summits of the bows, close to the inner edge of the primary and the outer edge of the secondary bow; these are known as the spurious, supernumerary or complementary rainbows.
The formation of the rainbow in the heavens after or during a shower must have attracted the attention of man in remote antiquity. The earliest references are to be found in the various accounts of the Deluge. In the Biblical narrative (Gen. ix. 12-17) the bow is introduced as a sign of the covenant between God and man, a figure without a parallel in the other accounts. Among the Greeks and Romans various speculations as to the cause of the bow were indulged in; Aristotle, in his Meteors, erroneously ascribes it to the reflection of the sun's rays by the rain; Seneca adopted the same view. The introduction of the idea that the phenomenon was caused by refraction is to be assigned to Vitellio. The same conception was utilized by Theodoric of Vriberg, a Dominican, who wrote at some time hetween 1304 and 1311 a tract entitled De radialibus impressionibus, in which he showed how the primary bow is formed by two refractions and one internal reflection; i.e. the light enters the drop and is refracted; the refracted ray is then reflected at the opposite surface of the drop, and leaves the drop at the same side at which it enters, being again refracted. It is difficult to determine the influence which the writings of Theodoric had on his successors; his works were apparently unknown until they were discovered by G. B. Venturi at Basel, partly in the city library and partly in the library of the Dominican monastery. A full account, together with other early contributions to the science of light, is given in Venturi's Commentari sopra la sloria de la Teoria del Ottica (Bologna, 1814). John Fleischer (sometimes incorrectly named Fletcher), of Breslau, propounded the same view in a pamphlet, De iridibus doctrina Aristotelis et Vitellonis (1574); the same explanation was given by Franciscus Maurolycus in his Photismi de lumine et umbra (1575).
The most valuable of all the earlier contributions to the scientific explanation of rainbow’s is undoubtedly a treatise by Marco Antonio de Dominis (1566-1624), archbishop of Spalatro. This work, De radiis visscs et lucis in vitris per spec· tivis et iride, published at Venice in 1611 by J. Bartolus, although written some twf enty years previously, contains a chapter entitled “ Vera iridis tota generatio explicatur," in which it is shown how the primary how is formed by two refractions and one reflection, and the secondary bow by two refractions and tw’O reflections. Descartes strengthened these views, both by experiments and geometrical investigations, in his Meteors (Leiden, 1637). He employed the law of refraction (discovered .by W. Snellius) to calculate the radii of the bows, and his theoretical angles wr ere in agreement with those observed. His methods, however, were not free from tentative assumptions, and were considerably improved by Edmund Halley (Phil. Trans., 1700, 714). Descartes, however, could advance no satisfactory explanation of the chromatic displays; this was effected by Sir Isaac Newton, wT ho, having explained how white light is composed of rays possessing all degrees of refrangibility, was enabled to demonstrate that the order of the colours wT as in perfect accord with the requirements of theory (see Newton's Opticks, hook i. part 2, prop. 9).
The geometrical theory, wdiich formed the basis of the investigations of Descartes and Newton, afforded no explanation of the supernumerary bow’s, and about a century elapsed before an explanation was forthcoming. This was given by Thomas Young, who, in the Bakerian lecture delivered before the Royal Society on the 24th of Novcmher 1S03, applied his principle
of the interference of light to this phenomenon. His not wholly satisfactory explanation was mathematically examined in 1835 by Richard Potter (Camb. Phil. Trans., 1838, 6, 141), who, while improving the theory, left a more complete solution to be made in 1838 by Sir George Biddell Airy {Camb. Phil. Trans., 1838, 6, 379).
The geometrical theory first requires a consideration of the path of a ray of light falling upon a transparent sphere. Of the total amount of light falling on such a sphere, part is reflected or scattered at the incident surface, so rendering the drop visible, while a part will enter the drop. Confining our attention to a ray entering in a principal plane, we will determine its deviation, i.e. the angle between its directions of incidence and emergence, after one, two, three or more internal reflections. Let EA be a ray incident at an angle i (fig. 1); let AD be the refracted ray, and r the angle of refraction. Then the deviation experienced by the ray at A is i-r. If the ray suffers one internal reflection at £>, then it is readily seen that, if DB be the path of the reflected ray, the angle ADB equals 2r, i.e. the deviation of the ray at D is x-2r. At B, where the ray leaves the drop, the deviation is the same as at A, viz. % — r. The total deviation of the ray is consequently given by D = 2(i-r)+x-2r.
Similarly it may be shown that each internal reflection introduces a supplementary deviation of x—2r; hence, if the ray be reflected n times, the total deviation will be D = 2(i—r)+n (x—2r). ^
The deviation is thus seen to vary with the angle of incidence; and by considering a set of parallel rays passing through the same principal plane of the sphere and incident at all angles, it can be readily shown that more rays will pass in the neighbourhood of the position of minimum deviation than in any other position (see Refraction). The drop will consequently be more intensely illuminated when viewed along these^ directions of minimum deviation, and since it is these rays with which we are primarily concerned, we shall proceed to the determination of these directions.
Since the angles of incidence and refraction are/connected by the relation sinV=/x sin r (Snell’s Law), m being the index of refraction of the medium, then the problem may be stated as follows: to determine the value of the angle i which makes D = 2 {i-r) +«(x-2r) a maximum or minimum, in which i and r are connected by the relation sin i=/x sin r, /x being a constant. By applying the method of the differential calculus, we obtain cos i = V((m*—i)/(«2 +2w)) as the required value; it may be readily shown either geometrically or analytically that this is a minimum. For the angle i to be real, cos i must be a fraction, that is n*+2«>/i* — 1, or («+i)*>m2 · Since the value of m for water is about f, it follows that « must be at least unity for a rainbow to be formed; there is obviously no theoretical limit to the value of n, and hence rainbows of higher orders are possible.
So far we have only considered rays of homogeneous light, and it remains to investigate how lights of varying refrangibilities will be transmitted. It can be shown, by the methods of the differential calculus or geometrically, that the deviation increases with the refractive index, the angle of incidence remaining constant. Taking the refractive index of water for the red rays as and for the violet rays as W, we can calculate the following values for the minimum deviations corresponding to certain assigned values of n.
To this point we have only considered rays passing through a principal section of the drop ; in nature, however, the rays impinge at every point of the surface facing the sun. It may be readily deduced that the directions of minimum deviation for a pencil of parallel rays lie on the surface of cones, the semi-vertical angles of which are equal to the values given in the above table. Thus, rays suffering one internal reflection will all lie within a cone of about 42°; in this direction the illumination will be most intense; within the cone the illumination will be fainter, while, without it, no light will be transmitted to the eye.
Fig. 2 represents sections of the drop and the cones containing the minimum deviation rays after 1, 2, 3 and 4 reflections; the order of the »colours is shown by the letters R (red) and V (violet). It is apparent, therefore, that all drops transmitting intense light after one internal reflection to the eye will lie on the surfaces of cones having the eye for their common vertex, the line joining the eye to the sun for their axis, and their semi-vertical angles equal to about 41° for the violet rays and 430 for the red rays. The observer will, therefore, see a coloured band, about 2° in width, and coloured violet inside and red outside. Within the band, the illumination will be faint; outside the band there will be perceptible darkening until the second bow comes into view. Similarly, drops transmitting rays after two internal reflections will be situated on covertical and coaxial cones, of which the semi-vertical angles are 510 for the red rays and 540 for the violet. Outside the cone of 540 there will be faint illumination; within it, no secondary rays will be transmitted to the eye. We thus see that the order of colours in the secondary bow is the reverse of that in the primary; the secondary is half as broad again (30 ), and is much fainter, owing to the longer path of the ray in the drop, and the increased dispersion.
Similarly, the third, fourth and higher orders of bows may be investigated. The third and fourth bows are situated between the observer and the sun, and hence, to be viewed, the observer must face the sun. But the illumination of the bow is so weakened by the repeated reflections, and the light of the sun is generally so bright, that these bows are rarely, if ever, observed except in artificial rainbows. The same remarks apply to the fifth bow, which differs from the third and fourth in being situated in the same part of the sky as the primary and secondary bows, being just above the secondary.    >    #
The most conspicuous colour band of the principal bows is the red; the other colours shading off into one another, generally with considerable blurring. This is due to the superposition of a great number of spectra, for the sun has an appreciable apparent diameter, and each point on its surface gives rise to an individual spectrum. This overlapping may become so pronounced as to produce a rainbow in which colour is practically absent; this is particularly so when a thin cloud intervenes between the sun and the rain, which has the effect of increasing the apparent diameter of the sun to as much as 20 or 30 . This phenomenon is known as the “ white rainbow ” or 11 Ulloa’s Ring or Circle,” after Antonio de Ulloa.
We have now to consider the so-called spurious bows which are sometimes seen at the inner edge of the primary and at the outer edge of the secondary bow. The geometrical theory can afford no explanation of these coloured bands, and it has been shown that the complete phenomenon of the rainbow is to be sought for in the conceptions of the wave theory of light. This was first suggested by Thomas Young, who showed that the rays producing the bows consisted of two systems, which, although emerging in parallel directions, traversed different paths in the drop. Destructive interference between these superposed rays will therefore occur, and, instead of a continuous maximum illumination in the direction of minimum deviation, we should _ expect to find alternations of brightness and darkness. The later investigations of Richard Potter ana especially of Sir George Biddell Airy have proved the correctness of Young’s idea. The mathematical discussion of Airy showed that the primary rainbow is not situated directly on the line of minimum deviation, but at a slightly greater value;
! this means that the true angular radius of the bow is a little less than that derived from the geometrical theory. In the same way, he showed that the secondary bow has a greater radius than that previously assigned to it. The spurious bows he showed to consist of a series of dark and bright bands, whose distances from the principal bows vary with the diameters of the raindrops. The smaller the drops, the greater the distance; hence it is that the spurious bows are generally only observed near the summits of the bows, where the drops are smaller than at any lower altitude. In Airy’s investigation, and in the extensions by Boitel, J. Larmor, E. Mascart and L. Lorentz, the source of light was regarded as a point. In nature, however, this is not realized, for the sun has an appreciable diameter. Calculations taking this into account have been made by J. Pernter {Neues über den Regenbogen, Vienna, 1888) and by K. Aichi and T. Tanakadate {Jour. College of Science, Tokyo, 1906, vol. xxi. art. 3).
Experimental confirmation of Airy's theoretical results was afforded in 1842 by William Hallows Miller {Camb. Phil. Trans, yii. 277). A horizontal pencil of sunlight was admitted by a vertical slit, and then allowed to fall on a column of water supplied by a jet of about ^ffth of an inch in diameter. Primary, secondary and spurious bows were formed, and their radii measured; a comparison of these observations exhibited agreement with Airy’s analytical values. Pulfrich {Wied. Ann., 1888, 33, 194) obtained similar results by using cylindrical glass rods in place of the column of water.
In accordance with a general consequence of reflection and refraction, it is readily seen that the light of the rainbow is partially polarized, a fact first observed in 1811 by Jean Baptiste Biot (see Polarization).
Lunar rainbows. The moon can produce rainbows in the same manner as the sun. The colours are much fainter^ and according to Aristotle, who claims to be the first observer of this phenomenon, the lunar bows are only seen when the moon is full.
Marine rainbow is the name given to the chromatic displays formed by the sun’s rays falling on the spray drawn up by the wind playing on the surface of an agitated sea.
Intersecting rainbows are sometimes observed. They are formed by parallel rays of light emanating from two sources, as, for example, the sun and its image in a sheet of^water, which is situated between the observer and the sun. In this case the second bow is much fainter, and has its centre as much above the horizon as that of the direct system is below it.
References.—For the history of the theory of the rainbow, see G. B. Venturi, Commentari sopra la storia de la teoria del Ottica (Bologna, 1814); F. Rosenberger, GeschichU der Physik (1882-90). The geometrical and physical theory is treated in T. Preston’s Theory of Light; E. Mascart’s TraitS d'optiquc (1899-1903); and most completely by J. Pernter in various contributions to scientific journals and in his Meteorologische Optik (1905-9),
RAINOLDS (or Reynolds), JOHN (1549-1607), English divine, was born about Michaelmas 1549 at Pinhoe, near Exeter, and was educated at Merton and Corpus Christi Colleges, Oxford, becoming a fellow of the latter in 1568. In 1572-73 he was appointed reader in Greek, and his lectures on Aristotle’s Rhetoric laid the sure basis of his fame. He resigned the office in 1578 and his fellowship in 1586, through inability to agree with the president William Cole, and became a tutor at Queen’s College. By this time he had acquired a considerable reputation as a disputant on the Puritan side, and the story goes that Elizabeth visiting the university in 1592 “ schooled him for his obstinate preciseness, willing him to follow her laws, and not run before them.” In 1593 he was made deau of Lincoln. The fellows of Corpus were anxious to replace Cole by Rainolds, and exchange, was effected, Rainolds being elected president in December 1598. The chief events of his subsequent career were his share in the Hampton Court Conference, where he was the most prominent representative of the Puritan party and received a good deal of favour from the king, and in the Authorized Version of the Bible. Of this project he was initiator, and himself worked with the company who undertook the translation of the Prophets. He died of consumption on the 21st of May 1607, leaving a great reputation for scholarship and high character.
RAINY, ROBERT (1826-1906), Scotch Presbyterian divine, was born on the 1st of January 1826; his father, Dr Harry Rainy, professor of forensic medicine in Glasgow University, was the son of a Sutherlandshire minister. Young Rainy was intended for his father’s profession, but he was caught by the evangelical fervour of the Disruption movement, and after studying for the Free Church he became a minister, first in 'Aberdeenshire and then in Edinburgh, till in 1862 he was elected professor of Church history in the theological seminary, New College, a post he only resigned in 1900. In 1874 he was made principal of the college and was subsequently known as Principal Rainy. He had come to the front as a champion of the liberal party in the Union controversy within the Free Church, and in combating Dean Stanley’s Broad Church views in the interests of Scotch evangclicism; and about 1875 he became the undisputed leader of the Free Church. He guided it through the controversies as to Robertson Smith’s heresies, as to the use of hymns and instrumental music, and as to the Declaratory Act, brought to a successful issue the union of the Free and United Presbyterian Churches, and threw the weight of the united church on the side of freedom ,of Biblical criticism. He was the first moderator of the General Assembly of the United Free Church of Scotland, having previously been moderator of the Free General Assembly. Though not a great scholar, he was eminent as an ecclesiastical statesman, and his influence was far-reaching. After the strain of the fight with the so-called “ Wee Frees ” in 1904-5 his health broke down, and he went to Australia for recovery, but died at Melbourne on the 22nd of December 1906.
See Lives by P. Carnegie Simpson (1909) and R. Mackintosh (1907).
RAIPUR, a town and district of British India, in the Chhattis-garh division of the Central Provinces. The town is 994 ft. above sea-level, 188 m. E. of Nagpur; and has a station on the Bengal-Nagpur railway. Pop. (1901) 32,114. There are ruins of an immense fort, with many tanks and old temples. It has a German mission and a government high school. The Raj-kumar college, for the education of the sons of the chiefs of Chhattisgarh, was transferred here from Jubbulpore in 1894*
The District of Raipur has an area of 9831 sq. m. It spreads over a vast plateau closed in by ranges of hills branching from the great Vindhyan chain. It'is drained by tbc Seonath and the Mahanadi rivers. Geologically the country consists in the hilly tracts of gneiss and quartzite; the sandstone rocks in the west are intersected with trap dykes. Iron ore is abundant, and red ochre of high repute is found. In the interior the principal strata are a soft sandstone slate (covered generally by a layer of late rite gravel) and blue limestone, which crops out in numerous places on the surface and is invariably found in the beds of the rivers. Throughout the plains the soil is generally fertile. The climate is generally good; the mean temperature is 78° F., and the annual rainfall averages 55 in. The population on the present area in 1901 was 1,096,858, showing a decrease of 2*5% in the decade. The principal crop is rice. There are manufactures of cotton goods and brassware. The north-west corner of the district is crossed by the main line of the Bengal-Nagpur railway, and a narrow-gauge branch runs from Raipur town due south. The district suffered severely from famine in 1896-97, and again in 1899-1900.
Raipur was governed by a branch of the Haihaivansi dynasty of Ratanpur for many centuries until their deposition by the Mahrattas in 1750. The country was then already in a condition of decay, and soon afterwards it relapsed into absolute anarchy. In 1818 it was taken under British superintendence and made rapid progress. It fell with the rest of the Nagpur dominions to the British government in 1854. In 1906 its area was reduced by the formation of the new district of Drug.
RAIS (or Retz), GILLES DE (1404-1440), marshal of France and the central figure of a 15th-century cause cilbbre, whose name is associated with the story of Bluebeard, was the son of Guy de Montmorency-Laval, the adopted son and heir of Jeanne de Rais and of Marie de Craon. He was born at Machc-coul in September or October 1404, and, being early left an orphan, was educated by his maternal grandfather, Jean de Craon. Chief among his great possessions was the barony of Rais (erected in the 16th century into the peerage-duchy of Retz), south of the Loire, on the marches of Brittany. He joined the party of the Montforts, supporting Jean V. of Brittany against the rival house of Penthievre. He helped to release Duke John from Olivier de Blois, count of Penthievre, who had taken him prisoner by craft, and was rewarded by extensive grants of land, which were subsequently commuted by the Breton parliament for money payments. In 1420, after other projects of marriage had fallen through, in two cases by the death of the bride, he married Katherine of Thouars, a great heiress in Brittany, La Vend6e and Poitou. In 1426 he raised seven companies of men-at-arms, and began active warfare against the English under Artus de Richemont, the newly made constable of France. He had already built up a military reputation when he was chosen to accompany Joan of Arc to Orleans. He continued to be her special protector, fighting by her side at Orleans, and afterwards at Jar-geau and Patay. He had advocated further measures against the English on the Loire before carrying out the coronation of Charles VII. at Reims. On the 17th of July he was made marshal of France at Reims, and after the assault on Paris he was granted the right to bear the arms of France as a border to his shield, a privilege that was, however, never ratified. In the winter he was in Normandy, at Louviers, whether with a view to the release of Joan, then a prisoner at Rouen, cannot be stated. Meanwhile his fortune was disappearing, although he had been one of the richest men in France. He had expended great sums in the king’s service, and he maintained a court of
knights, squires, heralds and priests, more suited to royal than baronial rank. He kept open house, was a munificent patron of literature and of music, and his lihrary contained many valuable works, he himself being a skilled illuminator and binder. He also indulged a passion for the stage. At the chief festivals he gave performances of mysteries and moralities, and it has been asserted that the Mystère de la Passion, acted at Angers in 1420, was staged by him in honour of his own marriage. The original draft of the Mystery of Orleans was prohahly written under his direction, and contains much detail which may be well accounted for by his intimate acquaintance with the Maid. In his financial difficulties he began to alienate his lands, selling his estates for small sums. These proceedings provided his heirs with material for lawsuits for many years. Among those who profited by his prodigality were the duke of Brittany, and his chancellor, Jean de Malestrôit, bishop of Nantes, but in 1436 his kinsfolk appealed to Charles VII., who proclaimed further sales to he illegal. Jean V. refused to acknowledge the king’s right to promulgate a decree of this kind in Brittany, and replied by making Gilles de Rais lieutenant of Brittany and by acknowledging him as a brother-in-arms. Gilles hoped to redeem his fortunes by alchemy; he also spent large sums on necromancers, who engaged to raise the devil for his assistance. On the other hand he sought to guarantee himself from evil consequences by extravagant charity and a splendid celebration of the rites of the church. The abominable practices of which he was really guilty seem not to have heen suspected by his equals or superiors, though he had many accomplices and his criminality was suspected by the peasantry. His wife finally left him in 1434-35, and may possibly have become acquainted with his doings, and when his hrother Rene de la Suze seized Champtocé, all traces of his crimes had not been removed, but family considerations no douht imposed silence. His servants kidnapped children, generally boys, on his behalf, and these he tortured and murdered. The number of his victims was stated in the ecclesiastical trial to have been 140, and larger figures are quoted. The amazing impunity which he enjoyed was brought to an end in 1440, when he was imprudent enough to come into conflict with the church by an act of violence which involved sacrilege and infringement of clerical immunity. He had sold Saint Étienne de Malemort to the duke of Brittany’s treasurer, G effroi le Ferron. In the course of a quarrel over the delivery of the property to this man’s brother, Jean le Ferron, Gilles seized Jean, who was in clerical orders, in church, and imprisoned him. He then proceeded to defy the duke, but was reconciled to him by Richemont. In the autumn, however, he was arrested and cited before the bishop of Nantes on various charges, the chief of which were heresy and murder. With the latter count the ecclesiastical court was incompetent to deal, and on the 8th of October Gilles refused to accept its jurisdiction. Terrified by excommunication, however, he acknowledged the evidence of the witnesses, and by confession he secured absolution. He had been pronounced guilty of apostasy and heresy by the inquisitor, and of vice and sacrilege by the bishop. A detailed confession was extracted by the threat of torture on the 21st of Octoher. A separate and parallel inquiry was made by Pierre de l’Hôpital, president of the Breton parliament, by whose sentence he was hanged (not burned alive as is sometimes stated), on the 26th of October 1440, with two of his accomplices. In view of his own repeated confessions it seems impossible to doubt his guilt, but the numerous irregularities of the proceedings, the fact that his necromancer Prelati and other of his chief accomplices went unpunished, taken together with the financial interest of Jean V. in his ruin, have left a certain mystery over a trial, which, with the exception of the process of Joan of Arc, was the most famous in 15th-century France. His name is connected with the tale of Bluebeard (q.v.) in local tradition at Machecoul, Tiffauges, Poraic and Chéméré, though the similarity between the two histories is at best ’vague. The records of the trial are preserved in the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris, at Nantes and elsewhere.
See Eugène Bossard, Gilles de Rais, dit Barbe Bleue (2nd ed., 1886), which includes the majority of the documents of the trial published originally by De Maulde; E. A. Vizetelly, Bluebeard (1902); H. C. Lea, Hist, of the Inquisition (iii. 468, seq.) ; A. Molinier, Les Sources de Vhistoire de France (No. 4185). Huysmans in Là-bas describes his hero as engaged on a life of Gilles de Rais, and takes the opportunity for a striking picture of the trial.
RAISIN (Fr. raisin, grape; Lat. racemus), the name given to the dried fruits of certain varieties of the grape vine, Vitis vinifera, which grow principally in the warm climate of the Mediterranean coasts and are comparatively rich in sugar. The use of dried grapes or raisins as food is of great antiquity (Num. vi. 3; 1 .Sam. xxv. 18, xxx. 12). In medieval times raisins imported from Spain were a prized luxury in England, and. to the present day Great Britain continues to be the best customer of the raisin-producing regions. “ Raisins of the sun ” are obtained by letting the fruit continue on the vines after it has come to maturity, where there is sufficient sunshine and heat in the autumn, till the clusters dry on the stocks. Another plan is partially to sever the stalk before the grapes are quite ripe, thus stopping the flow of the sap, and in that condition to leave them on the vines till they are sufficiently dry. The more usual process, however, is to cut off the fully ripe clusters and expose them, spread out, for several days to the rays of the sun, taking care that they are not injured by rain. In unfavourable weather they may be dried in a heated chamber, but are then inferior in quality. In some parts of Spain and France it is common to dip the gathered clusters in boiling water, or in a strong potash lye, a practice which softens the skin, favours drying and gives the raisins a clear glossy appearance. Again, in Asia Minor the fruit is dipped into hot water on the surface of which swims a layer of olive oil, which communicates a bright lustre and softness to the skin. Some superior varieties are treated with very great care, retained on their stalks, and sent into the market as clusters for table use; but the greater part are separated from the stalks in the process of drying and the stalks winnowed out of the fruit. Raisins come from numerous Mediterranean localities, and present at least three distinct varieties—(1) ordinary or large raisins, (2) sultana seedless raisins, and (3) currants or Corinthian raisins (see Currant). The greater proportion of the common large raisins of English commerce comes from the provinces of Malaga, Valencia and Alicante in Spain; these are known by the common name of Malaga raisins. Those of the finest quality, called Malaga clusters, are prepared from a variety of muscatel grape, and preserved on the stalks for table use. This variety, as well as Malaga layers, so called from the manner of packing, are exclusively used as dessert fruit. Raisins of a somewhat inferior quality, known as “ lexias,” from the same provinces, are used for cooking and baking purposes. Smyrna raisins also come to some extent into the English market. The best quality, known as Elemé, is a large fruit, having a reddish-yellow skin with a sweet pleasant flavour. Large-seeded dark-coloured raisins are produced in some of the islands of the Greek archipelago and in Crete, but they are little seen in the British markets. In Italy the finest raisins are produced in Calabria, inferior qualities in central Italy and in Sicily. From the Lipari Islands a certain quantity of cluster raisins of good quality is sent to England. In the south of France raisins of high excellence—Provence raisins in clusters—are obtained at Roquevaire, Lunel and Frontignan. Sultana seedless raisins are the produce of a small variety of yellow grape, cultivated exclusively in the neighbourhood of Smyrna. The vines are grown on a soil of decomposed hippurite limestone, on sloping ground rising to a height of 400 ft. above the sea, and all attempts to cultivate sultanas in other raisin-growing localities have failed, the grapes quickly reverting to a seed-bearing character. The dried fruit has a fine golden-yellow colour, with a thin, delicate, translucent skin and a sweet aromatic flavour. A very fine seedless oblong raisin of the sultana type with a brownish skin is cultivated in the neighbourhood of Damascus.
RAJA, the Hindu title for a chief, or prince, derived from the same root as the Latin rex. Other forms are rao, rana and rawal, while chiefs of high rank are styled maharaja, maharao and maharana. The Hindustani form is rai, and the title of the Hindu emperor of Vijayanagar in S. India was raya. It is not confined to the rulers of native states, being conferred by the British government on Hindu subjects, sometimes as an hereditary distinction. In the form of rao it appears as a suffix to the names of most Mahrattas, and to the names of Kanarese Brahmans.
RAJAHMUNDRY, or Rajamahendri, a town of British India, in the Godavari district of Madras. Pop. (1901) 36,408. It stands on the left bank of the river Godavari, at the head of the delta, 360 m. N. of Madras, and has a station on the East Coast railway, which is here carried across the river by a bridge of 56 spans. The government college is one of the four provincial schools established in 1853. There are also a training college and high school. Carpets, rugs and wooden wares are manufactured.
Tradition divides the merit of founding Rajahmundry between the Orissa and Chalukya princes. In 1470 it was wrested from Orissa by the Mahommedans, but early in the 16th century it was retaken by Krishna Raja. It continued under Hindu rule till 1572, when it yielded to the Moslems of the Deccan under Rafat Khan. It passed into the possession of the French in 1753, but they were driven out by the British under Colonel Forde in 1758.
RAJASTHANI (properly RAjasthXnI, the language of Rajasthan of Rajputana), an Indo-Aryan vernacular closely related to Gujarati (q.v.). It is spoken in Rajputana and the adjoining parts of central India, and has several dialects the principal of which are Jaipur!, Marwap, Mewat! and Malvi. Harau(!, an important variety of Jaipur!, is spoken in the states of Kota and Bundi. Carey, the well-known Seram-pur missionary, paid great attention to Rajasthani in the early part of the 19th century, translating the New Testament into no fewer than six dialects, viz. Haraup, Ujain! (i.e. Malvl), Udaipur! (a form of Marwap), Marwap proper, Jaipur! proper and BikAngri (another form of Marwap). In 1901 the total number of speakers of Rajasthan! was 10,917,712. (G. A. Gr.)
RAJGARH, a native state of central India, in the Bhopal agency. Area, 940 sq. m. Pop. (1901) 88,376, showing a decrease of 26% in the decade, due to the results of famine. Estimated revenue, £33,000; tribute (to Sindhia), £3640. The chief, whose title is rawat, is a Rajput of the Umat clan. Grain and opium are the principal articles of trade. The town of Rajgarh, which is surrounded by a battlemented wall, had a population of 5399 in 190Γ.
RAJKOT, India, capital of a native state in Bombay, and headquarters of the political agent for Kathiawar. Pop. (1901) 36,151. It is situated in the middle of the peninsula of Kathiawar, and is the centre of the railway system. There is a military cantonment. The Rajkumar college, for the education of the sons of chiefs on the lines of an English public school, has achieved great success. Besides the high school there are training colleges for masters and mistresses. The Rasulkhanji hospital has a department for women, opened in 1897. All these institutions are maintained at the joint expense of the chiefs of Kathiawar. The state of Rajkot, which is a branch of Nawanagar, has an area of 282 sq. m. Pop. (1901) 49,795. Estimated revenue, £20,000.
RAJMAHAL, a former capital of Bengal, India, now a village in the district of the Santal Parganas, situated on the right bank of the Ganges, where that river makes a turn to the south. Pop. (190T) 2047. It was chosen for his residence by Man Singh, Akbar’s Rajput general in 1592, but the capital of the province was shortly afterwards transferred to Dacca. It contains many palaces and mosques, now in ruins and overgrown with jungle. It has a station on the loop line of the East Indian railway, but trade has declined since the Ganges abandoned its old bed; and Sahibganj has taken its place. Rajmahal has given its name to a range of hills, almost the only hills in
Bengal proper, which here come down close to the bank of the Ganges. They cover a total area of 1366 sq. m., and their height never exceeds 2000 ft. They are inhabited by an ab original race, known as Paharias or “hill-men,” of whom two tribes may be distinguished: the Male Sauria Paharias and the Mai Paharias; total pop. (1901) 73,000. The former, if not the latter also, are closely akin to the larger tribe of Oraons. Their language, known as Malto, of the Dravidian family, was spoken by 60,777 persons in 1901. The Paharias have contributed an element to the administrative history of Bengal. Augustus Clevland, a civilian who died in 1784 and whose name is still honoured, was the first who succeeded in winning their confidence and recruiting among them a corps of hill-rangers. The methods that he adopted are the foundation of the “ nonregulation ” system, established in 1796; and the hills were exempted from the permanent settlement. The Santals, a different aboriginal race, have since immigrated in large numbers into the Daman-i-koh, or “ skirts of the hills ”; but the Paharias alone occupy the plateaux on the top, where they arc permitted to practise the privilege of shifting cultivation, which renders scientific forestry impossible. The approach from the plains below to each plateau is guarded by a steep ladder of boulders.
See E. \V. Dalton, Descriptive 'Ethnology of Bengal (Calcutta, 1872); F. B. Bradley-Birt, The Story of an Indian Upland (1905).
RAJPIPLA, a native state of India, in the Rewa Kantha agency, Bombay, occupying a hilly tract between the rivers Ncrbudda and Tapti; area, 1517 sq. m. Pop. (1901) 117,175, showing a decrease of 32% in the decade, due to the results of famine; estimated revenue, £60,000; tribute (to the Gaekwar of Baroda), £3000. The chief, whose title is maharana, is a Gohel Rajput, of the same family as the thakor saheb of Bhau-nagar. A light railway, constructed at the cost of the state, connects Nandod with Anklesvar in Broach district. The old fort of Rajpipla, in the hills, is now deserted. The modern capital is Nandod, situated on the river Karjan, 32 m. from Surat. Pop. (1901) 11,236.
RAJPUT, a race of India, not confined to Rajputana, but spread over the N. of the country. According to the census of 1901 there were 9,712,156 Rajputs in all India, of whom only 620,229 lived hi Rajputana. The great majority adhere to the Hindu religion, but 1,875,387 are entered as Mahommedans. The Rajputs form the fighting, landowning and ruling caste. They claim to be the modem representatives of the Kshatriyas of ancient tradition; but their early history is obscure, and recent research supports the view that they include descendants of more than one wave of immigrant invaders. Linguistic evidence supports tradition in proving that their unity was broken up by the Mahommedan conquest, for the Inhabitants of the Himalayan valleys still speak a language akin to those of Rajputana proper, though separated from them by the wide Gangetic valley.
The Rajputs are fine, brave men, and retain the feudal instinct strongly developed. Pride of blood is their chief characteristic, and they are most punctilious on all points of etiquette. The tradition of common ancestry permits a poor Rajput yeoman to consider himself as well bora as any powerful landholder of his clan, and superior to any high official of the professional classes. No race in India can boast of finer feats of arms or brighter deeds of chivalry, and they form one of the main recruiting fields for the Indian army of to-day. They consider any occupation other than that of arms or government derogatory to their dignity, and consequently during the long period of peace which has followed the establishment of the British rule in India they have been content to stay idle at home instead of taking up any of the other professions in which they might have come to the front. Those who are not zamindars have, therefore, rather dropped behind in the modern struggle for existence. As cultivators they are lazy and indifferent, and they prefer pastoral to agricultural pursuits. Looking upon all manual labour as humiliating, none but the poorest class of Rajput wall himself hold the plough.
Within the limits of Rajputana the Rajputs form a vast body of kindred, and any Rajput can marry any Rajput woman who does not belong to his own clan. The most numerous of the clans is the Rahtor, to which the chiefs of Marwar, Bikanir and Kishangarh belong. Its strength in 1901 was 122,160. Next comes the Kachwaha clan, which is strong in Jaipur and Alwar, both chiefs belonging to its members. It numbers 100,r86. The Chauhan follows with an aggregate of 86,460, among whom are the chiefs of Bundi, Kotah and Sirohi. The Jadu or Jadon, which includes in its ranks the chiefs of Karauli and Jaisalmer, numbers 74,666. The Sisodhyias, who include the ancient and illustrious house of Udaipur, number 51,366. The Ponwar clan, to which Vikramaditya, the celebrated king of Ujjain, from whom the Hindu Era is named, is said to have belonged, numbers 43,435. The Solanki and Parihar clans, once powerful, are now only 18,949 and 9448 respectively.
RAJPUTANA, a collection of native states in India, under the political charge of an agent to the governor-general, who resides at Abu in the Aravalli Hills. It lies between 230 and 30° N. and between 69° 30' and 750 15' E., and includes 18 states and 2 estates or chiefships. For political purposes these are subdivided into eight subordinate groups, consisting of three residencies and five agencies. These are as follow: (1) Mewar residency, with headquarters at Udaipur, comprising the states of Udaipur (Mewar), Dungarpur, Partabgarh and Banswara; (2) Jaipur residency, with headquarters at Jaipur, comprising the states of Jaipur and Kishangarh, with the estate of Lawa; (3) Western Rajputana states residency, with headquarters at Jodhpur, comprising the states of Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Sirohi; (4) Bikanir agency, with headquarters at Bikanir; (5) Alwar agency, with headquarters at Alwar; (6) Eastern Rajputana states agency, with headquarters at Bharatpur, comprising the states of Bharatpur, Dholpur, and Karauli; (7) Haraoti-Tonk agency, with headquarters at Deoli, comprising the states of Tank and Bundi, with the estate of Shah-pura; (8) Kotah-Jhalawar agency, with headquarters at Kotah, comprising the states of Kotah and Jhalawar. All of these states are under Rajput rulers, except Tonk, which is Mahommedan, and Bharatpur and Dholpur, which are Jat. The small British province of Ajmere-Merwara is also included within the geographical area of Rajputana.
Physical Features.—The total area of Rajputana is about 127,541 sq. m. It is bounded on the west by Sind, and on the north-west by the Punjab state of Bahawalpur. Thence its northern and northeastern frontier marches with tne Punjab and the United Provinces until it touches the river Chambal, where it turns south-eastward for about 200 m., dividing the states of Dholpur, Karauli, Jaipur and Kotah from Gwalior. The southern boundary runs in a very irregular line across the central region of India, dividing the Rajputana states from a number of native states in Central India and Gujarat. The most striking physical feature is the Aravalli range of mountains, which intersects the country almost from end to end in a line running from south-west to north-east. Mount Abu is at the south-western extremity of the range, and the north-eastern end may be said to terminate near Khetn in the Shaikhawati district of Jaipur, although a series of broken ridges is continued in the direction of Delhi. About three-fifths of Rajputana lies north-west of the range, leaving two-fifths on the east and south. The tract lying to the north-west contains the states of Bikanir, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur. With the exception of the sub-montane districts of Jodhpur, which lie immediately below the Aravallis, this division is sandy, ill-watered and unproductive, improving gradually from a desert in the northwest and west to comparatively fertile land on the east. The country to the east and south-east of the Aravallis affords a striking contrast to the sandy plains on the north-west of the range, and is blessed with fertile lands, hill-ranges and long stretches of forest, where fuel and fodder are abundant.
The chief rivers of Rajputana are the Luni, the Chambal and the Banas. The first of these, the only river of any consequence in the north-western division, flows for 200 m. from the Pushkar valley, close to Ajmere, to the Runn of Cutch. In the southeastern division the^ river system is important. The Chambal is bv far the largest river in Rajputana, through which it flows for about one-third of its course, while it forms its boundary for another third. The source of the river is in the highlands of the Vindhyas, upwards of 2000 ft. above the sea; it soon becomes a considerable stream, collecting in its course the waters of other rivers, and finally discharging itself into the Jumna after a course of 560 m. Next in importance ranks the Banas, which rises in the south-west near
Kankroli in Udaipur. It collects nearly all the drainage of the Udaipur plateau with that of the eastern slopes and hill-tracts of the Aravallis, and joins the Chambal a little beyond the northeastern extremity of the Bundi state, after a course of about 300 m. Other rivers are the W. Banas and the Sabarmati, which rise among the south-west hills of Udaipur and take a south-westerly course. The river Mahi, which passes through the states of Partabgarh and Banswara, receiving the Som, drains the south-west corner of Rajputana through Gujarat into the Gulf of Cambay. Rajputana possesses no natural freshwater lakes, but there are several important artificial lakes, all of which have been constructed with the object of storing water. The only basin of any extent is the Sambhar salt lake, of about §0 m. in circuit.
Geology.—Geologically considered, the country may be divided into three regions—a central, and the largest, comprising the whole width of the Aravalli system, formed of very old sub-metamorphic and gneissic rocks; an eastern region, with sharply defined boundary, along which the most ancient formations are abruptly replaced by the great basin of the Vindhyan strata, or are overlaid by the still more extensive spread of the Deccan trap, forming the plateau of Malwa; and a western region, of very ill-defined margin, in which, besides some rocks of undetermined age, it is more or less known or suspected that Tertiary and Secondary strata stretch across from Sind, beneath the sands of the desert, towards the flanks of the Aravallis. Rajputana produces a variety of metals. Ore of cobalt is obtained in no other locality in India, and although zinc blende has been found elsewhere it is known to have been extracted only in this province. Copper and lead are found in several parts of the Aravalli range and of the minor ridges in Alwar and Shaikhawati, and iron ores abound in several states. Alum and blue vitriol (sulphate of copper) are manufactured from decomposed schists at Khetri in Shaikhawati. Good building materials are obtained from many of the rocks of the country, among which the Raíalo limestone (a fine-grained crystalline marble) and the Jaisalmer limestone stand pre-eminent.
Climate.—The climate throughout Rajputana is veiy dry and hot during the summer; while in the winter it is much colder in the north than in the lowr er districts, with hard frost and ice on the Bikanir borders. The rainfall is very unequally distributed: in the^ western part, which comes near to the limits of the rainless region of Asia, it is very scanty, and scarcely averages more than 5 in.; in the south-wT est the fall is more copious, sometimes exceeding icoin. at Abu; but, except in the south-west highlands of the Aravallis, rain is most abundant in the south-east. Notwithstanding all its drawbacks, Rajputana is reckoned one of the healthiest countries in India, at least for the native inhabitants.
Population.—In 1901 the population was 9,723,301, showing a decrease of 20% in the decade owing to the great famines of 1897-1898 and 1900-1901. The greatest mortality was caused by virulent malarial fever, which raged during the autumn months of 1900 and the early months of 1901. Epidemics of cholera, which occurred during the years of scarcity and famine, also swr ept away large numbers.
It is commonly supposed that, because nearly the whole country is ruled by Rajputs, therefore the population consists mainly of Rajput tribes; but these are merely the dominant race, and the territory is called Rajputana because it is politically possessed by Rajputs. The whole number of this race is 620,229, and nowhere do they form a majority of the whole population in a state; but they are strongest, numerically, in the northern states and in Udaipur. By rigid precedence the Brahmans occupy the first rank; they are numerous and influential, and with them may be classed the peculiar and important caste of Bhats, the keepers of secular tradition and of the genealogies. Next come the mercantile castes, mostly belonging to the Jain sect; these are followed by the powerful cultivating tribes, such as the Jats and Gujars, and then come the so-called aboriginal tribes, chief of whom are the Minas, Bhils and Meos. Rajasthani is the chief language of the country, one or other of its dialects being spoken by 7,035,093 persons or more than 72 % of the total population. The gross revenue of all the states is estimated at 2* millions sterling.
The mass of the people are occupied in agriculture. In the large towns banking and commerce flourish to a degree beyond what might be expected. In the north the staple products for export are salt, grain, wool and cotton, in the south opium and cotton; while the imports consist of sugar, hardware and piece goods. Rajputana is very poor in industrial production. The principal manufactures are cotton and woollen goods, carvings in ivory and working in metals, &c., all of which handicrafts are chiefly carried on in the eastern states. The system of agriculture is
very simple; in the country west of the Aravallis only one crop is raised in the year, while in other parts south and east of the Aravallis two crops are raised annually, and various kinds of cereals, pulses and fibres are grown. In the desert tracts fine breeds of camels, cattle, horses and sheep are to be found wherever there is pasturage. Irrigation, mostly from wells, is almost confined to the N. portion. The country is traversed throughout by the Rajputana railway, with its Malwa branch in the south, and diverging to Agra and Delhi in the north. Jodhpur, Udaipur and Bikanir have constructed branch railways at their own cost, the first of which was extended in 1901 to Hyderabad in Sind. In 1909 another line was opened running N. near the E. boundary from Kotah to Bharatpur.
History.—Only faint outlines can be traced of the condition of Rajputana previous to the invasion of Upper India by the Mahommedans, and these indicate that the country was subject for the most part to two or three powerful tribal dynasties. Chief of these w'ere the Rahtors, who ruled at Kanauj; the Chauhans of Ajmere; the Solankis of Anhilwara, in Gujarat; the Gehlots with the Sisodhyias sept, still in Mewar or Udaipur; and the Kachwaha clan, still in Jaipur. These tribal dynasties of Rajputs were gradually supplanted by the Moslem invaders of the nth century and weakened by internal feuds. At the beginning of the 16th century the Rajput power began to revive, only to be overthrown by Baber at Fatehpur Sikri in 1527. The clans were finally either conquered, overawed or conciliated by Akbar—all except the distant Sisodhyia clan, which, however, submitted to Jehangir in 1616. From Akbar's accession to Aurangzeb's death, a period of 151 years, the Mogul was India’s master. Aurangzeb's death and the invasion of Nadir Shah led to a triple alliance among the three leading chiefs, which internal jealousy so weakened that the Mahrattas, having been called in hy the Rahtors to aid them, took possession of Ajmere about 1756; thenceforward Rajputana became involved in the general disorganization of India. By the end of the century nearly the whole of Rajputana had been virtually subdued by the Mahrattas. The victories of Generals Wellesley and Lake, however, saved the Rajputs; but on Lord Wellesley's departure from India the floodgates of anarchy were reopened for ten years. On the outbreak of the Pindari War in 1817 the British government offered its protection. The Pindaris were put down, Amir Khan submitting and signing a treaty which constituted him the first ruler of the existing state of Tonk. By the end of 1818 similar treaties had been executed by the other Rajput states with the paramount power. Sindhia gave up the district of Ajmere to the British, and the pressure of the great Mahratta powers upon Rajputana was permanently withdrawn. Since then the political history of Rajputana has been comparatively uneventful. The great storm of the Mutiny of 1857, though dangerous while it lasted, was short. Most of the rajas remained loyal; and the capture of the town of Kotah, which had been held by the mutineers of that state, in March 1858, marked the extinction of armed rebellion.
Rajputana is of great archaeological interest, possessing some fine religious buildings in ruins and others in excellent preservation. Among the latter are the mosques at Ajmere and the temples on Abu. But the most characteristic features of architecture in the country are shown in the forts and palaces of the chiefs and in their cenotaphs.
See J. Tod, Annals and Antiquities of Rajasthan (1829, 1832); W. W. Webb, Currencies of the Hindu States of Rajputana (1893); Chiefs and Leading Families of Rajputana (1903); and Rajputana Gazetteer (Calcutta, 1908).
RAJSHAHI, a district and division of British India, in the province of Eastern Bengal and Assam. The administrative headquarters are at Rampur Boalia. The area of the district is 2593 sq. m., comprising an alluvial plain seamed with old river-beds and studded with marshes. The Ganges and the Mahananda are its principal rivers; the former constitutes a greaU natural boundary-line to the south and south-west, and the latter, which rises in the Himalayas, borders the district on the west for a few miles before joining the Ganges. Other
rivers are the Narad and Baral, important offshoots of the Ganges; the Atrai, a channel of the Tista; and the Jamuna, a tributary of the Atrai. Both the Atrai and the Jamuna belong to the Brahmaputra system and are navigable throughout the year for small cargo boats. The drainage of Rajshahi is not carried off by means of its rivers, but through the chains of marshes and swamps, the most important of which is the Chalan hhil or lake, which discharges itself into the Brahmaputra. In 1901 the population was 1,462,407, showing an increase of ι·6% in the decade. Rice is the staple crop, with pulses, oilseeds and jute. Indigo has disappeared. Sericulture has received a stimulus from the efforts of the agricultural department, supported by private enterprise, to improve the breed of silkworms. The hemp grown on a small tract in the north of the district supplies all the ganja that is consumed in Bengal. The district is traversed from south to north by the main line of the Eastern Bengal railway to Darjeeling, with a branch to Bogra. Most of the permanent buildings in the district were severely damaged by the earthquake of the 12th of June 1897. When the East India Company took over the administration of Bengal in 1765, the zamindari of Rajshahi or Nattor was one of the largest and most important in the province. It appears to have extended from Bhagalpur on the west to Dacca on the east, and to have included an important subdivision called Nij-Chakla Rajshahi on the south of the Ganges. The total area was estimated at 13,000 sq. m., or more than five times the size of the present district. Having been found much too large to be effectually administered by one central authority, Rajshahi was stripped in 1793 of a considerable portion of its outlying territory, and a natural boundary-line was drawn to the west, south and east along the Ganges and Brahmaputra. Its north-western limits were reduced in 1813, when the present district of Malda was constituted. The erection of Bogra into a separate jurisdiction in 1821 still further reduced its area; and in 1832 the limits of Rajshahi were fixed by the constitution of Pabna into an independent jurisdiction.
The Division of Rajshahi is coextensive with northern Bengal, from the Ganges to the mountains. It comprises the seven districts of Rajshahi, Dinajpur, Jalpaiguri, Malda, Rangpur, Bogra and Pabna. Total area, 18,091 sq. m. Pop. (1901) 9,130,072.
RAKE (O.E. raca, cognate with Du. raak, Ger. Reckon, from a root meaning to scrape together, heap up), an agricultural and horticultural implement consisting of a toothed bar fixed transversely to a handle, and used for the collection of cut hay, grass, &c., and, in gardening, for loosening the soil, light weeding and levelling, and generally for purposes performed in agriculture by the harrow. The teeth of the hand-rake are of wood or iron. For the horse-drawn rake, a bar with long curved steel teeth is mounted on wheels (see Hay and Haymaking). The word “ rake ” has been used since the 17th century in the sense of a man of a dissolute or dissipated character. This is a shortened form of the earlier “ rake-hell,” apparently in common use in the 16th century. In military and naval use “ to rake ” means to enfilade, to fire so that the shot may pass lengthwise along a ship, a line of soldiers, entrenchments, &c. In the nautical sense of the projection or slope of a ship's bows or stem or the inclination of a mast, the word is apparently an adaptation of the Scandinavian raka, to reach, in the sense of reach forward.
RAK0CZY, the name of a noble Hungarian family, which in the 10th century was settled in the county of Zemplen, and members of which played an important part in the history of Hungary during the 17th century.
George I., prince of Transylvania (1591-1648), who began his career as governor of Onod, was the youngest son of Sigis-mund Rikficzy (1544-1608), who shared in the insurrection of Stephen Bocskay against the Emperor Rudolph II., and was for a short time prince of Transylvania. In 1616 he married his second wife, the highly gifted zealous Calvinist, Susannah Lordntffy, who exercised a great influence over him. He then took a leading part in the rebellion of Gabriel Bethlen, who
made him commandant of Kassa, and was elected prince of Transylvania on the 26th of November 1630 by the diet of Segesvir. He followed the policy of Gabriel Bethlen, based on the maintenance of the political and religious liberties of the Hungarians. His alliance with Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden for that purpose was no secret at Vienna, where the court estimated at their right value Rik6czy's hypocritical assurances of pacific amity. On the 2nd of February 1644, at the solicitation of the Swedish and French ambassadors, and with the consent of the Porte, he declared war against the Emperor Ferdinand III. Nearly the whole of imperial Hungary was soon in his hands, and Ferdinand, hardly pressed by the Swedes at the same time, was compelled to conclude (Sept. 16, 1645) with Rfikficzy the peace of Linz, which accorded full religious liberty to the Magyars, and ceded to R&kficzy the fortress of Reg6c and the Tokaj district. On the death of Wladislaus IV. (1648) Rfikficzy aimed at the Polish throne also, but died before he could accomplish his design. His capital, Gyula Fehervfir, was a great Protestant resort and asylum.
See Secret Correspondence of the Age of George Rdkoczy 7. (Hung.), ed. Agoston Otvos (Klausenburg, 1848); Rdkoczy's Correspondence with Pdzmdny, Esterhazy, &c. (Hung.), ed. Antal Beke (Budapest, 1882); Sdndor Szilagyi, The Rdkoczy Family in the 18th Century (Hung.) (Pest, 1861).
George H., prince of Transylvania (1621-1660), was the eldest son of George I. and Susannah Lorantffy. He was elected prince of Transylvania during his father's lifetime (Feb. 19, 1642), and married (Feb. 3, 1643), Sophia B&thory, who was previously compelled by his mother to reject the Roman faith and turn Calvinist. On ascending the throne (Oct. 11, 1648), his first thought was to realize his father's Polish ambitions. With this object in view, he allied himself, in the beginning of 1649, with the Cossack hetman, Bohdan Chmielnicki, and the hospodars of Moldavia and Wallaehia. It was not, however, till 1657, as the ally of Gustavus Adolphus, that he led a rabble of 40,000 semi-savages against the Polish king, John Casimir. He took Cracow and entered Warsaw with the Swedes, but the moment his allies withdrew the whole scheme collapsed, and it was only on the most humiliating terms that the Poles finally allowed him to return to Transylvania. Here (Nov. 3, 1657) the diet, at the command of the Porte, deposed him for undertaking an unauthorized war, but in January 1658 he was reinstated by the Medgyes Diet. Again he was deposed by the grand vizier, and again reinstated as if nothing had happened, but all in vain. The Turks again invaded Transylvania, and Rfikficzy died at Nagyvfirad of the wounds received at the battle of Gyula (May 1660).
See Imre Bethlen, Life and Times of George RdkSczy II. (Hung.) (Nagy-Enyed, 1829); Life (Hung.) in Sandor Szilagyi’s Hungarian Historical Biographies (Budapest, 1891).
Francis I., prince of Transylvania (1645-1676), was the only son of George Rfik6czy II. and Sophia Bfithory. He was elected prince of Transylvania during his father's lifetime (Feb. 18, 1652), but lost both crown and father at the same time, and withdrew to the family estates, where, at Patak and Makovica, he kept a splendid court. His mother converted him to Catholicism, and on the 1st of March 1666 he married Helen Zrinyi. In 1670 he was implicated in the Zrinyi-Frangepfin conspiracy, and only saved his life by the interposition of the Jesuits on the payment of an enormous ransom.
See Sandor Szilagyi, The Rdkdczy Family in the 17th Century (Hung.) (Pest, 1861).
Francis II., prince of Transylvania (1676-1735), was bom at Borsi, Zemplen county, on the 27th of March 1676. Having lost his father during infancy, he was educated under the guardianship of his heroic mother, Helen Zrinyi, in an ultra-patriotic Magyar environment, though the Emperor Leopold I. claimed a share in his tutelage. In 1682 his mother wedded Imre Thokoly, who took no part in the education of Rikdczy, but used him for his political purposes. Unfortunately his stepfather's speculations suffered shipwreck, and Rlkdczy lost the greater part of his estates. It is said that the imperialists robbed him of 1,000,000 florins' worth of plate and supported a whole army corps out of his revenues (1683-85). As a child of twelve he witnessed the heroic defence by his mother of his ancestral castle of Munk&cs against Count Antonio Caraffa (d. 1693). On its surrender (Jan. 7, 1688) the child was transferred to Vienna that he might be isolated from the Hungarian nation aud brought up as an Austrian magnate. Cardinal Kollonics, the sworn enemy of Magyar separatism, now became his governor, and sent him to the Jesuit college at Neuhaus in Bohemia. In 1690 he completed his course at Prague, and in 1694 he married Maria Amelia of Hesse-Rhein-fels, and lived for the next few years on his Hungarian estates. At this time Rfik6czy's birth, rank, wealth and brilliant qualities made him the natural leader of the Magyar nation, and his name was freely used in all the‘insurrections of the period, though at first he led a life of the utmost circumspection (1697-1700). Hungary was then regarded at Vienna as a conquered realm, whose naturally rebellious inhabitants could only be kept under by force of arms. Kollonics was the supreme ruler of the kingdom, and his motto was “ Make of the Magyar first a slave, then a beggar, and then a Catholic.” It was a matter of life or death for the Magyars to resist such a reign of terror and save the national independence by making Hungary independent of Austria as heretofore. Rfik6czy and a few other patriotic magnates deeply sympathized with the sufferings of the nation, and on the eve of the war of the Spanish Succession they entered into correspondence with Louis XIV. for assistance through one Longueval, a Belgian general in the Austrian service, who professed to be a friend of the R4k6czyans, who initiated him into all their secrets. Longueval betrayed his trust, and R&k6czy was arrested and imprisoned at Eperjes. His wife saved him from certain death by enabling him to escape to Poland in the uniform of a dragoon officer. On the 18th of June 1703 he openly took up arms against the emperor, most of whose troops were now either on the Rhine or in upper Italy; but, unfortunately, the Magyar gentry stood aloof from the rising, and his ill-supported peasant levies (the Kuruczes) were repeatedly scattered. Yet at first he had some success, and on the 26th of September was able to write to Louis XIV. that the whole kingdom up to the Danube was in his power. He also issued his famous manifesto, Recrudescunt vulnera inclytae gentis Hungariae, to justify himself in the eyes of Europe. The battle of Blenheim made any direct help from France impossible, and on the 13th of June 1704 his little army of 7000 men was routed by the imperialists at Koronco and subsequently at Nagyszombat. Want of arms, money, native officers and infantry, made, indeed, any permanent success in the open field impossible. Nevertheless, in May 1705, when the Emperor Leopold I. was succeeded by Joseph I., the position of Rak6czy was at least respectable. With the aid of several eminent French officers and engineers he had drilled his army into some degree of efficiency, and had at his disposal 52 horse and 31 foot regiments. Even after the rout of Pudmerics (Aug. 11, 1705), he could put 100,000 men in the field. In September 1705 he was also able to hold a diet at Sz6cs6ny, attended by many nobles and some prelates, to settle the government of the country.
Rfik6czy, who had already been elected Prince of Transylvania (July 6, 1704), now surrounded himself with a council of state of 24 members. The religious question caused him especial difficulty. An ardent Catholic himself, nine-tenths of his followers were nevertheless stem Calvinists, and in his efforts to secure them toleration he alienated the pope, who dissuaded Louis XIV. from assisting him. Peace negotiations with the emperor during 1705 came to nothing, because the court of Vienna would not acknowledge the independence of Transylvania, while France refused to recognize the rebels officially till they had formally proclaimed the deposition of the Habsburgs, which last desperate measure was actually accomplished by the Onod diet on the 13th of June 1707. This was a fatal mistake, for it put an end to any hope of a compromise, and alienated both the emperor's foreign allies and the
majority of the Magyar gentry, while from Louis XIV. Rdkficzy only got 100,000 thalers, the Golden Fleece, and a promise (never kept) that the Hungarians should be included in the general peace. But into a direct alliance with R£k6czy the French king would not enter, and Laszl6 Vet6si, Rdkficzy's envoy at Versailles, in 1708 advised his master to place no further reliance on the French court. Shortly afterwards, at Trencsen (Aug 3, 1708), Rikficzy's army was scattered to the winds. The rout of Trencsen was followed by a general abandonment. The remnant of the host, too, was now thoroughly demoralized and dared not face the imperialists. A fresh attempt to renew the war in 1710 was speedily ruined by the disaster of Romhdny (Jan. 22), and a desperate effort to secure the help of Peter the Great also failing, R4k6czy gave up everything for lost, and on the 21st of February 1711 quitted his country for ever, refusing to accept the general amnesty conceded after the peace of Szatmdr (see Hungary, History). He lived for a time in France on the bounty of Louis XIV., finally entering the Carmelite Order. In 1717, with forty comrades, he volunteered to assist the Turks against the Austrians, but on arriving at Constantinople discovered there was nothing for him to do. He lived for the rest of his life at the little town of Rodostd, where he died on the 8th of April 1735. His remains were solemnly transferred to Hungary in 1907 at the expense of the state.
See Autobiography of Prince Francis RdkSczy (Hung.) (Miskolcz, 1903); E. Jurkovich, The Liberation Wars of Prince Francis RdkSczy (Hung.) (Beszterczeb^nya, 1903); S. Endrodi, Kurucz Notes, 1700-IJ2Q (Hung.) (Budapest, 1897).    (R. N. B.)
RALEIGH, SIR WALTER (c. 1552-1618), British explorer, poet and historian, was born probably in 1552, though the date is not quite certain. His father, Walter Raleigh of Fardell, in the parish of Comwood, near Plymouth, was a country gentleman of old family, but of reduced estate. Walter Raleigh the elder was three times married. His famous son was the child of his third marriage with Catherine, daughter of Sir Philip Champernown of Modbury, and widow of Otho Gilbert of Compton. By her first marriage she had three sons, John, Humphrey and Adrian Gilbert. Mr. Raleigh had been compelled to give up living in his own house of Fardell. His son was born at the farmhouse of Hayes near the head of Budleigh Salterton Bay, on the coast of Devonshire between Exmouth and Sidmouth. The name is written with a diversity exceptional even in that age. Sir Walter, his father, and a half-brother used different forms. The spelling Raleigh was adopted by Sir Walter's widow, and has been commonly used, though there has been a tendency to prefer “ Ralegh *' in recent times. It was almost certainly pronounced “ Rawley.”
In 1568 he was entered as a commoner of Oriel College, Oxford, but he took no degree, and his residence was brief. In 1569 he followed his cousin Henry Champernown, who took over a body of English volunteers to serve with the French Huguenots. From a reference in his History of the World it has been supposed that he was present at the battle of Jarnac (13th of March 1569), and it has been asserted that he was in Paris during the Massacre of St Bartholomew in 1572. Nothing, however, is known with certainty of his life till February 1575,’ when he was resident in the Temple. During his trial in 1603 he declared that he had never studied the law, but that his breeding had been “ wholly gentleman, wholly soldier.” In June 1578 his half-brother Sir Humphrey Gilbert obtained a patent for six years authorizing him to take possession of “ any remote barbarous and heathen lands not possessed by any Christian prince or people.” The gentry of Devon had been much engaged in maritime adventure of a privateering or even piratical character since the reign of Henry VIII. In the reign of Elizabeth they were the leaders in colonial enterprises in conflict with the Spaniards in America. During 1578 Humphrey Gilbert led an expedition which was a piratical venture against the Spaniards, and was driven back after an action with them and the loss of a ship in the Atlantic. Raleigh accompanied his half-brother as captain of the “ Falcon,” and was perhaps with him in an equally unsuccessful voyage of the following year. Gilhert was impoverished by his ventures, and Raleigh had to seek his fortune about the court. In the course of 1580 he was twice arrested for duels, and he attached himself to the queen's favourite, the earl of Leicester, and to the earl of Oxford, son-in-law of Burghley, for whom he carried a challenge to Sir Philip Sidney. By the end of 1580 he was serving as captain of a company of foot in Munster. He took an active part in suppressing the rebellion of the Desmonds, and in the massacre of the Spanish and Italian adventurers at Smcrwick in November. His letters prove that he was the advocate of a ruthless policy against the Irish, and did not hesitate to recommend assassination as a means of getting rid of their leaders.
In December 1581 he was sent home with despatches, as his company had been disbanded on the suppression of the Desmonds. His great fortune dates from his arrival at court where he was already not unknown. Raleigh had been in correspondence with Walsingham for some time. The romantic stories told by Sir Robert Naunton in the Fragmenta Regalia, and by Fuller in his Worthies, represent at least the mythical truth as to his rise into favour. It is quite possible that Raleigh, at a time when his court clothes represented “ a considerable part of his estate,” did (as the old story says) throw his mantle on the ground to help the queen to walk dry-shod over a puddle, and that he scribbled verses with a diamond on a pane of glass to attract her attention, though we only have the gossip of a later generation for our authority. It is certain that his tall and handsome person, his caressing manners and his quick wit pleased the queen. The rewards showered on him were out of all proportion to his services in Ireland, which had not been more distinguished than those of many others. In March 1582 he was granted a reward of £100, and the command of a company, nominally that he might be exercised in the wars, but in reality as a form of pension, since he was allowed to discharge his office by deputy and remained at court. In February 1583 he was included in the escort sent to accompany the duke of Anjou from England to Flanders. In 1583 the queen made him a grant of Durham House in the Strand (London), the property of the see of Durham, which had however been used of late as a royal guest-house. In the same year the queen's influence secured him two beneficial leases from All Souls, Oxford, which he sold to his advantage, and a patent to grant licences to “ vintners,”—that is, tavern keepers. This he subleased, and when his agent, one Browne, cheated him, he got the grant revoked, and reissued on terms which allowed him to make £2000 a year. In 1584 he had a licence for exporting woollen cloths, a lucrative monopoly which made him very unpopular with the merchants. He was knighted in 1584. In 1585 he succeeded the earl of Bedford as Warden of the Stannaries. Raleigh made a good use of the great powers which the wardenship gave him in the mining districts of the west. He reduced the old customs to order, and showed himself fair to the workers. In 1586 he received a grant of 40,000 acres of the forfeited lands of the Desmonds, on the Blackwater in Ireland. He was to plant English settlers, which he endeavoured to do, and he introduced the cultivation of the potato and of tobacco. In 1587 he received a grant in England of part of the forfeited land of the conspirator Babington.
During these years Raleigh was at the height of his favour. It was the policy of Queen Elizabeth to have several favourites at once, lest any one might be supposed to have exclusive influence with her. Raleigh was predominant during the period between the predominance of Leicester and the rise of the earl of Essex, who came to court in 1587. It is to be noted that Elizabeth treated Raleigh exclusively as a court favourite, to be enriched by monopolies and grants at the expense of her subjects, but that she never gave him any great office, nor did she admit him to the council. Even his post of captain of the Guard, given in 1587, though honourable, and, to a man who would take gifts for the use of his influence, lucrative, was mainly ornamental. His many offices and estates did not monopolize the activity of Raleigh. The patent given to his half-brother Sir Humphrey Gilbert was to run out in 1584. To
avert this loss Raleigh, partly out of his own pocket and partly by securing the help of courtiers and capitalists, provided the means for the expedition to Newfoundland in 1583, in which Gilbert, who had been reduced to sell “ the clothes off his wife's back " by his previous misfortunes, finally perished. Sir Humphrey's patent was renewed in favour of Sir Walter in March 1584.
Raleigh now began the short series of ventures in colonization which have connected his name with the settlement of Virginia. It has often been said that Raleigh showed a wise originality in his ideas as to colonization. But in truth the patent granted to him, which gave him and his heirs the proprietary right over all territory they occupied subject to payment of one-fifth of the produce of all mines of precious metals to the crown, is drawn closely on Spanish precedents. Nor was there any originality in his desire to settle English colonists, and encourage other industries than mining. The Spaniards had pursued the same aim from the first. In April 1584 Raleigh sent out two captains, Philip Amadas and Arthur Barlowe, on a voyage of exploration. They sailed by the Canaries to Florida, and from thence followed the coast of North America as far as the inlet between Albemarle and Pamlico sounds in the modern state of North Carolina. The name of Virginia was given to a vast and undefined territory, but none of Raleigh's captains or settlers reached the state of Virginia. In the same year he became member of parliament for Devonshire, and took the precaution to secure a parliamentary confirmation of his grant. His first body ol settlers, sent out in 1585 under Sir Richard Grenville, landed on what is now Roanoke Island in North Carolina Sir R. Grenville showed himself mainly intent on taking prizes, going and coming. The settlers got on bad terms with the* natives, despaired, and deserted the colony when Sir Francis Drake visited the coast in 1586. Attempts at colonization at the same place in 1586 and 1587 proved no more successful (see North Carolina), and in 1589 Raleigh, who represented himself as having spent £40,000 on the venture, resigned his rights to a company of merchants, preserving to himself a rent, and a fifth of whatever gold might be discovered.
After 1587 Sir Walter Raleigh was called upon to fight for his place of favourite with the earl of Essex (see Essex, 2nd Earl of). During the Armada year 1588 he was more or less in eclipse. He was in Ireland for part of the year with Sir R. Grenville, and was employed as vice-admiral of Devon in looking after the coast-defences and militia levy of the county. During this year he received a challenge from Essex which did not lead to an encounter. In 1589 he was again in Ireland. He had already made the acquaintance of Edmund Spenser and now visited him at his house at Kilcolman. It was by Raleigh's help that Spenser obtained a pension, and royal aid to publish the first three books of the Faerie Queen. The exact cause of Raleigh's partial disgrace at court is not known, but it was probably due to the queen's habitual policy of checking one favourite by the promotion of another. In 1589 he accompanied the expedition to the coast of Portugal, which was intended to cause a revolt against King Philip II., but failed completely. In 1591 he was at the last moment forbidden to take part in the voyage to the Azores, and was replaced by his cousin Sir R. Grenville, whose death in action with the Spaniards was the subject of one of Sir Walter's most vigorous pieces of prose writing. In 1592 he was again at sea with an expedition to intercept the Spanish trade, but was recalled by the queen. The cause of his recall was the discovery that he had seduced one of her maids of honour, Elizabeth Throgmorton. Raleigh denied in a letter to Robert Cecil that there was any truth in the stories of a marriage between them. On his return he was put into the Tower, and if he was not already married was married there. - To placate the queen he made a fantastic display of despair at the loss of her favour. It must be remembered that the maids of ‘honour could not marry without the consent of the queen, which Elizabeth was always most reluctant to give and would be particularly unwilling to give when the husband was an old favourite of her own. Raleigh proved a good husband and his wife was devoted to him through life. As the ships of the expedition had taken a valuable prize, the Portuguese carrack “ Madre de Dios," and as there was a dispute over the booty, he was released to superintend the distribution. He had been a large contributor to the cost of the expedition, but the queen, who sent only two ships, took the bulk of the spoil, leaving him barely enough to cover his expenses.
Raleigh now retired from court to an estate at Sherborne in Dorsetshire, which just before his disgrace he had extorted from the bishop of Salisbury, to whose see it belonged, by a most unscrupulous use of the royal influence. A son was born to him here in 1594, and he kept up a friendly correspondence with Sir Robert Cecil, afterwards earl of Salisbury, the secretary of state. But a life of constant retirement was uncongenial to Raleigh, and as his profuse habits, together with the multiplicity of his interests, had prevented him from making any advantage out of his estates in Ireland, he was embarrassed for money. In 1595 he therefore sailed on a voyage of exploration with a view to conquest, on the coast of South America. The object was undoubtedly to find gold mines, and Raleigh had heard the wild stories of El Dorado which had been current among the Spaniards for long. His account of his voyage, The Discoverie of Guiana, published on his return, is the most brilliant of all the Elizabethan narratives of adventure, but contains much manifest romance. It was received with incredulity. He was now the most unpopular man in England, not only among the courtiers, but in the nation, for his greed, arrogance and alleged scepticism in religion. In 1590 he was named with the poet Marlowe and others as an atheist. At court he was not at first received. The share he took in the capture of Cadiz in 1596, where he was seriously wounded, was followed by a restoration of favour at court, and he was apparently reconciled to Essex, whom he accompanied on a voyage to the Azores in 1597. This cooperation led to a renewal of the quarrel, and Raleigh, as the enemy of Essex who was the favourite of the soldiers and the populace, became more unpopular than ever. In 1600 he obtained the governorship of Jersey, and in the following year took a part in suppressing the rebellion of Essex, at whose execution he presided as captain of the Guard. In 1600 he sat as member for Penzance in the last parliament of Elizabeth's reign. In parliament he was a steady friend of religious toleration, and a bold critic of the fiscal and agrarian legislation of the time.
The death of the queen and the accession of James I. were ruinous to Raleigh. James, who looked upon Essex as his partisan, had been prejudiced, and Raleigh's avowed desire for the prolongation of the war with Spain was utterly against the peace policy of the king. Raleigh was embarrassed for money, and had been compelled to sell his Irish estates to Richard Boyle, afterwards 1st earl of Cork, in 1602. He was expelled from Durham House, ‘which was reclaimed by the bishop, dismissed from the captaincy of the Guard, deprived of his monopolies, which the king abolished, and of the government of Jersey. In his anger and despair he unquestionably took some part in the complication of conspiracies which arose in the first months of James's reign, and was committed to the Tower on the 19th of July 1603. Here he made what appears to have been an insincere attempt to stab himself, but only inflicted a small wound. His trial at Winchester, November 1603, was conducted with such outrageous unfairness as to shock the opinion ‘of the time, and his gallant bearing in face of the brutality of the Attorney-General, Sir Edward Coke, turned public opinion in his favour. It is now impossible to reach the truth, but on the whole it appears probable that Raleigh was cognizant of the conspiracies, though the evidence produced against him was insufficient to prove his guilt. Much was kept back by the council, and the jury was influenced by knowing that the council thought him guilty.
The sentence of death passed on Raleigh, and others tried at about the same time, was in most cases not carried out.
Raleigh was sent to the Tower, where he remained till the 19th of March 1616. His estate of Sherborne, which he had transferred to his son, was taken by the king, who availed himself of a technical irregularity in the transfer. A sum of £8000 offered in compensation was only paid in part. Raleigh’s confinement was easy, and( he applied himself to chemical experiments and literature. He had been known as one of the most poetical of the minor lyric poets of an age of poetry from his youth. In prison he composed many treatises, and the only volume of his vast History of the World published. He also invented an elixir which appears to have been a very formidable quack stimulant. Hope of release and of a renewal of activity never deserted him, and he strove to reach the car of the king by appealing to successive ministers and favourites. At last he secured his freedom in a way discreditable to all concerned. He promised the king to find a gold mine in Guiana without trenching on a Spanish possession. It must have been notorious to everybody that this was impossible, and the Spanish ambassador, Gondomar, warned the king that the Spaniards had settlements on the coast. The king, who was in need of money, replied that if Raleigh was guilty of piracy he should be executed on his return. Raleigh gave promises he obviously knew he could not keep, and sailed on the 17th of March 1617, relying on the chapter of accidents, and on vague intrigues he had entered into in Savoy and France. Theexpedition, on which the wreck of his fortune was spent, was ill-appointed and ill-manned. It reached the mouth of the Orinoco on the last day of 1617. Raleigh was ill with fever, and remained at Trinidad. He sent five small vessels up the Orinoco under his most trusted captain, Lawrencd Keymis, with whom went his son Walter and a nephew. The expedition found a Spanish settlement on the way to the supposed mine, and a fight ensued in which Sir Walter’s son and several Spaniards were killed. After some days of bush fighting with the Spaniards, and of useless search for the mine, Keymis returned to Sir Walter with the news of his son’s death and his own utter ruin. Stung by Raleigh’s reproach Keymis killed himself, and then after a miserable scene of recriminations, hesitations and mutiny, the expedition returned home. Raleigh was arrested, and in pursuance of the · king’s promise to Gondomar was executed under his old sentence on the 29th of October 1618. During his confinement he descended to some unworthy supplications and devices, but when he knew his end to be inevitable he died with serenity and dignity. His wife survived him, and he left a son, Carew Raleigh. His enmity to Spain made him a popular hero.
Authorities.—An edition of his Works in eight volumes was published in London in 1829. It contains a Life by Oldys and Birch, written with all the knowledge then available. A Life of Sir Walter Raleigh (London, 1806, 2nd ed.) was much used by Southey in his biography of Sir Walter Raleigh in vol. iv. of The British Admirals in the Cabinet Cyclopaedia (London, 1837). Two biographies appeared simultaneously, Life of Sir Walter Raleigh by J. A. Saint John, and· Life of Sir Walter Raleigh by E. Edwards (London, 1868). Mr Edwards’s work is in two volumes, of which the second contains the correspondence, and is still the best authority. Smaller lives, which in some cases contain new matter, are those by E. W. Gosse, “Raleigh” in English Worthies (1886); W. Stebbing, Sir W. Raleigh (London, 1891, and 1899); Martin Hume, Sir Walter Raleigh (London 1897); and H. de Selincourt, Great Ralegh (1908). For special episodes see Sir John Pope Hennessy, Sir Walter Raleigh in Ireland (London, 1883), and T. N. Brush field, Raleghana (Ashburton, 1896). Two separate editions of Raleigh’s poems have been published, Poems, with biography and critical introduction by Sir F. Brydges (London, 1813), and Poems of Raleigh with those of Sir H. Wotton, &c., edited by J. Hannah (London, 1892). S. R. Gardiner made a careful examination of the events of Raleigh’s life after 1603 in his History of England from the Accession of James J. to the Outbreak of the Civil War (1883-84).    (D. H.)
RALEIGH, the capital of North Carolina, U.S.A., and the county-seat of Wake county, about 145 m. N. by W. of Wilmington. Pop. (1890) 12,678; (1900) 13,643, of whom 5721 were negroes; (1910, census) 19,218. Area 4 sq. m. It is served by the Southern, the Seaboard Air Line, the Raleigh & Southport, and the Norfolk Southern railways. The city lies about 360 ft. above sca-level on ground sloping gently in all directions from its centre, where there is a beautiful park
of 4 acres known as Union Square, in which is the State Capitol and from which extend four broad streets. On the western border of the city is Pullen Park (about 40 acres), including the campus of the College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts; it was named in honour of the donor, R. Stanhope Pullen, who was also a benefactor of the college. The State Capitol (1840) is surmounted by a dome and modelled to some extent after the Parthenon and other buildings of ancient Greece; the first Capitol (begun in 1794) was burned in 1831. In the vicinity are the Governor’s Mansion, the Supreme Court Building, the State Library, the building of the State Department of Agriculture, housing the State Museum (of geology, mineralogy, agriculture and horticulture, botany, zoology, ethnology', &c.), and the Post Office. Elsewhere are the County Court House, the State Hospital for the Insane (1856), founded through the efforts of Dorothea Lynde Dix, situated on Dix Hill and having in connexion with it a colony for epileptics; a state school for white blind, deaf and dumb (1845), and a state institute foi negro deaf mutes and blind (1867); the state penitentiary (with a department for the criminal insane); a National Cemetery and a Confederate Cemetery; a Methodist Orphanage (1900) and a Roman Catholic Orphanage, the St Luke’s Home for old ladies (1895; under the King’s Daughters), a State (Confederate) Soldiers’ Home (1891), and three private hospitals and the Rex public hospital (1909). Raleigh is the seat of the North Carolina College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts (1889), in connexion with which is an agricultural experiment station; of three schools for girls—Peace Institute (Presbyterian, 1857), St Mary’s School (Protestant Episcopal, 1842) and Meredith College (Baptist, 1891); of the medical department of the University of North Carolina; and of two schools for negroes—Shaw University (Baptist, 1865), with 530 students in 1908-1909, and St Augustine’s School (Protestant Episcopal, 1868), a training school, with 466 students in 1908-1909. In 1908 the State Library (founded 1841) contained 39,000 volumes, the Supreme Court Library (founded 1870) about 17,000 volumes and the Olivia Raney public library (founded 1901) 9250 volumes. The city is the see of a Protestant Episcopal bishop. The principal industrial interests are trade in leaf tobacco and cotton raised in the vicinity, and the manufacture of cotton goods, phosphate fertilizers, foundry and machine-shop products, wooden-ware, &c. The Seaboard Air Line and the Raleigh & Southport railways have repair shops here. In 1905 the factory product was valued at $1,086,671, 14-7% more than in 1900. Electric power is conveyed to the city from Buckhorn Falls, on the Cape Fear river, about 26 m. south of Raleigh, and from Milburnie on the Neuse river, 6 m. distant.
In 1788 the site of the city, then known as Wake Court House, was chosen for the capital of the state; and in 1792 the city was laid out and named in honour of Sir Walter Raleigh. In 1794 the state legislature met here for the first time. Raleigh was incorporated in 1795 and was reincorporated in 1803; its present charter dates from 1899. General William T. Sherman’s army, on its march through the Carolinas, passed through the city on the 13th of April 1865. Raleigh was the birthplace of President Andrew Johnson; the house in which he was born has been removed to Pullen Park. By an extension of its boundaries the city nearly doubled its area and increased its population in 1907.
RALPH (d. 1122), archbishop of Canterbury, called Ralph de Turbine, or Ralph d’Escures from his father’s estate of Escures, near S6ez in Normandy, entered the abbey of St Martin at Seez in 1079, and ten years later became abbot of this house. Soon afterwards he paid a visit to England, where his half-brother, Seffrid Pelochin, was bishop of Chichester, and in 1100 he took refuge in England from the violence of Robert of Belesme, passing some time with his friends St Anselm and Gundulf. In March 1108 he succeeded Gundulf as bishop of Rochester. After Anselm’s death in April 1109 Ralph acted as administrator of the see of Canterbury until April 1114, when he himself was chosen archbishop at Windsor. In this capacity he was very assertive of the rights of the archbishop of Canter-
bury and of the liberties of the English church. He claimed authority in Wales and Scotland, and he refused to consecrate Thurstan as archbishop of York because the latter prelate declined to profess obedience to the archbishop of Canterbury. This step involved him in a quarrel with the Papacy, and he visited Rome, but was unable to obtain an interview with pope Paschal II., who had left the city. In spite of peremptory orders from Paschal's successors, Gelasius II. and Calixtus II., the archbishop still refused to consecrate Thurstan, and the dispute was unsettled when he died on the 20th of October 1122.
RALPH DE GUADER, earl of Norfolk (fl. 1070), was the son of a Norman who had held high positions in East Anglia, perhaps that of earl, in the reign of Edward the Confessor (c. 1055). His son Ralphfought on the Norman side at Hastings, and was made earl of Norfolk by William the Conqueror. In 1075 the king's refusal to sanction his marriage with the sister of Roger, earl of Hereford, caused the two earls to revolt. They were easily defeated, though Ralph sent to Denmark for ships and went there himself to fetch them. Ralph forfeited his English lands, and took refuge in Brittany on his wife's estate. In 1076, having plotted against Duke Hoel of Brittany, he was besieged at Dol, and the Conqueror came to Hoel's aid; but Ralph finally made his peace. Both he and his wife took part in the first crusade (1099), and died on the road to Palestine.
RALPH OF COGGESHALL (d. after 1227), English chronicler, was at first a monk and afterwards sixth abbot (1207-1218) of Coggeshall, an Essex foundation of the Cistercian order. Ralph himself tells us these facts; and that his resignation of the abbacy was made against the wishes of the brethren, in consequence of his bad health. * He took up and continued a Chronicon Anglicanum belonging to his house; the original work begins at 1066, his own share at 1187. He hoped to reach the year 1227, but his autograph copy breaks off three years earlier. Ralph makes no pretensions to be a literary artist. Where he had a written authority before him he was content to reproduce even the phraseology of his original. At other times he strings together in chronological order, without any links of connexion, the anecdotes which he gathered from chance visitors. Unlike f:l Bcnedictus ” and Roger of Hoveden, he makes little use of documents; only three letters are quoted in his work. On the other hand, the corrections and erasures of the autograph show that he took pains to verify his details; and his informants are sometimes worthy of exceptional confidence. Thus he vouches Richard's chaplain Anselm for the story of the Ling's capture by Leopold of Austria. The tone of the chronicle is usually dispassionate; but the original text contained some personal strictures upon Prince John, which are reproduced in Roger of Wendover. The admiration with which Ralph regarded Henry II. is attested by his edition of Ralph Niger's chronicle; here, under the year 1161, he replies to the intemperate criticisms of the original author. On Richard I. the abbot passes a judicious verdict, admitting the great qualities of that king, but arguing that his character degenerated. Towards John alone Ralph is uniformly hostile; as a Cistercian and an adherent of the Mandeville family he could hardly be otherwise. Ralph refers in the Chronicon (s.a. 1091) to a book of visions and miracles which he had compiled, but this is no longer extant. He also wrote a continuation of Niger's chronicle, extending from 1162 to 1178 (printed in R. Anstruther's edition of Niger, London, 1851), and short annals from 1066 to 1223.
The autograph manuscript of the Chronicon Anglicanum is to be found in the British Museum (Cotton, Vespasian D. X.)· The same volume contains the continuation of Ralph Niger. The Chronicon Terrae Sanctae, formerly attributed to Ralph, is by another hand; it was among the sources on which he drew for the Chronicon Anglicanum. The so-called Libellus de motibus anglicanis sub rege Johanne (printed by Martene and Durand, Ampi. Collection v. pp. 871-882) is merely an excerpt from the Chronicon Anglicanum. This latter work was edited for the Rolls series in 1875 by J. Stevenson.    (H. W. C. D.)
RAM, PIERRE FRANCOIS XAVIER DE (1804-1865), Belgian churchman and historian, was bom at Louvain in 1804. He took orders early, and was appointed professor of poetry at the seminary of Malines, and archiviste of the diocese. During the years immediately before the revolution of 1830, Ram, who was much influenced by Lamennais, was active in bringing about a coalition of Liberals and Catholics against the Dutch government established by the Powers on the fall of Napoleon, and in endeavouring to give a democratic character to the policy of his church. He declined to stand as a member of the Belgian assembly, and applied himself wholly to teaching and to editing or composing historical books. As professor of philosophy at Malines he succeeded in bringing about the foundation of the Catholic university, which was transferred to Louvain in 1834. He was rector of the university till his death in 1865.
The best known of his publications is the Documents relatifs aux troubles du pays de Liège 1455-1505* published by the Commission royale de VHistoire de Belgique (Brussels, 1844). A Notice sur la vie et les travaux de Mgr P. F. X. de Ram, by J. J. Thonîssen, will be found in the Annuaire de VAcadémie royale de Belgique (Brussels, 1866).
RAM, a male sheep, one kept for breeding purposes in domestication and not castrated, as opposed to the castrated “ wether " (see Sheep). For the ram as one of the signs of the zodiac, see Aries. The word may be connected with O.Nor. ramme, strong, or with Sansk. ram} to sport. The butting propensities of the ram have given rise to the many transferred senses of the word, chief and earliest of which is that of a battering implement used before the days of cannon for beating in the gates and breaching the walls of fortified places (see Batterixg Ram). Many technical uses of the term have been developed from this, e.g. the weight of a pile-driving machine, the piston of a hydraulic press and other machines or portions of machines worked by water power (see Hydraulics). The ancient war-vessels were fitted with a beak (Lat. rostrum, Gr. ex/foXo^), projecting from the hows, and used to ram or crush in the sides of an opposing vessel; for the development of this in the modem battleship, see Ship.
RAMADAN, the month of the Mahommedan year in which absolute fasting from dawn to sunset is required. The law is laid down in Koran ii. 179-184, and is as follows: A fast had always been a part of religion. In Islam it was to fall in this month because in it the Koran was revealed, and it was holier than the others. It was to begin when the new moon was actually seen, and last until sight of the next new . moon; to extend each day from the time when a white thread could be distinguished from a black one and until nightfall; to be absolute in that time as to food, drink, women. The daytime should be passed, by preference, in retreat (i 'tikaf) in the mosque in pious exercises; during the night all otherwise lawful things to be lawful. The sick and those on a journey might be excused, but should fast thereafter an equivalent number of days. Unexcused breaking of the fast might be atoned for by feeding of the poor. The last ten days of the month are regarded as especially sacred; these Mahomet himself used to pass in retreat. In the course of them falls the “ Night of Decree,” or “ of Power '' (Koran xc. 1), but its exact date is not known. On it intercourse between heaven and earth is peculiarly open, and many wonders take place. Fasting in Rama4àn is reckoned one of the five pillars, or absolute requirements, of Islam. It is followed by the Lesser Festival, the first three days of the month Shauwal (see Bairam). Naturally, during it all the activities of life are reduced to a minimum, and those who can afford it turn night into day as much as possible.
For details see Hughes, Dictionary of Islam, 533 ff. ; Sell, Faith of Islam, 279 ff.; Sprenger, Leben Mohammads, lii. 56 ff.; Snouck Hurgronje, Mekka, 51, 77 ff.; Meakin, The Moorsy 247 ff.; Juynboll, De Mohammedaansche Wett 108 ff.    (D. B. Ma.)
RAMBAUD, ALFRED NICOLAS (1842-1905), French historian, was born at Besançon on the 2nd of July 1842. After studying at the École normale supérieure, he completed his studies in Germany. He was one of that hand of young scholars, among whom were also Ernest Lavisse, Gabriel Monod and Gaston Paris, whose enthusiasm was aroused by
the principles and organization of scientific study as applied beyond the Rhine, and who were ready to devote themselves to their cherished plan of remodelling higher education in France. He was appointed “ ripititeur ” at the £cole des Hautes £tudes on its foundation in 1868. His researches were at that time directed towards the Byzantine period of the middle ages, and to this period were devoted the two theses which he composed for his doctorate in letters, De byzantino hippodromo et circensibus factionibus (revised in French for the Revue des Deux MondeSj under the title of “ Le monde byzantin; le sport et I’hippodrome,” 1871), and UEmpire grec au X· siicle, Constantin Porphyroginhte (1870). This latter work is still accepted as a good authority, and caused Rambaud to be hailed as a master on the Byzantine period; but with the exception of one article on Digenis Akritas, in the Revue des Deux Mondes (1875), and one other on Michael Psellos, in the Revue historique (vol. iii., 1876), Rambaud’s researches were diverted towards other parts of the East. The Franco-German War inspired him with the idea for some courses of lectures which developed into books: La dominationfran^aize en Allemagne; les Franqais sur le Rhin, 1792-1804 (1873) and VAllemagne sous Napolion /. 1804-1811 (1874). He watched attentively the r61e played by Russia, and soon observed how much to the interest of France, a good entente with this power would be. He accordingly threw himself into the study of Russian history, staying in Russia in order to learn its language, institutions and customs. On his return, he published La Russie ipiqtte, a study of the heroic songs (1876), a short but excellent Histoire de la Russie depuis les origines jusqu’d Fannie 1877 (1878; 5th ed., 1900), Franqais et Russes, Moscou et Sivastopol 1812-1854 (1876; 2nd ed., 1881), and finally the two important volumes on Russian diplomatic history in the Recueil des Instructions donnies aux ambassadeurs (vols. vii. and ix., 1890 and 1891). He was riot improbably moved by considerations of foreign policy to publish his Russes et Prussiens} guerre de Sept Ans (1895), a popular work, though based on solid research. After teaching history in the Faculties of Arts at Caen (1871) and Nancy (1873), he was called to the Sorbonne (1883), where he was the first to occupy the chair of contemporary history. By this time he had already entered into politics; he had been chef du cabinet of Jules Ferry (1879-1881), though this did not distract him from his literary work. It was under these conditions that he composed his Histoire de la civilisation fran$aise (2 vols., 1885, 1887; 9th ed., 1901) and his Histoire de la civilisation contemporaine en France (1888; new ed. entirely revised, 1906), and undertook the general editorship of the Histoire ginirale du IV* sitcle jusqu’d nos jours. The plan of this great work had been drawn up with the aid of Ernest Lavisse, but the entire supervision of its execution was carried out by Rambaud. He contributed to it himself some interesting chapters on the history of the East, of which he had a thorough knowledge. In 1885 Rambaud published, in collaboration with J. B. Bailie, a French translation of J. R. Seeley’s Expansion of England, and in the preface he laid great emphasis on the enormous increase of power brought to England by the possession of her colonies, seeing in this a lesson for France. He was anxious to see the rise of a “Greater France,” on the model of “ Greater Britain,” and it was with this idea that he undertook to present to the public a series of essays, written by famous explorers or political men, under the title of La France coloniale, histoire, giographie} commerce (1886; 6th ed., 1893). Having become senator for the department of Doubs (1895-1902), Rambaud held the position of minister of Public Instruction from 1896 to 1898, and in that capacity endeavoured to carry on the educational work of Jules Ferry, to whose memory he always remained faithful. He dedicated to his former chief a book (Jules Ferry, 1903), which is a valuable testimony to the efforts made by France to organize public education and found a colonial empire; but this fidelity also won him some enemies, who succeeded for some time in preventing him from becoming a member of the Institute. He was finally elected a member of the Acad£mie des Sciences morales et politiques on the nth of December 1897, in place of the due d’Aumale, of whose life he wrote an account (vol. xxii., 2nd scries, of the Mimoires of this academy). His many interests ended by wearing out even his robust constitution, and he died at Paris on the 10th of November 1905.
See the notices by Ernest Lavisse in the Revue de Paris for January 15th, 1906, and Gabriel Monod in the Revue historique (vol. xe.t pp. 344-348).
RAMBERT, EUGENE (1830-1886), Swiss author, was born at SAles near Swiss Clarens on the 6th of April 1830, the eldest son of a Vaudois schoolmaster, from whom he received his education. When in 1845 his father lost his post, owing to the religious disputes, Rambert became a teacher in Paris, and later a tutor in England and at Geneva. When the affairs of the family improved, Rambert was able to pursue his studies for the ministry, but he was more attracted by literature, and in 1845 became professor of French literature at the academy of Lausanne, and in i860 at the Federal polytechnic school at Zurich, where he remained till 1881, when he again became professor at Lausanne. His principal work, Les Alpes suisses (5 vols., 1866-1875; republished with large additions, according to his own scheme, in 6 vols., 1887-1889), is a mine of miscellaneous information on the subject. He also published several volumes of poetry, as well as a volume entitled £crivains natioftaux (1874, republished 1889), and biographies of the pietist Vinet (1875), of the poet Juste Olivier (1879) and of the artist Alexandre Calame (1883). He died on the 21st of November 1886.
Rambert's Dernikres Poesies were edited (1903) by Henri Warnery, whose Eughne Rambert (Lausanne, 1890) contains a critical estimate.
(W. A. B. C.)
RAMBOUILLET, CATHERINE DE VIVONNE, Marquise de (1588-1665), a lady famous in the literary history of France, was born in 1588. She was the daughter and heiress of Jean de Vivonne, marquis of Pisani, and her mother Giulia was of the noble Roman family of Savelli. She was married at twelve years old to Charles d’Angennes, vidame of Le Mans, and afterwards marquis of Rambouillet. The young marquise found the coarseness and intrigue that then reigned in the French court little to her taste, and after the birth of her eldest daughter, Julie d’Angennes, in 1607, she began to gather round her the circle afterwards so famous. She established herself at the Hotel Pisani, called later the H6tel de Rambouillet, the site of which is close to the Grands Magasins du Louvre. Mme de Rambouillet took great trouble to arrange her house for purposes of reception, and devised suites of small rooms where visitors could move easily, and could find more privacy than in the large reception rooms of the ordinary house. The h6tel was rebuilt on these lines in 1618. It maintained its importance as a social and literary centre until 1650. Almost all the more remarkable personages in French society and French literature frequented it, especially during the second quarter of the century, when it was at the height of its reputation. There is abundant testimony to Mme de Rambouillet’s beauty, though no portrait of her is known to exist. Her success as a hostess was due to many causes. Her natural abilities had been carefully trained, but were not extraordinary. Alany people were, however, like herself, disgusted with the intrigues at court, and found the comparative austerity of the H6tel de Rambouillet a welcome change. The marquise had genuine kindness and a lack of prejudice that enabled her to entertain on the same footing princes and princesses of the blood royal, and men of letters, while among her intimate friends was the beautiful Ang61ique Paulet. The respect paid to ability in her salon effected a great advancement in the position of French men of letters. Moreover, the almost uniform excellence of the memoirs and letters of 17th-century Frenchmen and Frenchwomen may be traced largely to the development of conversation as a fine art at the H6tcl Rambouillet, and the consequent establishment of a standard of clear and adequate expression. Mme de Rambouillet was known as the “ incomparable Arth6nice,” the name being an anagram for Catherine, devised by Malherbe and Racan.
Among the more noteworthy incidents in the story of the Hôtel are the sonnet war between the Uranistes and the Jobistes— partisans of two famous sonnets by Voiture and Benserage—and the composition by all the famous poets of the day of the Guirlande de Julie, a collection of poems on different flowers, addressed in 1641 to Julie d’Angennes, afterwards duchesse de Montausier. Julie herself was responsible for a good deal of the preciosity for which the Hôtel was later ridiculed. Charles de Sainte Maure, who become in 1664 duc de Montausier, had been wooing her for seven years when he conceived the idea of the famous garland, and she kept him waiting for four years more.
The Précieuses, who are usually associated with Molière’s avowed caricatures and with the extravagances of Mlle, de Scudéry, but whose name, it must be remembered, Madame de Sévigné herself was proud to bear—insisted on a ceremonious gallantry from their suitors and friends, though it seems from the account given by Tallemant des Réaux that practical jokes of a mild kind were by no means excluded from the Hôtel de Rambouillet. They especially favoured an elaborate and quintessenced kind of colloquial and literary expression, imitated from Marini and Gongora, and then fashionable throughout Europe. The immortal Précieuses ridicules of Molière was no doubt directly levelled not at the Hôtel de Rambouillet itself, but at the numerous coteries which in the course of years had sprung up in imitation of it. But the satire did in truth touch the originators as well as the imitators,—the former more closely perhaps than they perceived. The Hôtel de Rambouillet continued open till the death of its mistress, on the 2nd of December 1665, but the troubles of the Fronde diminished its influence.
The chief original authorities respecting Madame de Rambouillet and her set are Tallemant des Réaux in his Historiettes, and Antoine Baudeau de Somaize in his Grand Dictionnaire des Précieuses (1660). Many modern writers have treated^ the subject, notably Victor Cousin, La Société française au xvii* siècle (2 vols., 1856), and C. L. Livet, Précieux et Précieuses . . . (1859). There is an admirable edition (1875) °f the Guirlande de Julie by O. Uzanne.
RAMBOUILLET, a town of northern France, capital of an arrondissement in the department of Seine-et-Oise, 30 m. S.W. of Paris on the railway to Chartres. Pop. (1906) town, 3965; commune, 6165. Rambouillet derives its whole interest from the associations connected with the ancient château, dating originally from the 14th century, but often rebuilt. A great machicolated tower is all that remains of the medieval building; some apartments with good woodwork are also of interest. The château is surrounded by a beautiful park of 3000 acres and by an extensive forest. The gardens, partly in French, partly in English style, are picturesque, and have an avenue of Louisiana cypress unique in Europe. The park contains the national sheep-farm, where in the 18th century the first flock of merino sheep in France was raised, a school of sheep-farming, and, close to the latter, a small dairy built by Louis XVI. The shooting of the famous coverts of Rambouillet is reserved for the presidents of the Republic. The town is the seat of a sub-prefect and has a tribunal of first instance and a preparatory infantry school. Trade is in grain, wool, flour and wood. Watch-springs are manufactured.
Originally a royal domain, the lands of Rambouillet passed in the 14th century to the D’Angennes family, who held them for three hundred years and built the château. Francis I. died there in 1547; and Charles IX. and Catherine de Medicis found a refuge there in the Wars of Religion, as Henry III. did after them. The title became a marquisate in 1612, at which time it was held by Charles d’Angennes, husband of Catherine de Vivonne (q.t>.), the famous marchioness of Rambouillet. Created a duchy and peerage in favour of the duke of Toulouse, son of Louis XIV., Rambouillet was subsequently bought and embellished by Louis XVI., who erected a model farm and other buildings. The place was a hunting-seat of Napoleon I. and Charles X., and it was here that in 1830 the latter signed his abdication.
RAMEAU, JEAN PHILIPPE (1683-1764), French musical theorist and composer, was born at Dijon on the 23rd of October 1683. His musical education, partly in consequence of his father’s desire that he should study law, still more through his own wayward disposition, was of a desultory character. In 1701 his father sent him to Milan to break off a foolish love-match. But he learned little in Italy, and soon returned, in company with a wandering theatrical manager, for whom he played the second violin. He next settled in Paris, where he published his Premier livre de pièces de clavecin, in 1706. In 1717 he made an attempt to obtain the appointment of organist at the church of St Paul. Deeply annoyed at his unexpected failure, he retired for a time to Lille, whence, however, he soon removed to Clermont-Ferrand. Here he succeeded his brother Claude as organist at the cathedral.
Burning with desire to remedy the imperfections of his early education, Rameau diligently studied the writings of Zarlino, Descartes, Mersenne, F. Kircher and other theorists. He not only mastered their views but succeeded in demonstrating their weak points and substituting for them a system of his own. His keen insight into the constitution of certain chords, which in early life he had studied only by ear, enabled him to propound a series of hypotheses, many of which are now accepted as established facts. While the older contrapuntists were perfectly satisfied with the laws which regulated the melodious involutions of their vocal and instrumental parts, Rameau demonstrated the possibility of building up a natural harmony upon a fundamental bass, and of using that harmony as an authority for the enactment of whatever laws might be considered necessary for the guidance either of the contrapuntist or the less ambitious general composer. And in this he first explained the distinction between two styles, which have been called the “ horizontal and vertical systems,” the “ horizontal system ” being that by which the older contrapuntists regulated the onward motion of their several parts, and the “ vertical system ” that which constructs an entire passage out of a single harmony. From fundamental harmonies he passed to inverted chords, to which her‘was the first to call attention; and the value of this discovery fully compensates for his erroneous theory concerning the chords of the eleventh and the great (Angl. “ added ”) sixth (see Harmony).
Rameau first set forth his new theory in his Traité de Vharmonie (Paris, 1722), and followed it up in his Nouveau système (1726), Génération harmonique (1737), Démonstration (1750) and Nouvelles réflexions (1752). But it was not only as a theorist that he became famous. Returning to Paris in 1722 he first attracted attention by composing some light dramatic pieces, and then showed his real powers in his opera, Hippolyte et Aride, founded on Racine’s Phèdre and produced at the Académie in 1733. Though this work was violently opposed by the admirers of Lulli, whose party spirit eventually stirred up the famous “ guerre des bouffons,” Rameau’s genius was too brilliant to be trampled under foot by an ephemeral faction and his ultimate triumph was assured. He afterwards produced more than twenty operas, the most successful of which were DardanuSj Castor el Pollux, Les Indes galantes and La princesse de Navarre. Honours were showered upon him. He was appointed conductor at the Opéra Comique, and the directors of the opera granted him a pension. King Louis XV. appointed him composer to the court in 1745, and in 1764 honoured him with a patent of nobility and the order of St Michael. But these last privileges were granted only on the eve of his death at Paris on the 12th of September 1764.
See biographies in Charles Poisset (1864), Nisard (1867), Pougin (1876).
RAMESES, or Ramesses (Gen. xlvii. 11; Exod. xii. 37; Num. xxxiii. 3), or, with a slight change in the vowel points, Raamses (Exod. i. n), the name of a district and town in Lower Egypt, is notable as affording the mainstay of the current theory that King Rameses II. was the pharaoh of the oppression and his successor Minephthas the pharaoh of the exodus. The actual facts, however, hardly justify so large an inference. The
first three passages cited above are all by the priestly <post-cxile) author and go together. Jacob is settled by his son Joseph in the land of Rameses and from the same Rameses the exodus naturally takes place. The older narrative speaks not of the land of Rameses but of the land of Goshen; it seems probable, therefore, that the later author interprets an obsolete term by one current in his own day, just as the Septuagint in Gen. xlvi. 28 names instead of Goshen Heroopolis and the land of Rameses. Heroopolis lay on the canal connecting the Nile and the Red Sea, and not far from the head of the latter, so that the land of Rameses must be sought in Wadi TQmfiat near the line of the modern fresh-water canal. In £xod. i. 11, again, the store-cities or arsenals which the Hebrews built for Pharaoh are specified as Pithom and Raamses, to which the Septuagint adds Heliopolis. Pithom also takes us to the Wadi TOmilat. But did the Israelites maintain a continuous recollection of the names of the cities on which they were forced to build, or were these names rather added by a writer who knew what fortified places were in his own time to be seen in Wadi TOmilat? The latter is far the more likely case, when we consider that the old form of the story of the Hebrews in Egypt is throughout deficient in precise geographical data, as might be expected in a history not committed to writing till the Israelites had resided for centuries in another and distant land. The post-exile or priestly author indeed gives a detailed route for the exodus (which is lacking in the older story), but he, we know, was a student of geography and might supplement tradition by what he could gather from traders as to the caravan routes.@@1 And at all events to argue that, because the Hebrews worked at a city named after Rameses, they did so in the reign of the founder, is false reasoning, for the Hebrew expression might equally be used of repairs or new works of any kind.
It appears, however, from remains and inscriptions that Rameses II. did build in WSdi Tumilat, especially at Tell Maskhuta, which Lcpsius therefore identified with the Raamses of Exodus. This identification is commemorated in the name of the adjacent railway station. But Naville’s excavations found that the ruins were those of Pithom and that Pithom was identical with the later Heroopolis. Petrie found sculptures of the age of Rameses II. at Tel Rotab, in the Wadi Tumilat west of Pithom, and concludes that this was Rameses. The Biblical city is probably one of those named Prameses, “ House of Ramesses,” in the Egyptian texts.
See Pithom; and W. M. F. Petrie, Hyksos and Israelite Cities, p. 28 et sqq.    (W. R. S., F. Ll. G.)
RAMESWARAM, a town of British India, in the Madura district of Madras, on the island of Pambam in Palk Straits. It contains one of the most venerable Hindu shrines, founded, according to tradition, by Rama himself, which for centuries has been the resort of thousands of pilgrims from all parts of India. The great temple, with its pillared corridors 700 ft. long, is perhaps the finest example of Dravidian architecture.
RAMIE (Rhea, China-grass), the product of one or more species of the genus Boehmeria, a member of the order Urticaceae and nearly allied to the stinging nettle genus (Urtica), from which, however, it differs in absence of stinging hairs. Some confusion has arisen in the use of the various terms China-grass, Ramie and Rhea. Two plants are concerned. One, Boehmeria nivea, China-grass, has been cultivated by the Chinese from very early times under the name Tschou-ma. The other, probably a variety of the same species (Boehmeria nivea, var. tenacissima)t though sometimes regarded as a distinct species (B. lenacissima), is the Ramie (Malay zdmt) of the Malay Islands and the Rhea of Assam.
. Boehmeria nivea is a shrubby plant with the growth of the common nettle but without stinging hairs, sending up each season a number of straight shoots from a perennial underground rootstock. The long-stalked leaves recall those of the nettle in their shape and serrated margin, but their backs are
@@@1 From the position of the words it is even not unlikely that 11 Pithom and Raamses ” may be the addition of a redactor, and that the first author of Exod. i. 11 only spoke generally of store-cities.
clothed with a downy substance and have a silvery appearance. The minute greenish flowers are closely arranged along a slender axis. This variety has been cultivated by the Chinese for many years, and the fibre, which is obtained from it by a tedious hand-process, has been used more or less as a substitute for silk.
The variety tenacissima differs in its more robust habit and larger leaves, which are pale green on the face and a very much paler green on the bark. They are not downy, however, and this affords a ready means of distinction from true China-grass. Boehmeria nivea is sometimes found wild in India, Malaya, China and Japan, and is probably a.native of further India and Malaya. China-grass and ramie are widely cultivated not only in China, Formosa, Japan, India and Malaya, but also in Queensland, Mauritius, the Cameroons, the West Indies, Brazil, Mexico and the southern states of North America, and also in south Europe.
The plant, which attains a height of from 3 to 8 ft., is grown from seed, cuttings or layers, or by division of the roots. It is easy to cultivate, and thrives in almost any soil, but especially in a naturally rich, moist, light, loamy soil. For the best growth a good and equally distributed rainfall is necessary. Sudden changes of weather result in irregularities in growth, and these have a tendency to produce plants the fibres of which vary in strength. Liberal manuring is necessary, as the plant withdraws a large quantity of valuable constituents from the soil. The plants should be cut when the flower is beginning to fall and the seed to form.
It is stated that two to four crops per season may be obtained on suitable ground, each crop yielding about 4 tons of stems per acre. With only two crops per year, and a 4% yield of fibre, the resulting product would nearly reach one-third of a ton per acre. When proper attention is given to the choice of ground, and to planting, there is not much difficulty in the way of raising a good crop; the trouble arises in the extraction of the fibre.
The stems when ripe are cut down, and after the leaves and small branches have been removed, the outer cover and the layers of fibre are stripped off in the form of ribbons. These ribbons contain the bark, the fibre and a quantity of very adhesive gum. The Chinese remove this bark and as much of the gum as possible before the plant has dried. This hand-process is naturally a slow and tedious one, and many decorti-cators have been invented to supplant it. The action of all these decorticators is very similar. The ramie stalks are fed into the machine, and during their passage are beaten by 12 to 20 rapidly revolving blades. These break the stalks into small pieces, and leave the bark and fibre in long ribbons. At the same time, part of the gum is squeezed out between the beaters and the anvil. Up to the present, however, these machines have not been very successful. They usually bruise or otherwise injure the fibre, and they do not squeeze out the gum thoroughly. If the gum be allowed to dry on the ribbons it is difficult to remove it, and the chemicals employed in the degumming, if not thoroughly removed by washing, often injure the fibre to such an extent that the ultimate fabric or article is soon decomposed. If, however, the ribbons be degummed immediately, or soon after the plants are cut down, the gum will be much more easily extracted—indeed it might be possible to remove it then by boiling water or steam. The fibre cannot be expected to make much headway until the operations of decorticating and degumming are successfully carried out on or near the growing grounds; and, until a proficient decorticator is made, the fibre should be stripped by hand and the degumming operation begun immediately. By this method the least possible damage would result to the fibre, no waste material would be shipped, and a clean fibre would be placed on the market.
The fibre possesses some very valuable properties; it is not only much stronger than any other known fibre, but almost equals silk in its brilliance. This latter property, however, is now challenged by mercerized cotton. It successfully resists atmospheric changes, is easily dyed and is affected but little by moisture. On the other hand, articles manufactured from it are-
said to crack and break easily when sharply bent, and on account of their hairy character have not the same smart appearance as those made from flax. Although the fibre is in some cases
12    in. long, it varies considerably in length. This is one of the drawbacks in the preparing and spinning. It is impossible to make perfect yams from fibres of various lengths; hence it is necessary either to separate the fibres into reasonable groups, or to cut them into satisfactory lengths. The latter method appears, on the whole, to be the better, and it is the method adopted by Messrs Greenwood & Batley Limited, Leeds, who make special machinery for the dressing, preparing and spinning of ramie and China-grass. If no special machinery be employed, the length of the fibre will decide the class of machinery to be used. The fibre has been prepared and spun on flax, wool and silk-waste machinery, but it must be understood that none of these systems are really suitable for the process. A fihre with special characteristics requires special machinery for its manufacture.
When so many different opinions obtain as to which existing machinery is best adapted for the preparing and spinning of ramie, it is not surprising to find that different methods are employed in the process of manufacture. In general, however, we may say that, after decortication, the first processes that of degummin^. This is usually done by immersing the fibre in a caustic soda solution, which is then heated in a closed vessel. The fibre is laid on galvanized trays, of which as many as forty-four can be fitted in a cage, w hich is then placed inside the boiling keir, the lid of which is screwed down and the necessary pressure of steam admitted. After having been boiled a sufficient time to remove the gum, the material is lifted out, the alkali neutralized, and the fibre thoroughly washed to remove all traces of chemicals. The bulk of the water is removed by a hydro-extractor, and the fibre is then hung up or laid on perforated plates to dry.
To facilitate the subsequent processes, the fibre is softened by passing it through a machine fitted with fluted rollers. Then follow the operations of dressing, roving, wet spinning and doubling, and finally the twisted thread is passed rapidly through a gas flame in order to remove all superfluous hairs.
In spite of the many disappointments which have been experienced in connexion with the treatment of this fibre, we are of the opinion that it will ultimately hold a good place amongst commercial fibres. It is at present spun in^ several European^ countries, but its use is still very limited. This is due^ not to any imperfection of the fibre, but to its price and to the limited supply of raw material. It is at present chiefly used for gas mantles, for which it is particularly well adapted. It has also been used for paper-making, ropes, lines, nets, underwear, and for canvas and several other fabrics. If only a good supply of clean fibre could be obtained, there is not the least doubt that manufacturers^ and machine-makers would quickly provide means for dealing with it.    (T. Wo.)
RAMILLIES, a village of Belgium, in the province of Brabant,
13    miles N. by E. of Namur, between the sources of the Little Gheete and of the Mehaigne. It is famous for the victory of the Allies under the duke of Marlborough over the French commanded by Marshal Villeroy on the i2th/23rd of May 1706. The position of the French on the high ground about Ramillies was marked by the villages of Autreglise (Anderkirch) on the left, Offuz on the left centre, Ramillies on the right centre and Taviers on the right close to the river Mehaigne. In front of the last was a smaller village, Franquenay, which was held as an advanced post. Between these points d’appui the ground was mostly open upland, and the position as a whole was defective in so far that the villages were barely within cannon-shot of each other. It was particularly strong on the flanks, which were protected by the marshy beds of the Mehaigne and the Little Gheete. Ramillies stands almost on the watershed of these adjacent valleys, and here Marlborough decided to deliver his main attack. The forces were about equal, and were at first equally distributed along the whole line of either party. Marlborough’s local concentration of force at the spot where the attack was to be pressed home was made not before, but after the action had opened (cf. Neerwinden). Villeroy’s left wing of cavalry and infantry was secure—and at the same time immobilized—behind the upper course of the Little Gheete, and the French commander allowed himself to be imposed upon by a demonstration in this quarter, convinced perhaps by the presence of the British contingent that a serious attack was
intended. The morning was spent in arraying the lines of battle, and it was about 1.30 when the cannonade opened. Soon the first lines of infantry of the Allied centre and left (Dutch) opened the attacks on Franquenay and Taviers and on Ramillies, and, when after a severe struggle Taviers fell into the hands of the Dutch, their commander, Marshal Overkirk, led forward the whole of the left wing cavalry and fiercely engaged the French cavalry opposed' to it. The ground was open, both parties had placed the greater part of their horse on this side, and it was only after a severe and prolonged engagement (in which Marlborough himself took part like a trooper and was unhorsed) that the Allies were definitely victorious, thanks to the arrival of a force of cavalry brought over from the Allied right wing. Meanwhile the principal attack on Ramillies had been successfully pressed home, the necessary concentration of force being secured by secretly and skilfully withdrawing some British battalions from the right wing. While Villeroy was trying to bring up supports from the left to take part in the cavalry battle, the French in Ramillies were driven out into the open, where the Allied cavalry, having now gained the upper hand, rode down many battalions. Most of the French cavalry from the other wing, having to force its way through the baggage trains of the army (these had been placed too near the fighting lines), arrived too late, and once Ramillies had fallen the whole line of the Allies gradually took up the offensive. It was not long before the French line was rolled up from right to left, and the retreat of the French was only effected in considerable confusion. Then followed for once a relentless pursuit, carried on by the British cavalry (which had scarcely been engaged) to Louvain, 20 m. from the field of battle. Marlborough's unequalled tactical skill and judgment thus sufficed not merely to win the battle, but to win it with so large a margin of force unexpended that the fruits of his victory could be gathered. The French army lost, in killed, wounded and missing, some 15,000 men, the Allies (amongst whom the Dutch had Lome the brunt of the fighting) scarcely one-third as many.
RAMLER, KARL WILHELM (1725-1798), German poet, was born at Kolberg on the 25th of February 1725. After completing his studies in Halle, he went to Berlin, where, in 1748, he was appointed professor of logic and literature at the cadet school. In 1786 he became associated with the author, Johann Jakob Engel, in the management of the royal theatre, of which, after resigning his professorship, he became (1790-96) sole director. He died at Berlin on the nth of April 1798. Ramler was a skilful but cold and uninspired versifier; and the reputation he enjoys as poet and critic is mainly due to his skill in imitating and reproducing in German, classical (mostly Horatian) metrical forms; and he had a reputation, not unfounded, of correcting his friends' writings out of recognition. His Tod Jesu, a cantata, is well known owing to its musical setting by Karl Heinrich Graun.
Ramler published Geistliche Cantaten (1760) and Oden (1767). A collection of his works was published by L. F. G. von Göckingk (2 vols., 1800-1801). See also Heinsius, Versuch einer biographischen Skizze Ramlers (1798); and K. Schüddekopf, Karl Wilhelm Ramler, bis zu seiner Verbindung mit Lessing (1886).
RAMMELSBERG, KARL FRIEDRICH AUGUST (1813-1899), German mineralogist, was bom at Berlin on the ist of April 1813. He was educated for the medical profession and graduated in 1837 at Berlin University. In 1841 he became privatdozent in the university, and in 1845 professor extraordinary of chemistry. This post he relinquished in 1851 to take the chair of chemistry and mineralogy at the Royal Industrial Institute. In 1874 he was appointed professor of inorganic chemistry, and director of the second chemical laboratory at Berlin. Distinguished for his researches on mineralogy, crystallography and analytical chemistry, he laboured also at metallurgy, and yet found time for a series of important textbooks, in which his learning and sound judgment were combined with a lucid and accurate statement of facts. He was author of Handwörterbuch des chemischen Teils der Miner-alogie (2 vols., 1841; supp. 1843-53); Lehrbuch der chemischen
Metallurgic (1850); Handbuch der Krystdlographischen Chcmie (1855); Handbuch der Mineralchemic (i860); Handbuch der Krystallographisck-physikalischen Chentie (2 vols., 1881-82), some of the earlier works being incorporated in later and more comprehensive volumes with different titles. He died at Gross Lichterfelde, near Berlin, on the 28th of December 1899.
RAM MOHAN ROY (1774-1833), Indian religious reformer, and founder of the Brahma Samaj (q.v.) or Theistic Church, was born at Radhanagar, in the district of Hugli, Bengal, in May 1774. He was the son of a small landowner, and in his early life acquired a knowledge of Persian, Arabic and Sanskrit, besides his own vernacular, Bengali. At the age of sixteen he first assailed idolatry in his Bengali work, entitled The Idolatrous Religious System of the Hindus. This gave offence to his orthodox father, and Ram Mohan left home and spent some years in travel. At the age of twenty-two he began his study of the English language, and he also acquired a knowledge of other modern and ancient European languages. On the death of his father he obtained an appointment under the British government in 1800, from which he retired in 1814, settled down in Calcutta, and devoted himself to religious reform. He had already inaugurated a circle for discussing the absurdities of idol worship, and published a striking book in Persian called Tuhsat-al-Mnwahhiddin (“ A Gift to Monotheists ”). On his settlement in Calcutta he established a little friendly society (Atmiya Sabha)t which met weekly to read the Hindu scriptures and to chant monotheistic hymns. In 1820 he issued a selection from the Christian Gospels entitled The Precepts of Jesus the Guide to Peace and Happiness. He also wrote Bengali works on the Vedanta philosophy, translated some of the Upaniskadsf  entered into controversies with Christian missionaries, and on the 23rd of January 1830 definitely established the Brahma Samaj “ for the worship and adoration of the Eternal, Unsearchable, Immutable Being who is the Author and Preserver of the Universe.” He gave his support to the governor-general, Lord William Bentinck, for the abolition of the suttee rite, i.e. the custom of permitting Hindu widows to burn themselves on the funeral pyre of their husbands. He also worked hard to spread education among his fellow-countrymen, and to improve the quality and the prestige of the native press. In 1830 the emperor of Delhi bestowed on Ram Mohan the title of raja, and sent him to England as his agent. Raja Ram Mohan Roy gave his evidence before the Select Committee of the House of Commons on the judicial and revenue systems of India. He presented petitions to the House of Commons in support of the abolition of the suttee rite, and had the satisfaction of being present in the House when the appeal against such abolition was rejected on the 1 ith of July 1832. As the firat educated and eminent Indian who had come to England, he received a cordial welcome from learned men; and Bentham addressed him as an “ intensely admired and dearly beloved collaborator in the service of mankind.” Ram Alohan also visited France and contemplated a voyage to America, but a sudden attack of brain fever led to his death on the 27 th of September 1833. He was buried at Bristol, where a tomb was erected by his friend Dwarka Nath Tagore.
RAMNAD, a town of British India, in the Madura district of Madras, at the base of the spit of land that projects towards the island of Pamban in Palk strait. Pop. (1901) 14,546. It is the residence of a raja of old family, head of the Maravar caste, whose title is setupathi, or lord of Adam’s Bridge. The estate covers an area of 2104 sq. m., and pays a permanent land revenue of £25,000. It is a desolate and generally unfertile tract, traversed by the South Indian railway.
RAMNICU SARAT (Rtmnicu Sdrat)f the capital of the department of R&mnicu Sarat, Rumania; on the railway from Buzeu to Focshani, and on the left bank of the R&mnicu, a tributary of the Sereth. Pop. (1900) 13,134, about 1500 being Jews. The town rises from a marshy plain, east of the Carpathians, and west of the comlands of southern Moldavia. Salt and petroleum are worked in the mountains, and there is a considerable trade in agricultural produce and preserved meat. RAmnicu Sarat was the scene of battles between the Moldavians and the AValachians in 1434 and 1573, and between the Walachians and Turks in 1634. Here also, in 1789, an Austro-Russian army defeated the Turks. In 1854 the town was almost destroyed by fire and was rebuilt.
RAMNICUVALCEA(/?imn/c« Vdlcea), or Rymnik, an episcopal city and the capital of the department of VAlcea, Rumania; situated at the foot of the Carpathians, on the right bank of the river Olt, and on the railway from Caracal to Hermann-stadt in Transylvania. Pop. (1900) 7317. Three monasteries in the V&lcea department, those of Bistritza, Cozia and Horezu, are among the finest in Walachia. Besides wine, fruit, grain and timber, the surrounding uplands yield petroleum and salt. Within a few miles are the thermal springs of Olanestzi and the salt mines of Ocnele Mari. The city is said to be the ancient Castra Traiana, and many traces of old encampments bear evidence of this.
RAMPOLLA, COUNT MARIANO DEL TINDARO (1843-    ),
Italian cardinal, was born on the 17th of August 1843, at Polizzi, in the Sicilian diocese of CefaliL Having completed his studies in the Capranica College at Rome, and having taken holy orders, he studied diplomacy at the College of Ecclesiastical Nobles, and in 1875 was appointed councillor to the papal nunciature at Madrid. Two years later he was recalled to Rome and appointed secretary of the Propaganda for Eastern Affairs, and for Extraordinary Ecclesiastical Affairs. Consecrated titular archbishop of Heraclea in 1885, he returned to Madrid as nuncio, but was shortly afterwards created cardinal and appointed to the papal secretaryship of state. New to the Sacred College and free from traditional preconceptions, he was admirably fitted to carry out the papal policy under Leo XIII. (see Papacy). Rightly or wrongly, he was held personally responsible for the rapprochement with France and Russia and the opposition to the Powers of the Triple Alliance; and this attitude had its effect on his career when Leo XIII. died. Rampolla was undoubtedly the favourite among the papabili cardinals; but the veto of Austria was interposed (see Conclave), and the votes of the Sacred College fell to Cardinal Sarto, who on the 4th of August 1903 became pope as Pius X. Cardinal Rampolla at once resigned his office as secretary of state, being succeeded by Cardinal Merry del Val, and ceased to play any conspicuous part in the Curia.
RAMPUR, a native state of India, in subordination to the United Provinces. It lies in Rohilkhand, between the British districts of Moradabad and Pilibhit. Area, 893 sq. m. The country is level and generally fertile; being watered in the north by the rivers Kosila and Nahul, and in the south by the Ramganga. The chief crops are maize, rice and sugar cane. Pop. (1901) 533,212, showing a decrease of 3-3% in the decade. Estimated revenue, £234,000; military force, 2556 men, including two squadrons of Imperial Service lancers. The chief, whose title is nawab, is a Rohilla Pathan, representing the family which established their power over this part of the country in the 18th century. When the Rohillas were subjugated by the nawab of Oudh, with the assistance of a force lent by Warren Hastings, one of their number, Faiz-ullah Khan, from whom the present nawab traces his descent, was permitted to retain possession of Rampur. During the Mutiny of 1857 the nawab of Rampur rendered important services to the British, for which he received a grant of land'assessed at £9000 in perpetuity, besides other honours. The state is crossed by the main line of the Oudh & Rohilkhand railway from Bareilly to Moradabad. The town of Rampur is on the left bank of the river Kosila, 620 ft. above the sea, with a railway station 39 m. N.W. of Bareilly# Pop. (1901) 78,758. There are manufactures of damask, pottery, sword-blades and sugar. It is partially, and was once completely, surrounded by a broad bamboo hedge, which formed a strong defence. In addition to a modern fort and several fine buildings, it contains an Arabic college, which attracts students from all parts of India.
There are two other towns in India called Rampur, one
of which, the capital of the state of Bashahr in the Punjab, has given its name to the fine woollen shawls, widely known as Rampur chadars.
RAMPUR BOA LI A, or Beuleah, a town of British India, the administrative headquarters of Rajshahi district in Eastern Bengal and Assam; on the left bank of the Ganges. Pop. (1901) 21,589. It was originally chosen as a commercial factory for the silk trade, which is again being officially encouraged by the agricultural department. The town contains a government college, and an industrial school for sericulture. Most of the public buildings were severely damaged by the earthquake of the 12th of June 1897. There is a daily steamer service on the Ganges.
RAMSAY, ALLAN (1686-1758), Scottish poet, was bom at Leadhills, Lanarkshire, on the 15th of October 1686. He was educated at the parish school of Crawford, and in 1701 was apprenticed to a wig-maker in Edinburgh. He married Christian Ross in 1712; a few years after he had established himself as a wig-maker (not as a barber, as has been often said) in the High Street, and soon found himself in comfortable circumstances. His first efforts in verse-making were inspired by the meetings of the Easy Club (founded in 1712), of which he was an original member; and in 1715 he became the Club Laureate. In the society of the members he assumed the name of “ Isaac Bickerstaff,” and later of “ Gawin Douglas,” the latter partly in memory of his maternal grandfather Douglas of Muthill (Perthshire), and partly to give point to his boast that he was a “ poet sprung from a Douglas loin.” The choice of the two names has some significance, when we consider his later literary life as the associate of the Queen Anne poets and as a collector of old Scots poetry. By 1718 he had made some reputation as a writer of occasional verse, which he published in broadsheets, and then (or a year earlier) he turned bookseller in the premises where he had hitherto plied his craft of wig-making. In 1716 he had published a rough transcript of Christ’s Kirk on the Green from the Bannatyne MS., with some additions of his own. In 1718 he republished the piece with more supplementary verses. In the following year he printed a collection of Scots Songs. The success of these ventures prompted him to collect his poems in 1722. The volume wr as issued by subscription, and brought in the sum of four hundred guineas. Four years later he removed to another shop, in the neighbouring Luckenbooihs, where he opened a circulating library (the first in Scotland) and extended his business as a bookseller. Between the publication of the collected edition of his poems and his settling down in the Luckenbooths, he had published a few shorter poems and had issued the first instalments of The Tea-Table Miscellany and The Ever Green (both 1724-1727). The Tea-Table Miscellany is “A Collection of Choice Songs Scots and English,” containing some of Ramsay’s own, some by his friends, several well-known ballads and songs, and some Caroline verse. Its title was suggested by the programme of the Spectator: and the compiler claimed the place for his songs “e’en while the tea’s fill’d reeking round,” which Addison sought for his speculations at the hour set apart “ for tea and bread and butter.” In The Ever Green, being a Collection of Scots Poems wrote by the Ingenious before 1600, Ramsay had another purpose, to reawaken an interest in the older national literature. Nearly all the pieces were taken from the Bannatyne MS., though they are by no means verbatim copies. They included his version of Christ’s Kirk («.5.) and a remarkable pastiche by the editor entitled the Vision. While engaged on these two series, he produced, in 1725, his dramatic pastoral The Gentle Shepherd. In the volume of poems published in 1722 Ramsay had shown his bent to this genre, especially in “ Patie "and Roger,” which supplies two of the dramatis personae to his greater work. The success of the drama was remarkable. It passed through several editions, and was performed at the theatre in Edinburgh; its title is still known in every corner of Scotland, even if it be no longer read. Ramsay wrote little afterwards, though he published a few shorter poems, and new editions of his earlier work. A complete edition of his Poems appeared in London in 1731 and in Dublin in 1733. With a touch of vanity he expressed the fear lest “ the coolness of fancy that attends advanced years should make me risk the reputation I had acquired.” He was already on terms of intimacy with the leading men of letters in Scotland and England. He corresponded with Hamilton of Bangour (g.i>.), Somerville (?.».), Gay (g.z\) and Pope. Gay visited him in Edinburgh, and Pope praised his pastoral—compliments which were undoubtedly responsible for some of Ramsay’s unhappy poetic ventures beyond his Scots vernacular. The poet had for many years been a warm supporter of the stage. Some of his prologues and epilogues were written for the London theatres. In 1736 he set about the erection of a new theatre, “ at vast expense,” in Carrubber’s Close, Edinburgh; but the opposition was too strong, and the new house was closed in 1737. In 1755 he retired from his shop to the house on the slope of the Castle Rock, still known as Ramsay Lodge. In this house, called by his friends “ the goose-pie,” because of its octagonal shape, the poet died on the 7th of January 1758.
Ramsay’s importance in literary history is twofold. As a pastoral writer (“in some respects the best in the world,” according to Leigh Hunt) he contributed, at an early stage, to the naturalistic reaction of the 18th century. His Gentle Shepherd, by its directness of impression and its appreciation of country life, anticipates the attitude of the school which broke with neo-classical tradition. It has the “ mixed ” faults which make the greater poem of his Scots successor, Thomson, a “ transitional ” document, but these give it an historical, if not an individual, interest. His chief place is, however, as an editor. He is the connecting-link between the greater “Makars” of the 15th and 16th centuries, and Fergusson (g.i>.) and Burns. He revived the interest in vernacular literature, and directly inspired the genius of his greater successors. The preface to his Ever Green is a protest against “ imported trimming ” and “ foreign embroidery in our writings,” and a plea for a return to simple Scottish tradition. He had no scholarly interest in the past, and he never hesitated to transform the texts when he could give contemporary “ point ” to a poem; but his instinct was good, and he did much to stimulate an ignorant public to fresh enjoyment. In this respect, too, he anticipates the reaction in England which followed securely on Jthe publication of Percy’s Reliques.
The Tea-Table Miscellany was reprinted in 1871 (2 vols., Glasgow; John Crum); The Ever Green in 1875 (2 vols., Glasgow; Robert Forrester); The Poems of Allan Ramsay in 1877 (2 vols., Paisley; Alex. Gardner). These volumes are uniform in size* and binding, though issued by different publishers, u.s. A selection of the Poems appeared in 1887 (1 vol. i6mo, London; Walter Scott). There are many popular reprints of The Gentle Shepherd.    (G. G. S.)
RAMSAY, ALLAN (1713-1784), Scotch portrait-painter, the eldest son of the author of The Gentle Shepherd, was born at Edinburgh in 1713. Ramsay manifested an aptitude for art from an early period, and at the age of twenty we find him in London studying under the Swedish painter Hans Huyssing, and at the St Martin’s Lane Academy; and in 1736 he left for Rome, where he worked for three years under Solimena and Imperiali (Femandi). On his return he settled in Edinburgh; and, having attracted attention by his head of Forbes of Culloden and his full-length of the duke of Argyll, he removed to London, where he was patronized by the duke of Bridgewater. His pleasant manners and varied culture, not less than his artistic skill, contributed to render him popular. In 1767 he was appointed to succeed Shakelton as. principal painter to the king; and so fully employed was he on the royal portraits which the king was in the habit of presenting to ambassadors and colonial governors, that he was forced to take advantage of the services of a host of assistants—of whom David Martin and Philip Reinagle are the best known. His life in London was varied by frequent visits to Italy, where he occupied himself more in literary and antiquarian research than with art. But this prosperous career came to an end, his health being shattered by an accidental dislocation of the
right arm. With unflinching pertinacity he struggled till he had completed a likeness of the king upon which he was engaged at the time, and then started for his beloved Italy, leaving behind him a series of fifty royal portraits to be completed by his assistant Reinagle. For several years he lingered in the south, his constitution finally broken. He died at Dover on the roth of August 1784.
Among his most satisfactory productions are some of his earlier ones, such as the full-length of the duke of Argyll, and the numerous bust-portraits of Scottish gentlemen and their ladies which he executed before settling in London. They are full of both grace and individuality; the features show excellent draughtsmanship; and the flesh-painting is firm and sound in method, though frequently tending a little to hardness and opacity. His full-length of Lady Mary Coke is remarkable for the skill and delicacy with which the white satin drapery is managed; while in the portrait of his brown-eyed wife, the eldest daughter of Sir Alexander Lindsay of Evelick, in the Scottish National Gallery, we have a sweetness and tenderness which shows the painter at his highest. This last-named work shows the influence of French art, an influence which helped greatly to form the practice of Ramsay, and which is even more clearly visible in the large collection of his sketches in the possession of the Royal Scottish Academy and the Board of Trustees, Edinburgh.
RAMSAY, SIR ANDREW CROMBIE (1814-1891), British geologist, was born at Glasgow on the 31st of January 1814, being the son of William Ramsay, manufacturing chemist. He was for a time actually engaged in business, but from spending his holidays in Arran he became interested in the study of the rocks of that island, and was thus led to acquire the rudiments of geology. A geological model of Arran, made by him on the scale of two inches to the mile, was exhibited at the meeting of the British Association at Glasgow in 1840, and attracted the notice of Sir R. I. Murchison, with the result that he received from De la Beche an appointment on the Geological Survey, on which he served for forty years, from 1841 to 1881. He was first stationed at Tenby, and to that circumstance may be attributed the fact that so much of his geological work dealt with Wales. His first book, The Geology of the Isle of Arran, was published in 1841. In 1845 he became local director for Great Britain, but he continued to carry on a certain amount of field-work until 1854. To the first volume of the Memoirs of the Geological Survey (1846) he contributed a now classic essay, “ On the Denudation of South Wales and the Adjacent Counties of England,V in which he advocated the power of the sea to form great plains of denudation, although at the time he underestimated the influence of subaerial agents in sculpturing the scenery. In 1866 he published The Geology of North Wale$ (vol. iii. of the Memoirs) y of which a second edition was published in 1881. He was chosen professor of geology at University College, London, in 1848, and afterwards lecturer in the same subject at the School of Mines in 1851. ElcVen years later he was elected to the presidential chair of the Geological Society, and in 18-72 he succeeded Murchison as director-general of the Geological Survey. In 1880 he acted as president of the British Association at Swansea, and in the following “year retired from the public service, receiving at the same time the ■honour of knighthood. In i860 he published a little book entitled The Old Glaciers of Switzerland and North Wales. The study of this subject led him to discuss the Glacial Origin of Certain Lakes in Switzerland, the Black Forest,    He dealt
also with the origin of The Red Rocks of England (1871) and The River Courses of England and Wales (1872). He was especially interested in tracing out the causes which have determined the physical configuration of a district, and he devoted much -attention to the effects produced by ice, his name being identified with the hypothesis, which, however, has never commanded general assent, that in some cases lake basins have been scooped out by glaciers. A master in the broader .questions of stratigraphy and physical geology, he was a clear exponent of facts, but rather impatient of details, while his original and often bold theories, expressed both in lectures am in writings, stirred others with enthusiasm and undoubtedly exercised great influence on the progress of geology. Hi lectures to working men, given in 1863 in the Museum 0 Practical Geology, formed the nucleus of his famous Fhysica Geology and Geography of Great Britain (5th ed., 1878; 6th ed. by Η. B. Woodward, 1894)*. He received a Royal medal ii 1880 from the Royal Society, of which he became a fellow ii 1862; he was also the recipient of the Neill prize of the Roya Society of Edinburgh in 1866, and of the Wollaston medal 0 the Geological Society of London in 1871. He died at Beau maris on the 9th of December 1891.
See Memoir, by Sir A. Geikie, 1895.
RAMSAY, ANDREW MICHAEL (1686-1743), French writei of Scottish birth, commonly called the “ Chevalier Ramsay,” wa born at Ayr on the 9th of January 1686. Ramsay served will the English auxiliaries in the Netherlands, and in 1710 visite< Fenelon, who converted him to Roman Catholicism. He re mained in France until 1724, when he was sent to Rome as tuto to the Stuart princes, Charles Edward and Henry, the futur cardinal of York. He was driven by intrigue from this post and returned to Paris. He was in England in 1730, and receive* an honorary degree from the university of Oxford. The dain was nominally his discipleship to Fenelon, but in reality beyom doubt his connexion with the Jacobite party. He died a St Germain-en-Laye (Seine-et-Oise) on the 6th of May 1743 Ramsay’s principal work was Les voyages de Cyrus (London 1728; Paris, 1727), a book composed in avowed imitation c Tilimaque. He also edited TlUmaque itself (Paris, 2 vols., 1717 with an introduction, and wrote a Histoire de la vie et des outrage de Finelon (The Hague, 1723), besides a partial biograph (Paris, 1735) of Turenne, some poems (Edinburgh, 1728) i; English, and other miscellaneous works.
RAMSAY, DAVID (1749-1815), American physician an historian, the son of an Irish emigrant, was born in Lancaste county, Pennsylvania, on the 2nd of April 1749. He graduate at Princeton in 1765, and M.B. at the University of Penn sylvania in 1773, and then settled as a physician at Charlestor South Carolina, where he had a large practice. During th War of Independence he served as a field-surgeon (1780-1781' and from 1776 to 1783 he was a member of the South Carolin legislature. Having acted as one of the “ council of safety at Charleston, he was, on the capture of that city in 178c seized by the British as a hostage, and for nearly a year wa kept in confinement at St Augustine. From 1782 to 1786 h served in the Continental Congress, and from 1801 to 1815 i the state Senate, of which he was long president. In 1785 h published in two volumes History of the Revolution of Sout Carolina, in 1789 in two volumes History of the American Revolt lion, in 1807 a Life of Washingtofif and in 1809 in two volume a History of South Carolina. He was also the author of seven minor works. He died at Charleston on the 8th of May 181 from a wound inflicted by a lunatic. His History of the Unite States in 3 vols. was published posthumously in 1816-181; and forms the first three volumes of his Universal Histor Americanized, published in 12 vols. in 1819.
RAMSAY, ROBERT (1842-1882), Australian statesman, was native of Hawick, Roxburghshire, but his parents emigrated t Victoria when he was a child of four, and he was educated at th Scottish college in Melbourne. He studied law at Melbourn University, and subsequently became a member of a wT ell-know firm of solicitors in the city. He married in 1868 Isabel] Catherine Urquhart, and in 1870 entered the assembly for Ea: Bourke in the Conservative and free trade interest. He was member of the government of James Goodall Francis in 1872 74. He was subsequently postmaster-general (1874-75) i the administration of George Biscoe Kerferd; he held the sam office in conjunction with the ministry of education (1875-7; under Sir James M'Culloch; and for a short term in 18S0 I w*as chief secretary and minister of education in the fir-administration of James Service. He died on the 23rd < May 1882.
RAMSAY, SIR WILLIAM (1852-    ), British chemist,
nephew of Sir A. C. Ramsay, was born at Glasgow on the 2nd of October 1852. From 1866 to 1870 he studied in his native city, and then went to wT ork under R. Fittig at Tübingen. Returning to Glasgow in 1872 he became assistant in the Young laboratory of technical chemistry at Anderson’s College, and from 1874 acted as tutorial assistant in chemistry at the university. In 1880 he was appointed to the chair of chemistry at University College, Bristol, becoming principal in the following year, and in 1887 he succeeded A. W. Williamson as professor of chemistry at University College, London. His earlier work was mainly concerned with organic chemistry, and he published researches on picoline and its derivatives in 1876-78 and on quinine and its decomposition products in 1878-79. Later his attention was taken up with questions of physical and inorganic chemistry. With Sydney Young and others he investigated the critical state and properties of liquids and the relationship between their vapour pressures and temperature, and with John Shields he applied measurements of the surface tension of liquids to the determination of their molecular complexity. In 1894 he was associated with Lord Rayleigh in the discovery of argon, announced at that year’s meeting of the British Association in Oxford, and in the following year he found in certain rare minerals such as cleveite the gas helium which till that time had only been known on spectroscopic evidence as existing in the sun. In 1898 his work with Morris William Travers (b. 1872), who from 1894 had assisted him at University College, London, and in 1903 was appointed professor of chemistry at University College, Bristol, enabled him to announce the existence in the atmosphere of three new gases, neon, krypton and xenon. Turning to the study of radioactivity, he noticed its association with the minerals which yield helium, and in support of the hypothesis that that gas is a disintegration-product of radium he proved in 1903 that it is continuously formed by the latter substance in quantities sufficiently great to be directly recognizable in the spectroscope. Among the books written by Sir William Ramsay, who was created K.C.B. in 1902, are A System of Chemistry, 1891, The Gases of the Atmosphere, 1896, and ifodern Chemistry, vol. i. Theoretical, vol. ii. Systematic, 1901, and he edited a series of “Textbooks of Physical Chemistry.” RAMSAY, SIR WILLIAM MITCHELL (1851-    ), British
archaeologist, was born on the 15th of March 1851. He was educated at* the universities of Aberdeen, Oxford and Gottingen, and was a fellow of Exeter College, Oxford (1882; honorary fellow 1898), and Lincoln College (1885; honorary 1899). In 1885 he w as elected professor of classical art at Oxford, and in the next year professor of humanity at Aberdeen. From 1880 onwards he travelled widely in Asia Minor and rapidly became the recognized authority on all matters relating to the districts associated with St Paul’s missionary journeys and on Christianity in the early Roman Empire. He received the honorary degrees of D.C.L. Oxford, LL.D. St Andrews and Glasgow, D.D. Edinburgh, and was knighted in 1906. He was elected a member of learned societies in Europe and America, and has been awarded medals by the Royal Geographical Society, the Royal Scottish Geographical Society and the University of Pennsylvania. His numerous publications include: The Historical Geography of Asia Minor (1890); The Church in the Roman Empire (1893); The Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia (2 vols., 1895, 1897); St Paul the Traveller and the Roman Citizen (1895; Germ, trans., 1898); Impressions of Turkey (1897); Was Christ horn at Bethlehem? (1898); Historical Commentary on Galatians (1899); The Education of Christ (1902); The Letters to the Seven Churches of Asia (1905); Pauline and other Studies in Early Christian History (1906); Studies in the History and Art of the Eastern Provinces of the Roman Empire (1906); The Cities of St Paul (1907); Lucan and Pauline Studies (1908); The Thousand and One Churches (with Miss Gertrude L. Bell, 1909); and articles in learned periodicals and the 9th, 10th and nth editions of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. His wife, Lady Ramsay, granddaughter of Dr Andrew Marshall of Kirkintilloch, accompanied him in many of his journeys and is the author of Everyday Life in Turkey (1897) and The Romance of Elisavet (1899).
RAMSBOTTOM, an urban district in the Heywood parliamentary division of Lancashire, England, 4 m. N. of Bury, on the Lancashire & Yorkshire railway. Pop. (1901) 15,920. It has iron and brass foundries, machine factories and textile establishments.
RAMSDEN, JESSE (1735-1800), English astronomical instrument maker, was bom at Salterhebble near Halifax, Yorkshire, on the 6th of October 1735. After serving his apprenticeship with a cloth-worker in Halifax, he went in 1755 to London, where in 1758 he was apprenticed to a mathematical instrument maker. About four years afterwards he started business on his own account and secured a great reputation with his products. He died at Brighton on the 5th of November 1800. Ramsden’s speciality was divided circles, which began to supersede the quadrants in observatories towards the end of the 18th century. His most celebrated work was a 5-feet vertical circle, which was finished in 1789 and was used by G. Piazzi at Palermo in constructing his well-known catalogue of stars. He was the first to carry out in practice a method of reading off angles (first suggested in 1768 by the duke of Chaulnes) by measuring the distance of the index from the nearest division line by means of a micrometer screw which moves one or two fine threads placed in the focus of a microscope. Ramsien’s transit instruments were the first which were illuminated through the hollow axis; the idea was suggested to him by Prof. Henry Ussher in Dublin. He published a Description of an Engine for dividing Mathematical Instruments in 1777.
RAMSEY, a market-town in the Northern or Ramsey parliamentary division of Huntingdonshire, England, on the south-western border of the Fen country, on branch lines of the Great Northern and the Great Eastern railways, 13 m. S.S.E. of Peterborough. Pop. of urban district (1901) 4823. The fine church of St Thomas k Becket is transitional between Norman and Early English, and has a beautiful Norman east end. The tow er was built in 1672 of stone from Ramsey Abbey. An old oak lectern, dating from the middle of the 15th century, carries a chained copy, in a Tudor binding of brass, of Dean Comber’s (1655-99) book on the Common Prayer, and a black-letter copy of Erasmus’s Paraphrase of the Gospels. There are many interesting tombs in the churchyard, and the church register contains several entries relating to the Cromwell family, who removed hither from Huntingdon and owned the abbey estates till 1674. Of the ancient Benedictine abbey, the only remains are a part of a gateway, a lodge (a beautiful Perpendicular relic) and some buttresses, while some broken stone arches and. walls remain of the conventual buildings. The modern mansion of Ramsey Abbey contains many documentary relics of the abbey, as well as an early monument representing the founder.
According to a 12th-century chronicle of one of the monks, the name Ramsey is derived from the words “ ram,” referring to the tradition of a solitary ram having taken up its abode here, and “ ey ” meaning an island. Ramsey, however, was not completely insulated, like some of the monasteries of the Fen district. The abbey was founded by Ail win, earl of the East Angles, in 969, and a charter of King Edgar granted lands and privileges for the purpose. Ramsey Abbey was noted for the school established within its walls, and for its library of Hebrew works. Its abbot was mitred. The lands were granted after the dissolution to Sir Richard Cromwell.
RAMSEY, a seaport and watering-place on the north-east coast of the Isle of Man, 15 m. N.N.E. of Douglas. Pop. (1901) 4729. It lies on the wide Ramsey Bay, at the mouth of the Sulby river, the estuary of which forms a small harbour. To the north and west the country is flat, but to the south the lower slopes of the North Ballure hill rise sharply. A creek of the Sulby river on the north side of the town is formed into a’picturesque lake. The Queen’s pier permits of the landing of passengers at all times, and Ramsey is served by
frequent steamers from Liverpool and other ports. The shore of the bay is sandy and gently sloping, and excellent bathing is afforded. A golf links, a geological and antiquarian museum, the Mooragh Park by the side of the lake, and the palace or concert hall, are among the attractions to visitors. Ramsey is connected with Laxey, the summit of Snaefell, and Douglas by electric tramway, and has connexion with the western part of the island by the Manx Northern railway. The Albert tower, on a wooded hill above the town, commemorating a visit of the Prince Consort in 1847, is a favourite view-point. The harbour has some coasting and fishing trade.
RAMSGATE, a municipal borough, watering-place, seaport and member of the Cinque Port of Sandwich, in the Isle of Thanet parliamentary division of Kent, England, 79 m. E. by S. of London by the South Eastern & Chatham railway. Pop. (1901) 27,733. This is one of the most popular resorts on the Kent coa$t, well situated on the east coast of Thanet, practically contiguous with Broadstairs to the north, with which and Margate to the north-west it is united by an electric tramway. During the season steamers connect it with London and the intermediate watering-places on the north coast, and with Calais and Boulogne. The harbour has an area of 42 acres, and a considerable coasting and fishing trade is carried on. There is a fine sea front, and the beach is of firm sand. The promenade pier was erected in 1881. Near it an obelisk commemorates the departure of George IV. to Hanover from here, and his return, in 1821.. The church of St George was built in 1826, its tower forming a conspicuous landmark, and the Roman Catholic church of St Augustine was built from the designs and at the expense of A. W. Pugin, who was long a resident here. The neighbouring Pegwell Bay, famed for its shrimps, is supposed to have been the scene of the landing of Hengist and Horsa, and at Cliff's End (Ebbs Fleet) a monolithic cross marks the landing-place of St Augustine in 596. On the summit of Osengal Hill, about a mile to the west of the town, a graveyard of early Saxon settlers was discovered during the cutting of the railway. The remains proved it to belong to the 5th and 6th centuries. Ramsgate was incorporated in 1884, and is governed by a mayor, 6 aldermen and 18 councillors. Area, 2304 acres.
Ramsgate (Ramesgate) was originally a small but comparatively prosperous place united until 1827 to the parish of St Lawrence. The charter of Charles II. mentions it as having been “ time out of mind ” a member of Sandwich. In 1884 it was incorporated by royal charter, under the title of mayor, aldermen and councillors. A commission of the peace was granted in 1893. Since then the jurisdiction of the Cinque Ports* justices has ceased within its limits, which include the parishes of Ramsgate and St Lawrence Intra. A daily market was obtained in 1784 by grant from George III. No fair was then held, but from 1792 onwards there has been one yearly on the roth of August. Under Elizabeth, Ramsgate was still unimportant though possessed of a fair before the reign of Henry VIII. After 1668 the growth of trade increased its prosperity, and at the beginning of the reign of George I. the pier was enlarged and pier-wardens appointed to collect the droits. In 1749, having been selected as a Harbour of Refuge for the Downs, it underwent great improvements, and henceforward paid £200 yearly to Sandwich out of the droits for clearing the Channel and repairing the banks of the river Stour within the Liberty; but by 1790 the harbour was of small account.
RAMSONS, in botany, the popular name for Allium ttrsinum, a bulbous plant 6 to 18 in. high, with ovate-lanceolate stalked leaves tapering at the apex, surrounding a naked stalk bearing a flat-topped umbel of small white flowers. A rather pretty plant, common in woods and in hedgebanks in spring, but with a pungent garlic-like smell, which is characteristic of the genus (see Allium).
RAMUS, PETRUS, or Pierre de la Ram£e (1515-1572), French humanist, was bom at the village of Cuth in Picardy in 1515, a member of a noble but impoverished family; his father was a charcoal-burner. Having gained admission, in a. menial capacity, to the college of Navarre, he worked with his hands by day and carried on his studies at night. The reaction against scholasticism was still in full tide; it was the transition time between the old and the new, when the eager and forward-looking spirits had first of all to do battle with scholastic Aris-totelianism. Ramus outdid his predecessors in the impetuosity of his revolt. On the occasion of taking his degree (1536) he actually took as his thesis “ Everything that Aristotle taught is false.” This tour de force was followed up by the publication in 1543 of Arisioielicae Animadverjsiones and Dialecticae Par-tilioneSj the former a criticism on the old logic and the latter a new textbook of the science. What are substantially fresh editions of the Par tit tones appeared in 1547 as Institutiones Dialecticae, and in 1548 as Scholae Dialecticae; his Dialeclique (1555), a French version of his system, is the earliest work on the subject in the French language. Meanwhile Ramus, as graduate of the university, had opened courses of lectures; but his audacities drew upon him the hostility of the conservative party in philosophy and theology. He was accused of undermining the foundations of philosophy and religion, and the matter was brought before the parlement of Paris, and finally before Francis I. By him it was referred to a commission of five, who found Ramus guilty of having “ acted rashly, arrogantly and impudently,” and interdicted his lectures (1544). He withdrew from Paris, but soon afterwards returned, the decree against him being cancelled through the influence of the cardinal of Lorraine. In 1551 Henry II. appointed him professor of philosophy and eloquence at the College de France, where for a considerable time he lectured before audiences numbering as many as 2000. He published fifty works in his lifetime and nine appeared after his death. In 1561, however, the enmity against him was fanned into flame by his adoption of Protestantism. He had to flee from Paris; and, though he found an asylum in the palace of Fontainebleau, his house was pillaged and his library burned in his absence. He resumed his chair after this for a time, but in 1568 the position of affairs was again so threatening that he found it advisable to ask permission to travel. Returning to France he fell a victim to his opponents in the massacre of St Bartholomew (157^).
The logic of Ramus enjoyed a great celebrity for a time, and there existed a school of Ramists boasting numerous adherents in France* Germany and Holland. As late as 1626 F. Burgersdyk divides the logicians of his day into the Aristotelians, the Ramists and the Semi-Ramists, who endeavoured, like Goclenius of Marburg, to mediate between the contending parties. Ramus’s works appear among the logical textbooks^ of the Scottish universities, and he was not without his followers in England in the 17th century. There is even a little treatise from the hand of Milton, published two years before his death, called Artis Logicae Plenior Inslitutio ad Petri Rami Metkodum concinnata. It cannot be said, however, that Ramus’s innovations mark any epoch in the history of logic. His rhetorical leaning is seen in the definition of logic as the “ ars dis-serendi **; he maintains that the rules of logic may be better learned from observation of the way in which Cicero persuaded his hearers than from a study of the Organon. The distinction between natural and artificial logic, i.e. between the implicit logic of daily speech and the same logic made explicit in a system, passed over into the logical handbooks. Logic falls, according to Ramus, into two parts—invention (treating of the notion and definition) and judgment (comprising the judgment proper, syllogism and method). This division gave rise to the jocular designation of judgment or mother-wit as the “ sccunda Petri/* He is, perhaps, most suggestive in his emendations of the syllogism. He admits only the first three figures, as in the original Aristotelian scheme, and in his later works he also attacks the validity of the third figure, following in this the precedent of Laurentius Valla. Ramus also set the modem fashion of deducing the figures frony the position of^ the middle term in the premises, instead of basing them, as Aristotle does, upon the different relation of the middle to the so-called major and minor term. On the whole, however, though Ramus may be allowed to have advanced logical study by the wholesome fermentation of thought which he caused, there is little ground for his pretentious claim to supersede Aristotle by a new and independent system.
See Waddington-Kastus, De Petri Rami vita, scriptis, pkilosophia (Paris, 1848); Charles Desmaze, Petrus Ramus, professeur au College de France, sa vie, ses Merits, sa mort (Paris, 1864); P. Lobstein,
P. Ramus als Theolog (Strassburg, 1878) ;E. Saisset, Les précurseurs de Descartes (Paris, 1862) ; J. Owen, French Skeptics o f the Renaissance (London, 1893); K. Prantl, '‘Über P. Ramus*’ in Münchener Sitzungs berichte (1878); H. Höffding, Hist. of Mod. PhiL (Eng. trans., 1900), vol. i. 185; Voigt, Über den Ramismus der Universität Leipzig (Leipzig, 1888).
RAMUSIO. The noble Italian family of Ramusio—the spelling adopted in the publication of the Navigationi, though it is also written Ramnusio, Rhamnusio, Rannusio, &c.—was one of note for literary and official ability during at least four generations. Its original home was in Rimini, and the municipality of that city has within the last few years set up a tablet on the town hall bearing an inscription which may be thus rendered: “ The municipality of Rimini here records the claim of their city to the family of the Ramusios, adorned during the 15th and 16th centuries by the illustrious jurist and man of letters Paolo the elder, who rendered the work of Valturius, our fellow-citizen, into the vernacular; by the physician Girolamo, a most successful student of Oriental tongues, and the first to present Europe with a translation of Avicenna; and by Giovanni Battista, cosmographer to the Venetian republic and secretary to the Council of Ten, who bequeathed to the world that famous collection of voyages and travels, regarded in his own day as a marvellous work, and still full of authority among all civilized nations.”
Paolo the Elder (c. 1443-1506), the first of those thus commemorated, migrated in 1458 from Rimini to Venice, where he obtained full citizenship, studied law and became a member of the magistracy, filling the offices of vicario, of judicial assessor, and of criminal judge under various administrators of the Venetian provinces on the continent. He continued, however, to maintain relations with the Malatesta princes of his native city, and in 1503 negotiated with them the cession of Rimini to the republic. The wife of Paolo, bearing the singular name of Tomyris Macachio, bore him three sons and four daughters. Paolo died at Bergamo on 19th August 1506 at the age of sixty-three, and was buried in S. Agostino at Padua. Paolo was the author of a variety of legal treatises and the like, and also published at Verona in 1483 both a corrected edition and an Italian translation of a once famous book, Vallurius, De re militari, dedicating both to Pandolfo Malatesta of Rimini.@@1
Girolamo (1450-1486), younger brother of Paolo, had a notable history. After he had studied medicine at Padua public suspicion was roused against him in connexion wdth the death of a lady with whom he had had some love passages, and this ran so high that he was fain, by help of his brother Paolo, to whom he transferred his property, to make his escape (about 1481-1483) to Syria and to take up his abode at Damascus. In 1486 he removed to Beyrout, and died the same year, killed, as the family chronicler relates, by a surfeit of “ certain fruit that wr e call armcllini and albicocche, but which in that country are known as mazzafranchi,” a title which English sailors in southern regions still give to apricots in the vernacular paraphrase of killjohns. During his stay in Syria Girolamo studied Arabic and made a new translation of Avicenna, or rather, we may assume, of some part of that author’s medical works (the Canon ?). It was, however, by no means the first such translation, as is erroneously alleged in the Rimini inscription, for the Canon had been translated by Gerard of Cremona (d. 1187), and this version was frequently issued from the early press. Girolamo’s translation was never printed, but was used by editors of versions published at Venice in 1579 and 1606. Other works of this questionable member of the house of Ramusio consisted of medical and philosophical tracts and Latin poems, some of which last were included in a collection published at Paris in 1791.@@2
Gian Battista (1485-1557), the eldest son of Paolo Ramusio and Tomyris Macachio, was bom at Treviso in 1485 (June 20). Having been educated at Venice and at Padua, at an early
age he entered the public service (1505), becoming in 1515 secretary of the senate and in 1533 secretary of the Council of Ten. He also served the republic in various missions to foreign states, e.g. to Rome, to Switzerland and to France, travelling over much of the latter country by special desire of the king, Louis XII. He also on several occasions filled the office of cancellier grande. In 1524 he married Franceschina, daughter of Francesco Navagero, a noble—a papal dispensation being required on account of her being cousin to his mother Tomyris. By this lady he had one son, Paolo. In his old age Ramusio resigned the secretaryship and retired to the Villa Ramusia, a property on the river Masanga, in the province of Padua, which had been bestowed on his father in 1504 in recognition of his services in the acquisition of Rimini the year before. The delights of this retreat are celebrated in the poems and letters of several of Gian Battista’s friends. He also possessed a house at Padua in the Strada del Patriarcato, a mansion noted for its paintings and for its collection of ancient sculpture and inscriptions. These, too, are commemorated by various writers. A few days before his death Ramusio removed to this house in Padua, and there died, 10th of July x557, at the age of seventy-two. He was, by his own desire, buried at Venice, in the tomb which he had made for his mother, in Santa Maria dell’ Orto. His wife's death had occurred in 1536. In the work called Museum Mazzuchellianum (Venice, 1761, vol. i. pi. lxiv. No. 6) there is represented a 16th-century medal of Ramusio, which looks a genuine likeness, and a bronze example of which, without the reverse,3 is preserved in St Mark’s Library. There was a portrait of him, represented as in conversation with Andrea Gradenlgo, in the Sala del Maggior Consiglio, but in 1577 this perished in a fire, as did also a portrait of his father, Paolo. A professed portrait of Gian Battista by Francesco Grisellini, in the Sala dello Scudo, appears to be, like the companion portrait of Marco Polo, a wr ork of fancy. A public nautical school at Rimini received from the government the title of the Istituto Ramusio.
Ramusio was evidently a general favourite, as he was free from pushing ambition, modest and ingenuous, and, if it be safe to judge from some of the dissertations in his Narigationi, must have been a delightful companion; both his friend Giunti and the historian Giustiniani4 speak of him with the strongest affection. He had also a great reputation for learning. Before he was thirty Aldus Manutius the elder dedicated to him his edition of Quintilian (1514); a few years later (1519) Francesco Ardano inscribed to him an edition of Livy, and in 1528 Bernardino Donati did the like with his edition of Macrobius and Censorinus. To Greek and Latin and the modem languages of southern Europe he is said to have added a knowledge of “ Oriental tongues,” but there is no evidence how far this went, unless we accept as such a statement that he was selected in 1530 on account of this accomplishment to investigate the case of one David, a Hebrew, who, claiming to be of the royal house of Judah, wished to establish himself at Venice outside of the Ghetto.5 But Ramusio had witnessed from his boyhood the unrolling of that great series of discoveries by Portugal and Spain in East and West, and the love of geography thus kindled in him
@@@1    Both works are in the British Museum.
@@@2    “ Ramusii Ariminensis Carmina,” in Quinque Illustrium Poetarum .. . Lusus in Venerem. Girolamo’s are grossly erotic.
3    The reverse is an amorphous map. The book is in the British Museum.
4    Rerum Venetarum . . . Historic, bk. xiv.
6 Ramusio’s report on this Hebrew is preserved in the diaries of Marcus Sanudo, and is printed by Cigogna. ^ It is curious. David represented himself as a prince of the Bedouin Jews who haunt the caravan-road between Damascus and Medina; he claimed to be not only a great warrior covered with wounds but great also in the law and in the cabala, and to have been inspired by God to conduct the dispersed tribes to the Holy Land and to rebuild the temple. In this view he had visited Prester John and the Jews in his kingdom, and then various European countries. David was dark in complexion, “ like an Abyssinian, lean, dry and Arab-like, well dressed and well attended, full of pretensions to supernatural cabalistic knowledge, and with enthusiastic ideas about his mission, whilst the Jews regarded him as a veritable Messiah.
made that branch of knowledge through life his chief study and delight. He is said, with the assistance of friends touched by the same flame, to have opened a school for geography in his house at Venice. And it appears from a letter addressed to him by his friend Andrea Navagero, that as early as 1523 the preparation of material for his great work had already begun. The task had been suggested and encouraged, as Ramusio himself states in a dedicatory epistle to the famous Girolamo Fracastoro, by that scholar, his lifelong friend; an address to the same personage indeed introduced each of the three volumes, and in the first the writer speaks of his desire to bequeath to posterity, along with his labours, u a testimony to the long and holy friendship that had existed between the two.” They were contemporaries in the strictest sense (Ramusio 1485-1557, Fracastorius 1483-1553). His correspondence, which was often devoted to the collection of new material for his work, was immense, and embraced many distinguished men. Among those whose names have still an odour of celebrity were Fracastoro, just mentioned, Cardinal Pietro Bembo, Damiano de Goez, and Sebastian Cabot; among lesser lights, Vcttor Fausto, Daniel Barbaro, Paolo Manuzio, Andrea Navagero, the cardinals Gasparo Contarini and Gregorio Cortese, and the printer Tommaso Giunti, editor after Ramusio’s death of the Navigationi.
Two volumes only of the Navigationi e Viaggi were published during the life of Gian Battista, vol. i. in 1550, vol. iii. in 1556; vol. ii. did not appear till 1559, two years after his death, delayed, as his friend and printer T. Giunti explains, not only by that event but by a fire in the printing-office (November 1 557)i which destroyed a part of the material which had been prepared. It had been Ramusio’s intention to publish a fourth volume, containing, as be mentions himself, documents relating to the Andes, and, as appears from one of the prefaces of Giunti, others relating to explorations towards the Antarctic.@@1  Ramusio’s collection was by no means the first of the kind, though it was, and we may say on the whole continues to be, the best. Even before the invention of the press such collections were known, of which that made by a certain Long John of Ypres, abbot of St Bertin, in the latter half of the 14th century was most meritorious, and afforded in its transcription a splendid field for embellishment by the miniaturists, which was not disregarded. The best of the printed collections before Ramusio’s was the Novus Orbis, edited at Basel by Simon Grynaeus in 1532, and reissued in 1537 and 1555. This, however, can boast of no disquisitions nor of much editorial judgment. Ramusio’s collection is in these respects far superior, as well as in the variety and fulness of its matter. He spared no pains in ransacking Italy and the Spanish peninsula for contributions, and in translating them when needful into the racy Italian of his day. Several of the pieces are very rare in any other shape than that exhibited in Ramusio’s collection; several besides of importance—e.g. the invaluable travels of Barbosa and Pigafetta’s account of Magellan’s voyage—were not publicly known in any complete form till the present century. Of two important articles at least the originals have never been otherwise printed or discovered; one of these is the Summary of ail the Kingdoms, Cities, and Nations from the Red Sea to China, a work translated from the Portuguese, and dating apparently from about 1535; the other, the remarkable Ramusian redaction of Marco Polo (q.v.). The Prefat tone, Espositione and Dichiarazione, which precede this version of Marco Polo’s book, are the best and amplest examples of Ramusio’s own style as an editor. They are full of good sense and of interesting remarks derived from his large reading and experience, and few pictures in words were ever touched more delightfully than that in which he sketches the return of the Polo family to their native city, as he had received it in the tradition of the Venetian elders.
There were several editions of the Navigationi e Viaggi. and
@@@1 See in vol. iii. the end of Ramusio's Discorso on the conquest of Peru, and Giunti’s “ Alii Lettori ” in the 3rd edition of the first volume.
as additions continued to be made to the several volumes a good deal of bibliographical interest attaches to these various modifications.@@ The two volumes (i. and iii.) published in Ramusio’s lifetime do not bear his name on the title-page, nor does it appear in the addresses to his friend Fracastorius with which these volumes begin (as does also the second and posthumous volume). The editions of vol. i. are as follows: 1550» 1554* 1563»    1606, 1613.@@* The edition of 1554
contains the following articles which are not in that of 1550: (1) copious index; (2) “ Nam di un Compagno di Barbosa”; (3) “ Informationi del Giapan ”; (4) “ Alii Lettori di Giov. de Barros ”; (5) “ Capitoli estratti da di Barros.” The edition of 1563 adds to these a preliminary leaf concerning Ramusio,
“ Tommaso Giunti alii Lettori.” After 1563 there is no change in the contents of this volume, only in the title-page. It should be added that in the edition of 1554 there are three double-page woodcut maps (Africa, India and India extra Gangem), which do not exist in the edition of 1550, and which are replaced by copperplate maps in subsequent editions. These maps are often missing. The editions of vol. ii. are as follows: 1559, 1574, 1583, 1606. There are important additions in the 1574 copy, and still further additions in that of 1583. The additions made in 1574 were: (1) “ Herberstein, Della Moscovia e della Russia ”; (2) “ Viaggio in Persia di Caterino Zeno (3) “ Scoprimento dell’ Isola Frislanda, &c., per due fratelli Zeni ”; (4) “ Viaggi in Tartaria per alcuni frati Minori ”; (5) " Viaggio del Beato Odorico ” (two versions). Further additions made in 1583 were: (1) u Navigatione di Seb. Cabota (2) at the end 90 ff. with fresh pagination, containing ten articles on “ Sarmatia, Polonia, Lithuania, Prussia, Livonia, Moscovia, and the Tartars by Aless. Guagnino and Matteo di Micheovo.” The two latest “ editions ” of vol. ii. are identical, i.e. from the same type, with a change of title-page only, and a reprint of the last leaf of the preface and of the last leaf of the book. But the last circumstance does not apply to all copies. In one, whilst the title bears 1606, the colophon bears “ Appresso i Giunti, 1583.” Vol. iii. editions are of 1556, 1565 and 1606.@@4 There is no practical difference between the first two, but that of 1606 has forty-five pages of important new matter, which embraces the Travels of Cesare Fedrici or Federici in India, one of the most valuable narratives of the 16th century, and Three Voyages of the Hollanders and Zealanders to Nova Zembla and Groenland. Vol. iii. also contains (omitting maps and figures inserted in the text, or with type on the reverse) a two-page topographical view of Cuzco, a folding map of Terra Nova and Labrador, a two-page map of Brazil, a two-page map of Guinea, &c., a two-page map of Sumatra, a two-page pictorial plan of the town of Hochclaga in New France, and a general map of the New World in a hemisphere. Brunet’s statement mentions issues of vol. ii. in 1564, and of vol. iii. in 1613; but these seem to have no existence. It would thus appear that a set of Ramusio, to be as complete as possible, should embrace— for vol. i., 1563 or any subsequent edition; for vol. ii., 1583 or 1606; for vol. iii., 1606.
Paolo (Girolamo Gaspare) (1532-1600)@@5 was the only child of Gian Battista, and was born on the 4th of July 1532. Like his father, he maintained a large correspondence with many persons of learning and note. In 1541 .Francesco Contarini, · procurator of St Mark’s, brought from Brussels a MS. of Ville-hardouin’s History of the Conquest of Constantinople, which he presented to the Council of Ten. In 1556 they publicly ordered its translation into Latin, and gave the commission to Paolo Rannusio. His father also seems to have taken much interest in the W’ork, for a MS. vernacular translation by him exists in the Marciana. Paolo’s book was not completed
@@@*    Brunet’s statements on the subject are borrowed, and not quite accurate. The detail in Cigogna seems to be accurate, but it is vague as to the deficiencies of the earlier editions.
@@@*    All of these are in the British Museum.
@@@4 All at the British Museum.
@@@*    This person and his son affected the spelling Rannusio.
till 1573, many years after the father's death, and was in fact a paraphrase enlarged from other sources, thus, according to Cigogna's questionable judgment, “ converting the dry story of Villehardouin into an elegant (fiorita) historical work.” It was not published till 1609, nine years after Paolo's death; nor was it ever really reprinted, though it became the subject of a singular and unintelligible forgery. For Jacopo Gaffarelli, who was sent to Venice to buy books for Richelieu, having apparently procured the “ remainder'' copies, removed the title and preliminary pages and substituted a fresh title with the date 1634, and a dedication to his master the cardinal.@@1
Girolamo Giuseppe (1555-1611), the son of Paolo, was born at Venice in 1555. He entered the public service in 1577, and was employed in connexion with various foreign missions. In 1601 he published at Lyons the French text of Villehardouin; and, besides an Italian translation of this old historian (who seems thus to have furnished occupation for three generations of Ramusios), he left behind him a Storia 0 Cronaca di Casa Ramusia, a folio MS still in St Mark's Library. He died at Padua in 1611, and his posterity did nothing to continue the reputation of the family, official or literary.
Besides the circumstances to be gathered from the Navigationi regarding the Ramusio family, see the Iscrizioni Venete of Emanuele Cigogna. There is also in the British Museum Monografia letta il 14 Marzo 1883 . . . by· Guglielmo Carradori (Rimini, 1883); but hardly^nything has been found in this except the inscription quoted at the beginning of this article.    (H. Y.)
RANADE, MAHADEO GOVIND (1842-1901), Indian lawyer, reformer and author, was born on the 16th of January 1842 at Niphad, in Nasik district, of a Chitpavan Brahman family. When his father was minister at Kolhapur he attended the Anglo-vernacular school in that town, and joined the Elphin-stone Institute in Bombay at the age of fourteen. He was one of the first graduates of the Bombay University, taking the B.A. in 1862 and the LL.B. in 1866. Having entered government service he became presidency magistrate and then fourth judge of the small cause court at Bombay in 1871, first-class sub-judge at Poona in 1873, and judge of the Poona small cause court in 1884, after which, as special judge under the Deccan Agriculturists' Relief Act from 1887, he came into close contact with the difficulties of the agrarian classes. In 1886 he was a member of the finance committee appointed to report on the expenditure, both imperial and provincial, with a view to retrenchment. This service won him the decoration of C.I.E. He became a member of the legislative council of Bombay in 1885, and occupied that position until raised to the high court in 1893. Being an energetic social reformer, he directed his efforts against infant marriages, the shaving of widows, the heavy cost of marriages and other social functions, and the caste restrictions on travelling abroad. He strenuously advocated widow remarriage and female education. He was the founder of the social conference movement, which he supported till his death. In the political sphere he founded the Poona Sarvajanik Sabha, through which be frequently helped the government with sound advice. He was also one of the originators of the Indian National Congress. In Bombay University, where he held the offices of syndic and dean in arts, he displayed much organizing power and great intimacy with the needs of the student class. Himself a thorough Mahratti scholar, he encouraged the translation of standard English works, and tried, with some success, to introduce vernacular languages into the university curriculum. Though reared in the strictest tenets of Hinduism, his deep religious feeling and trained intellect craved something higher and broader than he could find in the traditional forms and orthodox teaching of his race. The same spiritual want being felt by many enlightened Hindus, he joined with his friends, Dr Atmaram Pandurang, Bal Mangesh Wagle and Vaman Abaji Modak, in founding a new sect in Bombay known as the “ Par-thana Samaj.'' This community resembles, in all essential points, the Brahma Samaj of Bengal. Its principles of enlightened theism are based on the ancient Vedas. He published books on Indian economics and on Mahratta history. He died on the 16th of January 1901. He left no children, but his widow continued his work of social and educational reform at Poona.
@@@1 In the British Museum.
See G. A. Mankar, Justice M. G. Ranade (Bombay, 1902).
RANAVALO (Ranavalona) III. (1864-    ), the last queen
of Madagascar, born in 1864, was a great-niece of Radama I. Her name originally was Razàfindrahèty, but on succeeding to the throne of Madagascar after the death of Queen Ranavalo II., on the 14th of July 1883, she assumed the style of Ranavalo III. Although nominally queen, she took no share in the government, which her prime minister, Rainilaiarivony, had controlled since 1864. After placing her on the throne, he married her before the close of the year. Ranavalo became queen just after the French had revived their claim to a protectorate over the island. The Hova government refusing to admit the claim, war broke out, and several sharp engagements took place. The French bombarded the coast towns, but were unable to reach the interior of the island, where the strength of the' Hova lay. In December 1885 a treaty was concluded by which it was agreed that the government of the French Republic should represent Madagascar in all foreign relations, but that in internal matters the Hova government should be independent, as formerly. During the next ten years French influence was quietly extended over the island, in spite of the efforts of Rainilaiarivony, who pursued an anti-French policy, encouraging English and American planters and traders. In 1894 differences on commercial and territorial questions arose between the Hova government and the French, which terminated in war. In 1895 a well-organized expedition was despatched from France to subjugate the island. Many of the inhabitants sympathized with the invaders, and even the Hova themselves were divided. Although Ranavalo endeavoured to arouse a martial spirit in her subjects, the French advanced on the capital without encountering any effective opposition. On the 30th of September they captured Antananarivo. Rainilaiarivony was sent into exile, where he died in the following year; but Ranavalo was suffered to remain as nominal head of the government, under a strict French protectorate. In August 1896, to avoid commercial difficulties with foreign powers, the island was declared a French colony; but no change was made in the internal administration. Later in the year, however, the civil governor was replaced by a military resident, General Gallieni. A formidable insurrection broke out, which Gallieni suppressed, executing or exiling several prominent members of the Hova administration. Finding that the court had been a centre of intrigue, he abolished the sovereignty by proclamation in February 1897, and exiled Ranavalo to Réunion. In March 1899 she was removed to Algiers. Her exile there was relieved by occasional visits to Paris.
RANC, ARTHUR (1831-1908), French politician and writer, was born at Poitiers on the 20th of December 1831, and was educated for the law. Implicated in a plot against Napoleon III. in 1853, he was acquitted, but shortly afterwards was imprisoned for belonging to a secret society; for his share in antiimperialist conspiracies in 1855 he was arrested and deported to Algeria without a trial. The amnesty of 1859 permitted him to return to Paris, where he soon drew the attention of the police to his presence by his violent articles. During the siege of Paris he left the city in a balloon and joined Gambetta, for whom he organized a system of spies through which General Trochu was kept informed of the strength and disposition of the Prussians around Paris. He was elected to the National Assembly in February 1871, but resigned rather than subscribe to the peace. He had been elected mayor of the ninth arrondissement of Paris in the autumn of 1870, and in March was sent by the same district to the Commune, from which he resigned when he found no reconciliation was possible between the mayors and the Commune. In July he became a member of the municipal council of Paris, and in 1873 was returned to the National Assembly for the department of the Rhône, and took his place on the extreme Left. A month after his election the governor of Paris demanded his prosecution for his share in the Commune. The claim being granted by a large majority, he
escaped to Belgium, where he issued a pamphlet defending his action during the Commune. On his failure to appear before the court he was condemned to death, and remained in Belgium until 1879, when he was included in the amnesty proclaimed by Gr6vy. During his exile he continued his active collaboration on La Rspublique franqatse. In 1873 he fought a duel with Paul de Cassagnac, and he acted as second to C16mcnccau more than once. He energetically defended the republic against the Boulangist agitation, and took an equally courageous part in the Dreyfus affair. In the Picquart-Henry duel he was second to Colonel Picquart. He succeeded C16menceau as editor of the Aurore, in which Zola's letter “ J’accuse ” had appeared, and was president of the Association of Republican Journalists. In 1903 he became senator for Corsica, and died on the 10th of August 1908.
In addition to his purely political writings, Arthur Ranc published political novels of the Second Empire, Sous Vempire (1872) and Le roman d'une conspiration (1868).
RANCfi, ARMAND JEAN LE BOUTHILLIER DE (1626-1700), founder of the Trappist Cistercians. He was born in Paris of a noble and influential family of Normandy; hence, being destined to the ecclesiastical state, he was when ten years old commendatory abbot of La Trappe and two other abbeys, prior of two priories, and canon of N6tre Dame, Paris. At twelve he published a translation of Anacreon. He went through his course of theological studies with great distinction, defeating Bossuet at the Baccalaureat in theology. He was ordained in 1651, and embarked on the ambitious and worldly career of a court abb£ in the days of Louis XIV. But after a few years he underwent a complete change of life, and in 1662 he retired to his abbey of La Trappe, of which he became regular abbot in 1664 and introduced an austere reform (see Trappists). The best known episode of his subsequent life was the “ Contestation ” with Mabillon on the lawfulness of monks devoting themselves to study, which De Ranc6 denied. He resigned his abbacy in 1695, owing to declining health, and died in 1700.
The best of the early lives is that of P. le Nain, his sub-prior (1715); the most recent is by M. Serrant, L'AbM de Ranci el Bossuet (1003). A sufficient sketch is given by Helyot^Histoire des ordres resigteux (1718), vi. c. 1. On the “ Contestation ” on Monastic Studies, see Maitland, Dark Agesf § x.    (E. C. B.)
RANCH, a term in current usage among the English-speaking peoples for a large farm, particularly one for cattle or horse-breeding. The word came into use in this application in the western states of North America, and was an adaptation of the Spanish-American rancho, herdsmen's huts; in Spanish a gathering of people having their meals in common, a mess.
RANCHI, a town and district of British India, in the Chota Nagpur division of Bengal. The town, which is situated on the Chota Nagpur plateau, about 2100 ft. above sea-level, is the headquarters of both the division and the district. Pop. (1901) 25,970. It is an important centre of local trade and the headquarters of the German Lutheran mission. There are a high school and an industrial school, and it is proposed to found here a residential college for all Bengal. The cantonments, formerly called Doranda, accommodate a detachment of native infantry.
The District op Ranchi, formerly called Lohardaga after the town which was its headquarters, has an area of 7128 sq. m. It consists of two tablelands, of which the higher rises to about 2000 ft. The whole area is broken by hills and undulations, which are terraced for rice. The steep slopes are covered with a dense forest, where wild animals still abound, but no profit is derived from the timber. The principal rivers are the Subanarekhi and the North and South Koel. In 190Γ the population was 1,187,925, showing an increase of 5-2% in the decade. Christians form 10% of the total. The district was affected by the famine of 1896-1897, and still more severely by that of 1900. Rice is everywhere the staple crop, with some millets and pulses. Tea cultivation has been introduced, but does not flourish. The only industry on a large scale is the manufacture of shellac. Myrobalans are also exported. Iron and soapstone arc worked in small quantities. Hopes of profitable gold-mining in the quartz veins of the schist formation have proved abortive. There is no railway in the district, though surveys have been made to connect with the Bengal-Nagpur line.
See F. B. Bradley-Birt, Chota Nagpur (1903).
RAND, a Dutch word meaning border, edge, used in South Africa to designate a low rounded range of hills; specifically it is an abbreviated form of Witwatersrand, an elevated ridge in the southern Transvaal, forming the water-parting between the basins of the Orange and Limpopo. The Rand is famous for its gold-bearing reefs (see Gold), and the word is often used as a synonym for the mining industry carried on over a great part of its area, or for Johannesburg (?.r.), the city which that industry created.
RANDALL, SAMUEL JACKSON (1828-1890), American politician, was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on the 10th of October 1828. He was educated in the public schools and in the University Academy, Philadelphia. In 1858-1859 he was a Democratic member of the state Senate. During the Civil War he served as a private in the Union army for ninety days in 1861, and two years later took part in the Gettysburg campaign as a volunteer. From 1863 until his death he was a Democratic representative in Congress. During the session of 1874-1875 he first gained a national reputation by the masterful manner in which he prevented the Republican majority from passing the Force Bill or Federal Election law. Under his leadership discipline and party harmony were established among the Democrats for the first time after the Civil War. He was speaker of the House from December 1876 to March 1881, during a period marked by rancorous debates concerning the disputed Hayes-Tilden presidential election. With the disappearance of the Reconstruction questions and the emergence of the tariff issue, however, his influence began to wane. As the leader of the Protectionist wing of the party he was superseded by the tariff reform advocates, such as John G. Carlisle, William R. Morrison, and Roger Q. Mills, Carlisle defeating him for the speakership in 1883. He died in Washington, D.C., on the 13th of April 1890.
RANDAN, a name for a boat rowed by three persons, stroke and bow using a single oar each and the central person a pair of sculls. The word is of unknown origin, and can hardly be connected with a slang term for a row or spree, which is found as early as the beginning of the 18th century and is generally taken as a variation of “ random,” haphazard.
RANDAZZO, a town of Sicily, in the province of Catania, at the N. foot of Mount Etna, 43 m. N. by W. of Catania by rail, and 26 m. direct. Pop. (1901) 11,798. It has considerable remains of architecture of the 13th and 14th centuries, including three Norman churches.and some interesting palaces. The former contain some fine sculptures and goldsmith's work (Mauceri in JJArte, 1906, 185). It is the nearest town to the summit of Etna (9 m.), and is one of the points from which the ascent may be made.
RANDERS, a town of Denmark, capital of the amt (county) of its name in Jutland, on the Gudenaa at the point where it begins to widen into Randers Fjord, an inlet of the Cattegat. Pop. (1901) 20,057. The town is 15 m. from the open Cattegat and the harbour has 15 ft. depth on the bar. The chief exports are butter and eggs; the chief imports sugar, petroleum, coal and iron. Two railways run north to Aalborg, continuing the main East Jutland line from the south, and an eastward branch serves Grenaa and Aebeltoft on the coast. Though a place of considerable antiquity—being mentioned in 1086 as the meeting-place of insurgents against Knud, the saint —Randers has few remains of old buildings and bears the stamp of a compact, modern manufacturing town that owes its importance to its distilleries, manufactories of gloves, railway carriages, &c. St Marten's church dates from the 14th century, but was frequently altered and enlarged down to 1870. It has good woodwork of the 17th century. The high school is housed
in a medieval monastery, which was restored in 1894-97. There is a statue to Steen S. Blicher (1782-1848), the national poet and novelist of Jutland.
Randers is best known in history as the scene of the assassination of Count Gerhard by Niels Ebbeson in 1340. In the middle ages it had six churches and four monastic establishments, the oldest a Benedictine nunnery (1170). The Grey Friars’ building was turned into a castle (Dronningborg) after the Reformation; its church was burned down in 1698.
RANDOLPH, EDMUND [JENNINGS] (1753-1813), American statesman, was bom on the 10th of August 1753, at Tazewell Hall, Williamsburg, Virginia, the family seat of his grandfather, Sir John Randolph (1693-1737), and his father, John Randolph (1727-84), who (like his uncle Peyton Randolph) were king’s attorneys for Virginia. Edmund graduated at the College of William and Mary, and studied law with his father, who felt bound by his oath to the king and went to England in 1775. In August-October 1775 Edmund was aide-de-camp to General Washington. In 1776 he was a member of the Virginia Convention, and was on its committee to draft a constitution. In the same year he became the first attorney-general of the state (serving until 1786). He served in the Continental Congress in 1779 and again in 1780-82. He had a large private practice, including much legal business for General Washington. In 1786 he was a delegate to the “ Annapolis convention,” and in 1787-88 was governor of Virginia. He was a delegate to the Constitutional Convention of 1787, and on the 29th of May presented the “ Virginia plan” (sometimes called the “ Randolph plan” ),1  In the Convention Randolph advocated a strongly centralized government, the prohibition of the importation of slaves, and a plural executive, suggesting that there should be three executives from different parts of the country, and refused to sign the constitution because too much power over commerce was granted to a mere majority in Congress, and because no provision was made for a second convention to act after the present instrument had been referred to the states. In October 1787 he published an attack on the Constitution; but in the Virginia convention he urged its ratification, arguing that it was too late to attempt to amend it without endangering the Union, and thinking that Virginia’s assent would he that of the necessary ninth state. In 1788 he refused re-election as governor, and entered the House of Delegates to work on the revision and codification of the state laws (published in 1794). In September 1789 he was appointed by President Washington first attorney-general of the United States. He worked for a revision of Ellsworth’s judiciary act of 1789, and especially to relieve justices of the supreme court
The plan was not drafted by Randolph, but he presented it because he was governor. It called for a legislature of two branches, one chosen by the people and based on free population (or on wealth) and the other chosen by the first out of candidates nominated by the state legislatures; a majority vote only .was required in each house; and Congress was to have a negative on such state legislation as seemed to the Congress to contravene the articles of the Union. There was to be, under this plan, an executive chosen by the national legislature, to be ineligible for a second term, to have general authority to execute the national laws and to have the executive rights vested in Congress by the Confederation; and the executive with a convenient number of the national judiciary was to compose a Council of Revision, with a veto power on acts of the national legislature and on the national legislature’s vetoes of acts of state legislatures—but the national legislature might pass bills (or vetoes of state legislation) over the action of the Council of Revision. The plan provided for a Federal judiciary, the judges to be appointed by the national legislature, to hold office during good behaviour, and to have jurisdiction over cases in admiralty and cases in which foreigners or citizens of different states were parties. The Virginia plan was opposed by the smaller states, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland, which demanded equal representation in the legislature. It was too radically different from the Articles of Confederation. A draft of a constitution in Randolph’s handwriting, discovered in 1887, seems to have been the report (6th August) of a Committee of Detail of five members (John Rutledge, Edmund Randolph, Nathaniel Gorham, Oliver Ellsworth and James Wilson). It is reproduced in facsimile in W. M. Meigs’s The Growth of the Constitution (Philadelphia, 1900). Conway, who discovered it, exaggerated its importance and thought it had been drawn by Randolph alone ana before the Convention.
of the duties of circuit judges, and advocated a Federal code^ in 1791 he considered Hamilton’s scheme for a national bank unconstitutional; and in 1792-93, in the case Chisolm v. Georgia before the supreme court, argued that a state might be sued by a citizen of another state. On the 2nd of January 1794 he succeeded Thomas Jefferson as secretary of state. In 1795 he wrote thirteen letters (signed “ Germanicus” ) defending the President in his attack on the American Jacobin or democratic societies. He was the only cabinet member who opposed the ratification of the Jay treaty (his letters to the President on the subject are reprinted in The American Historical Review, vol. xii. pp. 587-599), and before it was ratified the delicate task of keeping up friendly diplomatic relations with France fell to him. Home despatches of the French minister, Joseph Fauchet, intercepted by a British man-of-war and sent to the British minister to the United States, accused Randolph of asking for money from France to influence the administration against Great Britain. Although this charge was demonstrably false, Randolph when confronted with it immediately resigned, and subsequently secured a retractation from Fauchet; he published A Vindication of Mr Randolph’s Resignation (1795) and Political Truth, or Animadversions on the Past and Present State of Public Affairs (1796). He was held personally responsible for the loss of a large sum of money during his administration of the state department, and after years of litigation was judged hy an arbitrator to be indebted to the government for more than $49,000, which he paid at great sacrifice to himself. He removed to Richmond in 1803, and during his last years was a leader of the Virginia bar; in 1807 he was one of Aaron Burr’s counsel. ' He died at Carter Hall, Millwood, Clarke county, Virginia, on the 12th of September 1813.
Moncure D. Conway, in his Omitted Chapters of History disclosed in the Life and Papers of Edmund Randolph (New York, 1888; 2nd ed., 1889), greatly exaggerates Randolph’s work in the Constitutional Convention; the commoner view underrates him and makes him a " hair-splitter,” and a man of no decision of character.
RANDOLPH, JOHN (1773-1833), of Roanoke, American statesman. He was a member of an influential and wealthy Virginian family, and was the third and youngest son of John Randolph of Cawsons, Chesterfield county, where he was born on the 2nd of June 1773. He was a descendant of John Rolfe and his wife Pocahontas. His father having died in 1775, his early years were passed under the care of his mother and his stepfather, Mr St George Tucker, from whom, however, he eventually became estranged, as he did from almost every one with whom he was intimately associated. He attended a school at Williamsburg, Virginia, and for a short time studied at Princeton and at Columbia; but, although well read in modern works bearing on politics and philosophy, his own statement, u I am an ignorant man, sir,” was in other respects not inaccurate. Both his religious and his political views were radical and extreme. At an early period he imbibed deistical opinions, which he promulgated with eagerness. He was also, though a mere boy when the new Federal government was organized in 1789, strongly opposed to the new Constitution of the United States. In order to assist in asserting the right of resistance to national laws, and to withstand the “ encroachments of the administration upon the indisputable rights ” of Virginia, he was in 1799 elected as a Republican to the national House of Representatives, of which he was a member, with the exception of two terms (1813-15 and 1817-19), until 1825, and again in 1827-29. After the accession of Jefferson to the presidency in 1801, Randolph was appointed chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, and as such was naturally the leader of the Republican majority in the House. He took an active part in agitating for the reform of the judiciary, and in 1804 moved the impeachment of Judge Samuel Chase (#.:>.), acting as the leader of prosecution in the trial before the Senate. Though an avowed Republican, he was far from being subservient to his party, and for several years after 1805 led a small faction, called “ Quids,” which sharply criticized Jefferson and attempted to prevent the selection of Madison as the
presidential candidate of his party. In March 1807 he lost the chairmanship of the Ways and Means Committee. Possessing considerable wit, great readiness, and a showy if somewhat bombastic eloquence, he would undoubtedly have risen to high influence but for his strong vein of eccentricity and his bitter and ungovernable temper. The championship of state's rights was carried by him to an extreme utterly quixotic, inasmuch as he not only asserted the constitutional right of Virginia to interpose her protest against the usurpation of power at Washington, but claimed that the protest should be supported by force. From December 1825 to March 1827 he served in the United States Senate, and in April 1826 he was forced to fight a duel with Henry Clay, on account of his violent abuse of that statesman in the course of a debate. In 1830 he was sent by President Jackson on a special mission to Russia, but remained in St Petersburg only ten days, then spent almost a year in England, and on his return in October 1831 drew $21,407 from the United States Treasury for his services. He died of consumption at Philadelphia on the 24th of June 1833. Though his political life was full of inconsistencies—he was even capable of advocating the passage of a bill on one day and of opposing the passage of the same bill on the next—he generally adhered to the principles enunciated by the Republican party in its earliest years, and throughout his later career, in numerous speeches, he laboured to bring about the identification of slavery with the theory of states' rights. In this he was the natural precursor of Calhoun. His last will was disputed in the law courts, and the jury returned a verdict that in the later years of his life he was not of sane mind. He was always in theory opposed to slavery, and by the will which was accepted by the courts, freed his own slaves.
The best biography is that by Henry Adams, John Randolph (Boston, 1882), in the “ American Statesmen Series." There is also a biography, which, however, contains many inaccuracies, by Hugh A. Garland (2 vols., New York, 1851).
RANDOLPH, PEYTON (1721-1775), American politician, was bom at Tazewell Hall, Williamsburg, Virginia, in 1721, a son of Sir John Randolph (1693-1737), the king's attorney for Virginia. He graduated at the College of William and Mary, studied law at the Inner Temple, London, and in 1748 was appointed the king's attorney for Virginia.@@1 Randolph wrote the address of remonstrance to the king in behalf of the Burgesses against the suggested stamp duties in 1764. His policy was conservative and moderate, and in May 1765 he opposed Patrick Henry's radical “ Stamp Act Resolutions." In 1766 he resigned as king’s attorney and was succeeded by his brother John (1727-1784). In 1769 he acted as moderator of the privately convened assembly which entered into the nonimportation agreement, and in May 1773 he became chairman of the first Virginia intercolonial committee of correspondence. He presided over the provincial convention of August 1774, and was a member of the First Continental Congress, of which he was president from the 5th of September to the 22nd of October 1774. He was re-elected to Congress in March 1775, and on the 10th of May was again chosen to preside, but on the 24th he left to attend a meeting at Williamsburg of the Virginia Burgesses. He then returned to Congress, of which John Hancock had meanwhile been made president. Randolph died of apoplexy in Philadelphia on the 22nd of October 1775. He was provincial grand-master of the Masons of Virginia, and was an intimate friend of Washington.
RANDOLPH, THOMAS (1523-1590), English diplomatist, son of Avery Randolph, a Kentish gentleman, was educated at Christ Church, Oxford, and in 1549 became principal of Pembroke College, Oxford, then known as Broadgates Hall. During
@@@1 In 1754 the Burgesses sent him to London to argue against the governor's demand for a fee of one pistole on every land patent; his plea was successful, but the governor superseded him with George Wythe, who resigned in Randolph’s favour upon his return from England. The Burgesses voted Randolph £2500 with the grant of £20,000 to Governor Dinwiddie for Indian warfare; the governor would not approve this appropriation, however, until Randolph apologized for leaving his office without the governor's permission.
the reign of Mary, Randolph, who was a -zealous Protestant, sought refuge in Paris, where he cultivated the society of scholars. Returning to England after the accession of Elizabeth, he was soon employed as a confidential diplomatic agent of the English queen in Scotland. Here he succeeded in gaining the confidence of the Protestant party, with whom he became a person of great influence. Randolph's despatches from Scotland between 1560 and 1585 supply important materials for the history of the political intrigues of that period. Randolph, who had hitherto remained ostensibly on terms of friendship with Mary Queen of Scots, exerted his influence on instructions from Elizabeth to prevent Mary's marriage with Darnley; but in 1566 he was driven from Scotland on the charge of having fomented Murray's rebellion, and he then obtained government employment of secondary importance in England. In 1568 he undertook a mission to Russia which resulted in the concession by Ivan the Terrible of certain privileges to English merchants; and in 1570 he returned to Scotland, where, after the murder of the regent Murray in January of that year, he “ succeeded," says Andrew Lang, “ in making civil war inevitable; he himself was in high spirits, as always when mischief was in hand.” After carrying through certain diplomatic business in France in 1573 and 1576, Randolph returned in January 1581 to Scotland, where the earl of Morton, the regent, had been arrested a few days previously. Randolph, acting on Elizabeth's instructions, intrigued with Angus and the Douglases in favour of a plot to seize the person of the young King James, and to save Morton by laying violent hands on the earl of Lennox. Douglas of Whittingham, who was employed in the intrigue, on being arrested made revelations which imperilled Randolph, and the latter prudently withdrew to Berwick before the execution of Morton in June 3581. In 1585, when he next visited Scotland, he was more successful, being instrumental in arranging a treaty between England and Scotland. For the next four years he was chancellor of the exchequer in England, and he died in London in June 1590. Randolph married, in 1571, Anne, daughter of Thomas Walsingham. He was a personal friend of George Buchanan, in whose History of Scotland he took a lively interest, and he has been credited, though on doubtful evidence, with the authorship of a Life of the historian in Latin.
See J. A. Froude, History of England (12 vols., London, 1881); Andrew Lang, History of Scotland, vol. ii. (4 vols., London, 1902-7); Calendar of State Papers relating to Scotland (1509-1603), edited by M. J. Thorpe (2 vols.); Calendar of State Papers, Foreign Series of the Reign of Elizabeth; Anthony ά Wood, Athenae Oxonienses and Fasti, edited by P. Bliss (4 vols., London, 1813-20).
RANDOLPH, THOMAS (1605-1635), English poet and dramatist, was born near Daventry in Northamptonshire, and was baptized on the 15th of June 1605. He was educated at Westminster and at Trinity College, Cambridge. He took his B.A. degree in 1628, proceeded M.A. in 1632 and became a major fellow of his college in the same year. He soon gave promise as a writer of comedy. Ben Jonson, not an easily satisfied critic, adopted him as one of his “ sons." He addressed three poems to Jonson, one on the occasion of his formal “ adoption," another on the failure of The New Inn, and the third an eclogue, describing his own studies at Cambridge. He lived with his father at Little Houghton in Northamptonshire for some time, and afterwards with William Stafford of Blatherwick, at whose house he died before completing his thirtieth year. He was buried in Blatherwick church on the 17th of March 1634-35, and his epitaph was written by Peter Hausted, the author of The Rival Friends.
Randolph's reputation as a wit is attested by the verses addressed to him by his contemporaries and by the stories attached to his name. His earliest printed work is Aristippus, Or, The J (mall Philosopher. Presented in a private shew, To which is added, The Conceited Pedlar (1630). It is a gay interlude burlesquing a lecture in philosophy, the whole piece being an argument to support the claims of sack against small beer. The Conceited Pedlar is an amusing monologue delivered by the pedlar, who defines himself as an “ indivtduum vogutn,
or the primum mobile of tradesmen, a walking-burse or movable exchange, a Socratical citizen of the vast universe, or a peri-patetical journeyman, that, like another Atlas, carries his heavenly shop on’s shoulders.” He then proceeds to display his wares with a running satirical comment. The Jealous Lovers was presented by the stu dents of Trinity College, Cambridge, before the king and queen in 1632. The Muse’s Looking-Glass is hardly a drama. Roscius presents the extremes of virtue and vice in pairs, and last of all the “ golden mediocrity ” who announces herself as the mother of all the virtues. Amyntas, or The Impossible Dowry, a pastoral printed in 1638, with a number of miscellaneous Latin and -English poems, completes the fist of Randolph’s authenticated work. Hey for Honesty, down with Knavery, a comedy, is doubtfully assigned to him.
His works were edited by W. C. Hazlitt in 1875.
RANDOM (older forms randon, randoun; from the French, cf. randir, to run quickly, impetuously; generally taken to be of Teutonic origin and connected with Ger. Rand, edge, brim, the idea being possibly of a brimming river), an adjective originally meaning impetuous, hasty, hence done without purpose or aim, haphazard. The term “ random work ” is used, in architecture, by the rag-stone masons, for stones fitted together at random without any attempt at laying them in courses. “ Random coursed work ” is a like term applied to work coursed in horizontal beds,
but the stones are of varying height, and fitted _
to one another (see Masonry).
RANELAGH, formerly a popular resort by the Thames in Chelsea, London, England. About 1690 the land lying east of Chelsea Hospital, and bordering the river about the point where Chelsea Bridge .now stands, was acquired by Richard, Viscount Ranelagh, later earl of Ranelagh (d. 1711). He built a mansion and laid out fine gardens, which, in 1742, were thrown open as a proprietary place of entertainment. A building called the Rotunda was erected for concerts, and the gardens quickly became a favourite resort of fashionable society. Balls and masquerades, exhibitions of fireworks, regattas and many other forms of amusement were provided; but by the close of the iSth century Ranelagh was ceasing to attract the public, and in 1803 the Rotunda w-as closed. The buildings were removed, and the grounds became the property of Chelsea Hospital. They are still included in the pleasant gardens belonging to that foundation, but no traces of the popular Ranelagh are preserved. There is, however, a fashionable modern club of the same name.
See Warwick Wroth, London Pleasure Gardens of the Eighteenth Century (London, 1896).
RANGE-FINDER, Telemeter or Position-Finder (Fr. télémètre; Ger. Distanzmesser; It. Telemetro; Russ. Dalnomier; Span. Telêmetro; in the United States the word telemeter is sometimes applied to the stadia used in connexion with the tacheometer), an instrument, of which many varieties have been invented, for assisting the gunner and the infantry soldier in determining the distance or “range”@@1 to their objective. Nearly all range-finders may be described as instruments which automatically solve a triangle. Usually it is a right-angled triangle, the length of the base of which is known, and one of the sides is the range it is desired to find. They are, in fact, goniometers, but the angle which they measure, whether it may be at the end of the measured base, or that subtended by it, is usually expressed as a function of the angle in terms of the measured base. Thus the range is recorded directly in metres or yards without calculation. It is proposed here
to describe principally the range-finding instruments in the British services (1) as used in the fleet; (2) by the army in the field; (3) in harbour defence; and (4) to refer briefly to· range-finders, not under these heads, of English and foreign design.
1. The necessity for a range-finder afloat caused the British' Admiralty in 1891 to issue an advertisement in the press inviting inventors to produce an instrument which would, amongst other conditions, record ranges with an accuracy of within 3% at 3000 yds. The resulting competition was declared in favour of a range-finder which is the joint invention of Professor Barr of the Glasgow University and Professor Stroud of the Yorkshire College.
The naval range-finder consists of a tube @@* which contains two telescopes. It is carried on a frame by bearings, in which the tube is free to revolve about its longer axis. To the frame is attached a weight capable of movement within a tank.
This weight balances the range-finder and frame upon knife-edges. By means of the handle on the left of the instrument and an altitude worm beneath it, the motion of the tube is governed, and· the line of sight is directed on the objective. By partially filling the tank with water, the swinging of the weight in a seaway can be checked. The frame is supported on a pedestal and can rotate in azimuth upon it (fig. 1).
A rubber guard is fitted round the eye-pieces. Its functions are to guide the eyes of the observer into the correct position, and to protect them from side light and the distressing effect of wind. It also guards the forehead against the jar occasioned by firing heavy-guns. The upper portion of the field presented to the left eye is used as a finder, the lower portion is occupied by the scale upon which the ranges are engraved. The finder is a low-power telescope of large field, to the centre of which the objective is brought. When the telescope is thus correctly aligned, the objective will be seen with the right eye largely magnified, but as two^ partial images separated by a thin black horizontal line. When coincidence of the images is effected by means of the working head, the range can be
@@@1 The word “ range,” from O.Fr. range, from ranger, to place in a row or rank {rang being a variant of ranc, whence Eng. “ rank ”), meant ^properly a row or line of objects, as still in “ mountain-range ”; the secondary meanings of an area or space of ground, sphere of action, compass, extent, distance, are derived from the verb “ to range,” to stretch out in a line, to extend, to move about over a given area.
@@@2 The length of tube varies from 3 ft. in the smaller to 9 ft. in the larger instruments
read off against a pointer from the scale seen with the left eve. For night use, means are provided for illuminating the scale. The range to lights may be ascertained by the use of the astigmatizer, an optical device by which a point of light is drawn out into a vertical streak. A beam of light from the objective falls on each reflector (fig. 2), and passing through the object-glasses, each is received by an arrangement of prisms about the centre of the tube, and reflected through the right eye-piece. Two partial images are thus seen. The images could be united by the rotation of one of the reflectors, but owing to the small base used the necessary movement would be so extremely small that it would be practically impossible to measure it. The difficulty has been surmounted by utilizing fixed reflectors and effecting coincidence by means of a prism of small angle. The deflecting prism is situated in the line of the beam of light from the reflector at the right-hand end of the tube. Its multiplying action is of great delicacy. The angle available for subdivision, to measure ranges between infinity and 250 yds., is only one-third of a degree. In a travel of 6 in. the prism renders accurate measurements possible within the required limits. To bring images of distant objectives into coincidence, the prism must be moved towards the eye-piece, and for near objectives in the opposite direction. The range scale is attached to the prism. A consequent advantage is^ that the accuracy of the instrument is not affected by back lash arising from wear, or irregularity in the actuating mechanism. When once installed, the instrument is always ready for use. Should adjustment be required it is readily and easily applied. It is not within the sphere of this article to enter into the detail of the adjusting mechanism. For further particulars the reader is referred to the Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, 30tly January 1896. The working of the range-finder is so simple that its use is quickly learnt by any man who can read, and with little instruction and practice he can 2 * * * * * * * * 11 take a range ” in 8 to 12 seconds. Besides its principal purpose, in connexion with gunnery, there are minor uses in navigation and nautical surveying to which the range-finder can be applied.
With the high speeds of modern war-vessels, guns and their objective approach each other so quickly that unless ranges can be communicated from the instrument to the guns with rapidity and accuracy the range-finder is deprived of much of its value. In connexion with the naval range-finder an apparatus is provided, whicly though not part of the range-finder is sufficiently important to claim passing notice. The apparatus consists of a transmitting and a receiving instrument of clockwork mechanism electrically controlled. In appearance they resemble the ordinary engine-room telegraph, on the dials of which ranges take the place of orders. The transmitter can communicate with a number of receiving instruments, disposed as required in different parts of the ship.
Before' the introduction of the Marindin range-finder described below, the British army in the field used the “ mekometer.” The instruments used by the cavalry and infantry are smaller and lighter than those of the artillery pattern, but the principle involved is identical.
are used simultaneously at the ends of a base of fixed^ length. One sextant, called the right-angle instrument, is fitted with index and measures a right angle. In the other sextant, called the reading instrument, a graduated drum takes the place of the usual index arm and scale. The drum is graduated spirally with a scale of ranges. Both reading and right-angle instruments are fitted with a vane of gun metal with a white strip down the centre to facilitate observations. Telescopes of low power can be fitted to the instruments, and two cords of 50 (or 25$) yds. are provided with which to measure the base.
Two observers attach the ends of the cord of fixed length (usually 50 yds.) to their instruments and separate until it is taut. The observer with the right-angle instrument moves into such a position that coincidence of image will be given between the objective and the vane of the instrument at the other end of the base, t.e. he makes ABC a right angle (fig. 3).
The mekometer is open to the objection which is common to all range-finders requiring more than one observer. There is always a danger that observers may cause coincidence on different objectives or on different parts of the same objective, and thus inaccuracy in the recorded range must result. The instruments are expected to give an accuracy of· less than 2 % at 2000 yds. For ranges over that distance, i.e. for usual artillery ranges, it is desirable to use a double base (100 yds. in length), in which case the range registered on the drum must be doubled. This operation, although slight, is a distinct disadvantage, since it adds to the timeof taking a range and is a possible source of error. Fpr field artilleiy, however, a range-finder is only an auxiliary adjunct. The true range can be found by a process of trial and error (see Artillery) in as short a time as the mekometer observers take to report it. ^ It must further be remembered that as shrapnel is the principal projectile of field artillery, not only the correct elevation but also the true length of time/use has to be found. This the range-finder cannot do. Hence it is *that the range-finder for field artillery, although a valuable auxiliary, is not of the same importance as in purely defensive positions, such as batteries for harbour defence, and land forts.
The mekometer is practically a box sextant. Two instruments
horizon glasses permanently inclined at 45® It consequently
When the right angle is established, the observer at C turns the graduated drum of the reading instrument until the image of the vane of the ‘right angle instrument coincides with the direction of the objective. The range AC is then read on the drum. The ranges on the drum are measures of the angle BAC when the base BC is 50 yds.
The Marindin range-finder was from 1908 gradually introduced in the infantry to replace the mekometer. It was the invention of Captain A. H. Marindin, of the Black Watch (Royal Highlanders).
The principle of the instrument is that of coincidence, as in the Gautier Christie, Le Cyre, Souchier, and Barr and Stroud. * But it differs from the last mentioned in that the right prism is made movable, and this movement (necessarily extremely small) is a function of the recorded range.
The steel tube, forming the basepf the instrument, which carries the prisms,is supported inside an aluminium outer tube in such a way that no direct shock is communicated to it. The appearance of the outside of the instrument, together with the names of the various parts, is shown in fig. 4.
The instrument can be used in two main positions, viz. horizontally.
for ranging on upright objects, or vertically, for ranging on horizontal targets.
For instance, in the diagram (fig. 5) of a road running uphill, the instrument could be held in any of the three positions indicated, and would give good ranges, but^ probably the best range would be obtained if held as at c. If it is required to use the instrument
at night, the two caps^ of the night-glasses should be opened. On looking through the instrument, any lamp or other light will appear like a fine, bright line, and the range can be taken in the ordinary way.
This range-finder possesses the superlative advantage of the one-man instrument, and it is claimed for it that it can range on horizontal objects, such as the crest of a hill, which has no detail suitable for use with a mekometer, and that it can be adjusted on service with no greater difficulty than the setting of a watch.
3. For harbour defence, owing to the long range of naval guns, and the fast targets which war-vessels present, an accurate range-finder is of first importance. This is largely the case because “ ranging ” cannot be resorted to in the same manner as in the field, where the targets are comparatively motionless and the effective ranges are less. Successful artillery practice therefore depends, in a great measure, upon the range-finder.
The instrument used in harbour forts is known as the depression range-finder. As its name suggests, it solves a triangle in the vertical plane, of which the base is the height of the instrument above sea-level. Its appearance resembles some forms of theodolite (fig. 6). A framework, capable of rotating in azimuth on a vertical pivot, is supported on a plate carried by levelling screws, L, L, L. To the framework are pivoted two arms DC and FE, at C and E respectively. The arm EF is supported at: F by a vertical screw H ending in a drum, upon which, in a spiral scale, the ranges are graduated. Motion in altitude is thus given to the telescope. The arm CD is supported by a slider G. This slider is set by a rack and pinion to the height above sea-level (represented on a scale of feet on EF) at which the instrument may be used. A telescope ABis suitably fitted in jaws at the top of the frame. There are spirit-levels at M and Q for adjusting purposes. The telescope is provided with cross wires which can be illuminated^ for night use. An azimuth circle X and pointer Y enable the direction of any vessel to be indicated, the range of which it is desired^ to know. The instrument rests on a base plate R, to which it is locked by the top-plate O. The observer directs the cross wires of the telescope upon the water-line of the objective, by means of the drum I and the azimuth handle P, the top of which just appears in the diagram. The reader watches the arrow on the drum and calls out the ranges as the figures arrive beneath it. The ranges are communicated to the officers at the guns by various devices, which differ according to local requirements.
Position-Finder.—The range-finding instrument known in the British service as the Position-Finder (invented by Colonel Watkin, C.B., R.A.) is practically a large depression rangefinder. It posesses, however, certain additional appliances which render it capable of automatically recording, upon an oriented chart, the position or course of a vessel. And further, by electrical means it automatically records to a distant battery the range and bearing of the desired objective. The position-finder can therefore, from a concealed and safe position, automatically control the fire of a group of guns, whose detachments need not necessarily see the target engaged. As the observer follows the objective with the telescope of the instrument the range and bearing is simultaneously shown in the battery on convenient dials. The distance and direction thus communicated are the range and bearing from the guns, not as measured from the range-finder. The correction due to the displacement between gun and instrument is automatic. In localities where the height does not admit of using the depression system, an alternative arrangement is provided, known as the Horizontal Position-Finder. It is open to the objections common to two-man range-finders, and is only employed where necessity compels its use. Briefly, there are two observing stations at either end of a measured and electrically connected base. One is known as the transmitting and the other the receiving station; the latter contains the principal instrument, which usually is capable of independent use for medium and short ranges as a depression instrument.
It will be seen that the difference between the two systems is, that the first described solves the range triangle in the vertical, and the latter in the horizontal plane. There have been various methods
Croposed for using the position-finder. The best results are obtained y placing range and bearing dials on the gun-mounting in a position where they can be easily seen by the men elevating and training the gun. The gun is kept directed upon the objective and fired as quickly as it can be loaded. A position-finder can be used for firing mines in a mine field, and instruments are issued to the Royal Navy for this purpose.
In the United States of America the term “ position-finder ” is applied to a range-finder which gives direction as well as distance. This is substantially correct, but custom, in the British service, confines the use of the expression as defined above.
4. Various appliances, not strictly range-finders, are sometimes used to assist in estimating distance. The following examples are not without interest:—
Acoustic telemeters, depending upon the velocity of sound, are obviously unsuited to the requirements of modern warfare. The names of Thouvenin, Rédier and Le Boulengé are connected with such instruments—that of the last-named is perhaps the most convenient. It consists of a graduated glass tube filled with liquid, of suitable density, and containing a small metal traveller. At the flash of discharge of a gun or rifle the instrument is brought to a vertical position, and the traveller starts from zero; at the detonation, it is turned^ to a horizontal position and the traveller stops at the point on the scale indicating the range.
On this principle is the rough method of ascertaining the distance, in yards, of a tnunderstorm, viz. multiply the number of seconds elapsing between the perception of the lightning and that of the thunder by the number of days in the year.
Optical or perspective telemeters determine the distance to any point by observing the size of some object of known dimensions, as seen in a graduated telescope. Porro’s telemeter, Elliott’s telescope and Nordenfelt’s macrometer illustrate the principle. The chief defect of the system is that the objects most conveniently observ ed—men and horses—vary considerably in size, so that the assumption of a constant dimension may be productive of error.
On the continent of Europe the perspective telemeter for military purposes has attracted more attention than in England. The French in their precise terminology call such an instrument “ Stadia militaire,” a term which at once distinguishes it from a “ télémètre,” and describes its nature. In rapid military sketching, in locating positions upon maps, &c., perspective telemeters find a use. The telescopes issued to field batteries and to coast forts in France are provided with a scale in the field of view. By comparing this scale with known heights, such as the average height of a man on foot, or the known height of funnels, masts, turrets, &c., of a war-vessel, distance can be estimated with fair accuracy.
The “ jumelle Souchier,” which can be used as an ordinary field-glass, is constructed on the stadia principle. By its means ranges can be estimated within an accuracy of 10%. A stand or rest, however, is necessary for good results.
General Percin of the French army has shown, in an interesting pamphlet, that a piece of wood or card cut to a known fraction of the distance between the eye and the end of the thumb, when the arm is fully extended, can be used to estimate distances. Thus it is easy to find a penny in good condition of which the thickness is ifatth part of the arm-length in a man of average height. Provided with such a coin an observer finds its rim to exactly cover a distant man 6 ft. (or 2 yds. high). The range therefore is 400X2 =800 yds. Similarly, if the man’s height appeared to be but half the thickness of the coin the range would be 4X400 = 1600 yds. With a little practice the eye estimates the proportion between the object of
known height and the stadia used.^ General Percin gives many useful applications of this simple device.
Various range-finders have been produced in countries outside the British Isles which, as they are the outcome of similar necessity and required for identical purposes, naturally resemble, more or less, the instruments already described.
Field artillery officers of all countries usually claim their gun to be their best range-finder. This may be another way of saying that a durable, one-man range-finder, capable of instantaneously finding modern artillery ranges with accuracy, has yet to be invented. In France the “ t6I6metre Gouticr ” for^ field artillery, a two-man instrument, corresponds with the Wat kin mckomctcr.
The “ Gautier,” used by the Italian field artillery, is a one-man instrument, but requires a measured base-line. The “Aubry” telemeter, used by some of the Russian batteries in Manchuria, is very portable, but requires a measured base-line, and a slide rule to find the range. In the French and Russian infantry the “prisme-t616mdtre,” the invention of Colonel Souchier, is used. It is small, very light, and can be carried in the same manner as field-glasses. French machine guns are ranged by the “ td6m£trc instantan6,” an instrument of the Barr and Stroud type, with an aluminium base l metre in length.
For work in the field the modern tendency abroad is to follow Barr and Stroud. In Germany, Hahn, Goerz and Zeiss have produced handy and fairly light short base range-finders, in outward appearance more or less similar to Marindin’s instrument.
The Zeiss range-finder, however, depends on the stereoscopic principle. It is open to the objection that best results can only be obtained with it by persons who are capable of seeing stereoscopically, and also, in individuals possessing this particular gift (a comparatively small proportion of the human race), stereoscopic vision may vary in power from day to day. Nevertheless the Zeiss rangefinder has found favour in many countries, notably as the infantry range-finder in Italy. For naval and harbour defence .purposes the Barr and Stroud range-finder is very largely used throughout the world. In Italy a Barr and Stroud instrument, with the large base of 5 metres, was in 1908 under trial for coast artillery.
Of the depression range-finder type in France, ” le t6I6m0tre D6v6 ” is used at all heights of about 70 ft. and upwards.
Brazil possesses, in the invention of Captain Mario Netto, an excellent range-finder. It is supplied to the harbour defences of that country. It is accurate, handy, easily transported and re-crected where required, and is not affected by the concussion of heavy gun-fire. The German coast range-finder of Hahn closely resembles the earlier Watkin instruments. In Italy the Amici instrument is being replaced by the Braccialine. The latter inventor has also supplied his country with a horizontal base instrument.
After extended competitive trials in the^ U.S.A. the Lewis depression range-finder has been found superior to others presented to the Range-Finding Committee, and is recommended for adoption. It is a neat, workmanlike instrument, and gave an average mean error of 24 yds. in the ranges recorded during the trials. The maximum range was 12,000 yds. and the height of base 135J ft.
The details of position-finders abroad, as in the British service, arc confidential, and but little is published of the 11 t616mdtre par recoupement ” of the French coast batteries, or the 11 telcgonio-metro Sollier ” of Italy. In the United States, B. A. Fiske has ingeniously adapted the principle of the Wheatstone bridge in the construction of the position-finder which bears his name.
Seedc Marr6, Instruments pour la mesure de distances (Paris, 1880); Abridgments of Specifications, Class 97, Patent Office, London; Handbooks and Instructions for Range-Finder, published by the British War Office; Barr and Stroud, Proc. Inst. Meek. Eng., 30th Jan. 1896; Zeiss pamphlet by Carl Zeiss of Jena, which gives a candid statement of the difficulty attending the stereoscopic principle, &c.    (F. M. L.*)
RANGER, HENRY WARD (1858-    ), American artist, was
born at Syracuse, New York, in January 1858. He became a prominent landscape and marine painter, much of his work being done in Holland, and showing the influence of the modern Dutch school. He became a National Academician (1906), and a member of the American Water Color Society. Among his paintings are, “ Top of the Hill,” Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.; and “ East River Idyll,” Carnegie Institute, Pittsburg.
RANGOON, the capital of Burma, situated on the left bank of the Hlaing or Rangoon river, 21m. from the sea, in 160 47' N. and 96° 13' E. In 1880 the dty was detached from the main district, called Hanthawaddy, and formed into a separate •district, with an area of 19 sq. m. Pop. (1901) 234,881, of whom just half were immigrants from India. Rangoon, from being a comparatively insignificant place, has within less than half a century risen to be the third seaport in British India, being surpassed only by Calcutta and Bombay in the volume of its trade. During the busy season of rice-export, which lasts from the end of December to the middle of May, the pool forming the port of Rangoon presents almost as crowded a scene as the Hugh at Calcutta. Rangoon has the double advantage of being situated near the sea and being served by a great river navigable for 900 m. behind it- The approach to the port is not difficult at any season of the year. With flat and shelving shores, the shoal-banks off the main mouths of the delta form the chief danger to shipping, and this is guarded against by a good service of lighthouses and lightships. For a length of seven or eight miles the river is from a mile to a mile and a quarter in breadth, so that there is plenty of accommodation for shipping. Here is concentrated the whole of the rich trade of the delta of the Irrawaddy. Great part of the river frontage is occupied with rice-mills, teak wharves and similar buildings. The rice exported from Rangoon in 1904-5 amounted to 28 million cwt. with a value of nearly 7 million sterling.
The city is dominated by the great golden pile of the Shwe Dag6n pagoda, the centre of Burmese religious life. Rising to a height of 368 ft., this magnificent building is loftier than St Paul's Cathedral in London, and its size is greatly enhanced by the fact that it stands on an eminence that is itself 168 ft. above the level of the city. It is covered with pure gold from base to summit, and once in every generation this gold is renewed by public subscription. Moreover, benefactions to this pagoda are one of the favourite methods of acquiring religious merit among the Burmese. The pagoda itself has no interior. It is a solid stupa of brick, in the form of a cone, raised over a relic chamber; and the place of worship is the surrounding platform wT ith a perimeter of nearly 1400 ft.
Though traditionally a site of great sanctity, Rangoon owes its first importance to its rebuilding in 1753 by Alompra, the founder of the Burmese monarchy, who gave it the present name of Yan Kon, “the end of the war.” An English factory was opened here about 1790. On the outbreak of the first Burmese War, in 1824, it was taken by the British, but subsequently restored. It was captured a second time in 1852, and passed along with the province of Pegu into the hands of the British. It was destroyed by fire in 1850, and serious conflagrations occurred again in 1853 and 1855. Since the last devastation Rangoon has undergone considerable improvements. Until 1874, when the existing municipality was constituted, the administration was in the hands of the local government, which devoted itself to raising the centre of the town above the river level, providing land fit for building purposes from the original swamp, which was flooded at spring-tides, and making roads, bridges, culverts and surface drains. In 1892 was introduced the sewage system, which now includes 6 m. of mains, 22 m. of gravitating sewers, 4$ m. of air mains and 44 Shone's ejectors. The water supply, drawn from the Victoria Lake, 5 m. distant, has recently been supplemented by an additional reservoir, 10 m. farther off. The dty proper of Rangoon with the Kemmendine suburb is laid out on the block system, each block being 800 by 860 ft., intersected with regular streets. In the extensions to the east and west it has been dedded to have no streets less than 50 ft. wide. The roads are still lighted by kerosene oil lamps, but electric lighting is in comtemplation. Electric tramways run to Pazundaung in one direction and to A16n and Kemmendine in the other, as well as to the foot of the Shwe Dag6n Pagoda hill. Latterly the erection of masonry buildings, instead of plank houses, has been insisted on in the central portion of the city, with the result that fires have decreased in number. There are two large maidans, or commons, which are used as military parade grounds and for racing, as well as for golf links and other purposes of amusement. There is a garden round the Phayre Museum, managed by the Agri-Horticultural Sodety, and an extremely pretty and well-kept garden in the cantonments under the pagoda. Beyond these lie the Royal Lake and Dalhousie Park, with 160 acres of water and 205 acres of well-laid-out and well-timbered park land. Dalhousie Park has recently been greatly extended, and the new Victoria Park, declared open on the
occasion of the visit of the prince of Wales in 1906, is quite the finest in the East. There are two cathedrals, Church of England and Roman Catholic, and a Presbyterian church, besides the cantonment church buildings for worship. Religious buildings and lands, indeed, occupy an area in Rangoon out of all proportion to its size. Buddhists, Hindus, Mussulmans, Parsees, Armenians and Jews all own lands and pagodas, temples, mosques, churches and synagogues. The Buddhist monasteries, in particular, occupy wide spaces in very central portions of the town and cantonments. Burial-grounds are equally extensive, and exist in every direction in what were once the outskirts, but are now fast becoming central parts of the city. The chief educational institutions are the Government Rangoon college, the Baptist college and St John’s college (S.P.G.). Besides the general hospital, a female hospital in connexion with theDufferin Fund has recently been built, and there are hospitals for contagious diseases and for lepers in the suburbs. The staple industries are mills for husking rice and for sawing timber, and petroleum refineries. Carving in wood and ivory, and embossed silverwork are also carried on. There are three municipal and eight private markets, which are being improved and extended. Everything, from sacking to jewelry, is sold in them. The introduction of pure water and the establishment of compulsory vaccination have greatly improved the health of Rangoon. But the death-rate is still high, due partly to the swampy nature of the outskirts of the city proper, and still more to the mortality among Hindu immigrants from the Madras presidency. The total rainfall in 1905 was 104*96 in. Rangoon is the headquarters of a brigade in the Burma command of the Southern army.    (J. G. Sc.)
RANGPUR, or Rungpore, a town and district of British India, in the Rajshahi division of Eastern Bengal and Assam. The town is situated on the little river Ghaghat. Pop. (1901) 15,960. There are a high school, a normal school and an industrial school. The earthquake of the 12th of June 1897 destroyed many of the public buildings and diverted the drainage channels.
The District of Rangpur, with an area of 3493 sq. m., is one vast plain. The greater part of it, particularly towards the east, is inundated during the rains, and the remainder is traversed by a network of streams which frequently break through their sandy banks and plough for themselves new channels over the fields. The river system is constituted by the Brahmaputra and its tributaries, chief of which are the Tista, Dharla, Sankos and Dudhkumar. The climate is generally malarious, owing to the numerous stagnant swamps and .marshes filled with decaying vegetable matter. The annual rainfall averages 82 in. About three-fourths of the district is under continuous cultivation. Spare land can hardly be said to exist—even the patches of waste land yield a valuable tribute of reeds and cane. The staple crops are rice, oil-seeds, jute and tobacco. In 1901 the population was 2,154,181, showing an increase of 4.3 % in the decade. Nearly two-thirds are Mahommedans. The Eastern Bengal railway has two branches, one of which crosses the district to the Brahmaputra, and the other runs north towards Assam.
The tract comprised within the district of Rangpur was formerly the western outpost of the ancient Hindu kingdom of Kamrup, which appears to have attained its greatest power and prosperity under Raja Nilambar, who was treacherously overthrown by Ala-uddin Hosain of Bengal at the close of the 15th century. Rangpur passed to the East India Company in 1765 under the firman of the emperor Shah Alam. Since then a great number of changes have taken place in the jurisdiction, in consequence of which the district area has been much diminished.
RAN JIT SINGH, Maharaja (1780-1839), native Indian ruler, was born on the 2nd of November 1780, the son of Sirdar Mahan Singh, whom he succeeded in 1792 as head of the Sukar-chakia branch of the Sikh confederacy. By birth he was only one of many Sikh barons and owed his rapid rise entirely to force of character and will. At the age of seventeen he seized the reins of government. He is said to have poisoned his mother, though it is more probable that he merely imprisoned her to keep her out of his way. At the age of twenty he obtained from Zaman Shah, the king of Afghanistan, a grant of Lahore, which he seized by force of arms in 1799. Subsequently he attacked and annexed Amritsar in 1802, thus becoming master of the two Sikh capitals. When Jaswant Rao Holkar took refuge in the Punjab in 1805, Ran jit Singh made a treaty with the British, excluding Holkar from his territory. Shortly afterwards acute difficulties arose between him and the British as to the Cis-Sutlej portion of the Punjab. It was Ranjit Singh’s ambition to weld the whole of the Punjab into a single Sikh empire, while the British claimed the territory south of the Sutlej by right of conquest from the Mahrattas. The difference proceeded almost to the point of war; but at the last moment Ranjit Singh gave way, and for the future faithfully observed his engagements with the British, whose rising power he was wise enough to gauge. In 1808 Charles Metcalfe was sent to settle this question with Ranjit Singh, and a treaty was concluded at Amritsar on the 15th of April 1809. At this period a band of Sikh fanatics called “ akalis,” attacked Sir Charles Metcalfe’s escort, and the steadiness with which the disciplined sepoys repulsed them, so impressed the maharaja that he decided to change the strength of his army from cavalry to infantry. He organized a powerful force, which was trained by French and Italian officers such as Generals Ventura, Allard and Avitabile, and thus forged the formidable fighting instrument of the Khalsa army, which afterwards gave the British their hardest battles in India in the two Sikh wars. In 1810 he captured Multan after many assaults and a long siege, and in 1820 had consolidated the whole of the Punjab between the Sutlej and the Indus under his dominion. In 1823 the city and province of* Peshawar became tributary to him. In 1833 when Shah Shuja, flying from Afghanistan, sought refuge at his court, he took from him the Koh-i-nor diamond, which subsequently came into the possession of the British crown. Though he disapproved of Lord Auckland’s policy of substituting Shah Shuja for Dost Mahomed, he loyally supported the British in their advance on Afghanistan. Known as “ The Lion of the Punjah,” Ranjit Singh died of paralysis on the 27th of June 1839-
In his private life Ranjit Singh was selfish, avaricious, drunken and immoral, but he had a genius for command and was the only man the Sikhs ever produced strong enough to bind them together. His military genius showed itself not so much in actual generalship as in the organization of his plans, the selection of his generals and his ministers, the tenacity of his purpose and the soundness of his judgment. The British were the one power in India that was too strong for him, and as soon as he realized that fact he was unwaveringly loyal to his engagements with them. His power was military aristocracy resting on the personal qualities of its founder, and after his death the Sikh confederacy gradually crumbled and fell to pieces through sheer want of leadership; and the rule of the Sikhs in the Punjab passed away completely as soon as it incurred the hostility of the British.
See Sir Lepel Griffin, Ranjit Singh (Rulers of India Series), 1892; General Sir John Gordon, The Sikhs, 1904; and S. S. Thorburn, The Punjah tn Peace and War, 1904.
RANK (O.Fr. ranc or rencf mod. rang, generally connected with the O.E. and O.H.G. hring} a ring), a row or line, as of cabs or carriages, but especially of soldiers drawn up abreast in a line; in “ rank and file ” the “ rank ” is the horizontal line of soldiers, the “ file ” the vertical. From the sense of orderly arrangement “ rank ” is applied to grades or classes in a social or other organization, and particularly to a high grade, as in such expressions as a “ person of rank.” This word must be distinguished from the adjective “ rank,” over-luxuriant, coarse, strong, generally connected with the Low Ger. rank, thin, tall (cf. Du. rank, upright). The O.E. nwc, warrior, i.e. full-grown man, may be also connected with the word; Skeat refers also to “rack,” to pull out straight.
RANKE» LEOPOLD VON (1795-1886), German historian, was bom on the 20th or the 21st of December 1795, in the small town of Wichc, in Thuringia, which then formed part of the electorate of Saxony. His father, Gottlob Israel Ranke, was an advocate, but his ancestors, so far back as the family can be traced, had been ministers of religion. Leopold received his education first at Donndorf, a school established in an old monastery near his home, and then at the famous school of Schulpforta, whence he passed to the university of Halle and later to that of Berlin. His studies, both at school and university, were classical and theological. The great political events which occurred during his boyhood and youth seem to have had less effect on him than on many of his contemporaries, and he was not carried away either by enthusiastic admiration for Napoleon or by the patriotic fervour of 1813. Nor was he implicated in the political movements which during the following years attracted so many students; on the contrary, he already displayed that detachment of mind which was to be so characteristic of him. In 1818 he became a master in a school at Frankfort-on-the*Oder, thereby entering the service of the Prussian government. The headmaster of this school was Ernst Friedrich Poppo (1794-1866), a celebrated Grecian, and Ranke was entrusted with the teaching of history.
With the scholar’s dislike of textbooks, he rapidly acquired a thorough knowledge of the ancient historians, quickly passed on to medieval times, and here it was that he formed as the ideal of his life the study of universal history, the works of God as displayed in the history of the human race. Here, too, he composed his first work, which deals with the period to which most of his life was to be devoted, Geschichte der rdmanischen und germanischen V biker 14Q4-1514 (Berlin, 1824). To this was appended a critical dissertation on the historians who had dealt with the period (Zur Kritik neuerer Geschichtschreiber), which, showing as it did how untrustworthy was much of traditional history, was to be for modern history as epoch-marking as the critical work of Niebuhr had been in ancient history. A copy of the book was sent to the Prussian minister of education, Karl Albert Kamptz (1769-1849), the notorious hunter of democrats. Within a week Ranke received the promise of a post at Berlin, and in less than three months was appointed supernumerary professor in the university of that city, a striking instance of the promptitude with which the Prussian government recognized scientific merit when, as in Ranke’s case, it was free from dangerous political opinions. The connexion thus established in 1825 was to last for fifty years. At the Berlin Library Ranke found a collection of MS. records, chiefly Italian, dealing with the period of the Reformation; from a study of them he found how different were the real events as disclosed in contemporary documents from the history as recorded by most writers; and the result of his researches was embodied in his second work, Fitrsten und Vdlker von Sudeuropa im 16 und 17 Jahrhundert (1827). In later editions the title of this book was altered to Die Osmanen und die spanische Monarchies It was now his ambition to continue his exploration of the new world thus opened to him. The Prussian government provided the means, and in September 1827 he started for Italy. His first sojourn was in Vienna, where the friendship of Gentz and the protection of Metternich opened to him the Venetian archives, of which many were preserved in that city—a virgin field, the value of which he first discovered, and which is still unexhausted. He found time, in addition, to write a short book on Die Serbiscke Revolution (1829), from material supplied to him by Wuk Stephanowich, a Servian who had himself been witness of the scenes he related. This was afterwards expanded into Serbien und die Tilrkei im IQ Jahrhundert (1879). In 1828 he at last crossed the Alps, and the next three years were spent in Italy. The recommendations of Metternich opened to him almost every library except the Vatican; and it was during these three years of study in Venice, Ferrara, Rome, Florence and other cities, that he obtained that acquaintance with European history which was to make him the first historian of his time.
At Rome, as he said, he learned to see events from the inside. He wrote nothing but a critical examination of the story of Don Carlos, but he returned to Germany a master of his craft.
For a time Ranke was now engaged in an occupation of a different nature, for he was appointed editor of a periodical in which Friedrich Perthes designed to defend the Prussian government against the democratic press. Ranke, contemptuous in politics, as in history, of the men who warped facts to support some abstract theory, especially disliked the doctrinaire liberalism so fashionable at the time. He hoped, by presenting facts as they were, to win the adhesion of all parties.. We need not be surprised that he failed; men desired not the scientific treatment of politics, but satire and invective. Exposed thus to attack, his weakness, if not his venality, was long an article of faith among the liberals. He did not satisfy the Prussian conservatives, and after four years the Historische PolUische Blatter came to an end. Two-thirds of the matter had been contributed by the editor, and the two stout volumes in which the numbers were collected contained the best political thought which had for long appeared in Germany. For Ranke the failure was not to be regretted; the rest of his life was to be wholly devoted to that in which he excelled. During 1834-36 appeared the three volumes of his Die romischen P'dpsit, ihre Kir eke und ihr Staat im 16 und 17 Jahrhundert (Berlin, 1834-36, and many other editions), in form, as in matter, the greatest of his works, containing the results of his studies in Italy. Henceforth his name was known in all European countries; the English translation by Mrs Austin was the occasion of one of Macaylay’s most brilliant essays. Before it was completed he had already begun the researches on which was based the second of his masterpieces, his Deutsche Geschichte im Zeitalter der Reformation (Berlin, 1839-47), a necessary pendant to his book on the popes, and the most popular of his works in his own country. In 1837 he became full professor at Berlin; in 1841 Frederick William IV., always ready to recognize intellectual eminence, appointed him Prussian historiographer. Stimulated by this, he brought out his Neun Bilcher preussischer Geschichte (1847-48), a work which, chiefly owing to the nature of *he subject, makes severe demands on the attention of the reader—he is the “ Dryasdust ” of Carlyle’s Frederick; but in it he laid the foundation for the modern appreciation of the founders of the Prussian state. The nine books were subsequently expanded to twelve (Leipzig, 1874). He took no immediate part in the movements of 1848, but in the following years he drew up several memoranda for the king, whom he encouraged in his efforts to defend the character and identity of the Prussian state against the revolutionaries. Though never admitted into the inner circle of the king’s associates, he found the king the most appreciative of readers and stimulating of companions, and the queen one of the most faithful of his friends; in biographical works and on other occasions he always defended the memory of the unfortunate monarch. A friend even more sympathetic he found in Maximilian II. of Bavaria, whom he advised in his expansive schemes for the promotion of learning and letters. In the quieter years that followed he wrote the third of his masterpieces, Franzbsische Geschichte, vornehmlich im 16 und 17 Jahrhundert (Stuttgart, 1852-61), which was followed by his Englische Geschichte, vornehmlich im 16 und 17 Jahrhundert (1859-68). This, the longest of his works, added much to existing knowledge, especially as to the relations between England and the continent, but it lacked something of the freshness of his earlier books; he was over seventy when it was. completed, and he was never quite at home in dealing with the parliamentary foundations of English public life. In his later years his small alert figure was one of the most distinguished in the society of Berlin, and every honour open to a man of letters was conferred upon him. He was ennobled in 1865, and in 1885 received the title of Excellenz. When the weakness of his eyes made it necessary for him to depend almost entirely on the service of readers and secretaries,
in his eighty-first year he began to write the Weltgeschichte (9 vols., Leipzig, 1883-88). Drawing on the knowledge accumulated during sixty years, he had hrought it down to the end of the 15th century before his death in Berlin on the 23rd of May 1886.
Ranke’s other writings include Zur deutschen Geschichte. Vom Religionsfrieden bis zum 30 jährigen Kriege (Leipzig, 1868); Geschichte Wallensteins (Leipzig, 1869; 5th ed., 1896); Abhandlungen und Versuche (Leipzig, 1877; a new collection of these writings was edited by A. Dove and T. Wiedemann, Leipzig, 1888); Aus dem Briefwechsel Friedrich Wilhelms IV. mit Bunsen (Leipzig, 1873); D*e deutschen Mächte und der Fürsten-bund. Deutsche Geschickte 17 80-go (1871-72); Historischbiographische Studien (Leipzig, 1878); Ursprung und Beginn der Revolutionskriege 17Q1-Q2 (Leipzig, 1875); and Zur Geschichte von Oesterreich und Preussen zwischen den Friedensschlüssen zu Aachen und Hubertusberg (Leipzig, 1875). He also wrote biographies of Frederick the Great and Frederick William IV. for the Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie.
Ranke married, at Windermere, in 1843, Miss Clara Graves, daughter of an Irish barrister. She died in 1870, leaving two sons and one daughter.
At the time of his death Ranke was, not in his own country alone, generally regarded as the first of modern historians. It is no disparagement to point out that the recognition he obtained was due not only to his published work, but also to his success as a teacher. His pubb'c lectures, indeed, were never largely attended, but in his more private classes, where he dealt with the technical work of a historian, he trained generations of scholars. No one since Heyne has had so great an influence on German academical life, and for a whole generation the Berlin school had no rival. He took paternal pride in the achievements of his pupils, and delighted to see, through, them, his influence spreading in every university. While his own work lay chiefly in more modern times, he trained in his classes a school of writers on German medieval history. As must always happen, it is only a part of his characteristics which they learnt from him, for his greatest qualities were incommunicable. The critical method which has since become almost a formal system, aiming at scientific certainty, was with him an unexampled power, based on the insight acquired from wide knowledge, which enabled him to judge the credibility of an author or the genuineness of an authority; but he has made it impossible for any one to attempt to write modern history except on the “ narratives of eye-witnesses and the most genuine immediate documents ” preserved in the archives. From the beginning he was determined never to allow himself to be misled, in his search for truth, by those theories and prejudices by which nearly every other historian was influenced—Hegelianism, Liberalism, Romanticism, religious and patriotic prejudice; but his superiority to the ordinary passions of the historian could only be attained by those who shared his elevation of character. “ My object is simply to find out how the things actually occurred.” “ I am first a historian, then a Christian,” he himself said. In another way no historian is less objective, for in his greatest works the whole narrative is coloured by the quality of his mind expressed in his style. An enemy to all controversy and all violence, whether in act or thought, he had a serenity of character comparable only to that of Sophocles or Goethe. Apt to minimize difficulties, to search for the common ground of unity in opponents, he turned aside, with a disdain which superficial critics often mistook for indifference, from the base, the violent and the common. As in a Greek tragedy, we hear in his works the echo of great events and terrible catastrophes; we do not see them. He also made it a principle not to relate that which was already well known, a maxim which necessarily prevented his works attaining a popularity with the unlearned equal to their reputation among historians. But no writer has surpassed him in the clearness and brevity with which he could sum up the characteristics of an epoch in the history of the world, or present and define the great forces by which the world has been influenced. His classicism led to his great limitations as an historian. He did not deal with the history of the people, with economic or social problems—the dignity of history was to him a reality. He belonged to the school of Thucydides and Gibbon, not to that of Macaulay and Taine; he deals by preference with the rulers and leaders of the world, and he strictly limits his field to the history of the state, or, as we should say, political history; and in this he is followed by Seeley, one of the greatest of his adherents. The leader of modern historians, he was in truth a man of the ancien régime.
Many of Ranke’s works have been translated into 'English. Among these are Civil Wars and Monarchy in France, by M. A. Garvey (1852); History of England, principally in the 17th Century (Oxford, 1875); History of the Latin and Teutonic Nations, 1494-1514, by P. A. Ashworth (1887) and again by S. R. Dennis (1909); History of the Reformation in Germany, by S. Austin (1845-47); History of Servia and the Servian Revolution, by Mrs A. Kerr (1847); Ferdinand /. and Maximilian II. of Austria; State of Germany after the Reformation, by Lady Duff Gordon (1853) ; Memoirs of the House of Brandenburg and History of Prussia during the 17th and 18th Centuries, by Sir Alexander and Lady Duff Gordon (1849); and History of the Popes during the 16th and 17th Centuries, by S. Austin (1840; new eds., 1841 and 1847), by W. K. Kelly (1843), and by E. Foster (1847-^3). A collected edition of Ranke’s works in fifty-four volumes was issued at Leipzig (1868-90), but this does not contain the Weltgeschichte.
For details of Ranke’s fife and work see his own Zur eigenen Lebensgeschichte, edited by A. Dove (Leipzig, 1890); and the article by Dove in the Allgemeine deutsche Biographie. Also Winckler, Leopold von Ranke. Lichtstrahlen aus seinen Werken (Berlin, 1885) ; W. v on Giesebrecht, Gedächtnisrede auf Leopold von Ranke (Munich, 1887) ; Guglia, Leopold von Rankes Lehen und Werke (Leipzig, 1893); M. Ritter, Leopold von Ranke (Stuttgart, 1895); Nalbandian, Leopold von Rankes Bitdungsjahre und Geschichtsauffassung (Leipzig, 1901); and Helmolt, Leopold Ranke (Leipzig, 1907).
HANKINE, WILLIAM JOHN MÀCQÜORN (1820-1872), Scottish engineer and physicist, was born at Edinburgh on the 5th of July 1820, and completed his education in its university. He was trained as an engineer under Sir J. B. Macneill, working chiefly on surveys, harbours and railroads, and was appointed in 1855 to the chair of civil engineering in Glasgow, vacant by the resignation of Lewis Gordon, whose wT ork he had undertaken during the previous session. He was a voluminous writer on subjects directly connected with his chair, and, besides contributing almost weekly to the technical journals, such as the Engineer, brought out a series of standard textbooks on Civil Engineering, The Steam-Engine and other Prime Movers, Machinery and Millwork, and Applied Mechanics, which have passed through many editions, and have contributed greatly to the advancement of the subjects with which they deal. To these must be added his elaborate treatise on Shipbuilding, Theoretical and Practical. These workings, however, corresponded to but one phase of Rankine’s immense energy and many-sided character. He was an enthusiastic and most useful leader of the volunteer movement from its beginning, and a writer, composer and singer of humorous and patriotic songs, some of which, as “ The Three Foot Rule ” and “ They never shall have Gibraltar,” became well known far beyond the circle of his acquaintance. Rankine was the earliest of the three founders of the modem science of Thermodynamics (?.r.) on the bases laid by Sadi Carnot and J. P. Joule respectively, and the author of the first formal treatise on the subject. His contributions to the theories of Elasticity and of Waves rank high among modem developments of mathematical physics, although they are mere units among the 150 scientific papers attached to his name in the Royal Society’s Catalogue. The more important of these were collected and reprinted in a handsome volume {Rankine's Scientific Papers, London, 1881), which contains a memoir of the author by Prof. P. G. Tait. Rankine died at Glasgow on the 24th of December 1872.
RANNOCH, a district of north-west Perthshire, Scotland, partly extending into Argyllshire. It measures 32 m. E. and W. and from 10 to 12 m. N. and S. and is surrounded by the districts of Badenoch, Atholl, Breadalbane, Lome and Loch-aber. Much of it is wild, bleak and boggy, and, saving on the E., it is shut in by rugged mountains. The chief rivers are
the Tummcl and the Ericht, and the principal lakes Loch Rannoch and Loch Lydoch, or Laidon (about 6 m. long, } m. wide and 924 ft. above the sea). Loch Rannoch lies E. and W., measures 9} m. long by fully 1 m. broad, is 668 ft. above the sea, covers an area of nearly 7J sq. m.f and has a greatest depth of 440 ft. It receives the Ericht and many other streams, and discharges by the Tummel, draining a total area of 243 £ sq. m. At the head of the lake is Rannoch Barracks, so named because it was originally built to accommodate a detachment of troops, under ensign (afterwards Sir) Hector Munro, stationed here to maintain order after the Jacobite rising of 1745. Two miles east is Carie, which was the residence of Alexander Rohertson, 13th baron of Struan (1670-1749), the Jacobite and poet, who was “out” with Dundee (1689), Mar (1715) and Prince Charles Edward (1745), and yet managed to escape all punishment beyond self-imposed exile to France after the first two rebellions. Kinloch Rannoch, at the foot of the loch, is the principal place in the district, and is in communication by coach with Struan station (13 m. distant) on the Highland, and Rannoch station (6 m.) on the West Highland railway. Dugald Buchanan (1716-1768), the Gaelic poet, was schoolmaster of the village for thirteen years, and a granite obelisk has been erected to his memory.
RANSOM (from Lat. redemption through Fr. ranqon), the price for which a captive in war redeemed his life or his freedom, a town secured immunity from sack, and a ship was repurchased from her captors. The practice of taking ransom arose in the middle ages, and had perhaps a connexion with the common Teutonic custom of commuting for crimes by money payments. It may, however, have no such historic descent. The desire to make profit out of the risks of battle, even* when they were notably diminished by the use of armour, would account for it sufficiently. The right to ransom was recognized by law. One of the obligations of a feudal tenant was to contribute towards paying the ransom of his lord. England was taxed for the ransom of Richard the Lion Hearted, France for King John taken at Poitiers, and Scotland for King David when he was captured at Durham. The prospect of gaining the ransom of a prisoner must have tended to diminish the ferocity of medieval war, even when it did not reduce the fighting between the knights to a form of athletic sport in which the loser paid a forfeit. Readers of Froissart will find frequent mention of this decidedly commercial aspect of the chivalrous wars of the time. He often records how victors and vanquished arranged their “ financing.” The mercenary views of the military adventurers were not disguised. Froissart repeats the story that the English “ free companions ” or mercenaries, who sold their services to the king of Portugal, grumbled at the battle of Aljubarrota in 1385, because he ordered their prisoners to be killed, and would not pursue the defeated French and Spaniards, wherehy they lost lucrative captures. The ransom of a king belonged to the king of the enemy by whom he was taken. The actual captor was rewarded at the pleasure of his lord. King Edward III. paid over instalments of the ransom of the king of France to the Black Prince, to pay the expenses of his expedition into Spain in 1367. Occasionally, as in the notable case of Bertrand du Guesclin, the ransom of a valuable knight or leader would be paid by his own sovereign. To trade in ransoms became a form of financial speculation. Sir John Fastolf in the time of King Henry V. is said to have made a large fortune by buying prisoners, and then screwing heavy ransoms out of them by ill-usage. The humane influence of ransom was of course confined to the knights who could pay. The common men, who were too poor, were massacred. Thus Lord Grey, Queen Elizabeth’s lord deputy in Ireland, spared the officers of the Spaniards and Italians he took at Smerwick, but slaughtered the common men. Among the professional soldiers of Italy in the 15th century the hope of gaining ransom tended to reduce war to a farce. They would not lose their profits by killing their opponents. The disuse of the practice was no doubt largely due to the discovery that men who were serving for this form of gain could not be trusted to fight seriously.
Instances in which towns paid to avoid being plundered are innumerable. So late as the war in the Peninsula, 1808-14, it was the belief of the English soldiers that a town taken by storm was liable to sack for three days, and they acted on their conviction at Ciudad Rodrigo, Badajoz, and San Sebastian. It was a question whether ransoms paid by merchant ships to escape were or were not among the commercia belli. In the early 18th century the custom was that the captain of a captured vessel gave a bond or “ ransom bill,” leaving one of his crew as [a hostage or “ ransomer ” in the hands of the captor. Frequent mention is made of the taking of French privateers which had in them ten or a dozen ransomers. The owner could be sued on his bond. At the beginning of the Seven Years’ War ransoming was forbidden by act of parliament. But it was afterwards at least partially recognized by Great Britain, and was generally allowed by other nations. In recent times—for instance in the Russo-Japanese War—no mention was made of ransom, and with the disappearance of privateering, which was conducted wholly for gain, it has ceased to have any place in war at sea, but the contributions levied by invading armies might still be accurately described by the name.
RANTERS, an antinomian and spiritualistic English sect in the time of the Commonwealth, who may be described as the dregs of the Seeker movement. Their central idea was pantheistic, that God is essentially in every creature, but though many of them were sincere and honest in their attempt to express the doctrine of the Divine immanence, they were in the main unable to hold the balance. They denied Church, Scripture, the current ministry and services, calling on men to hearken to Christ within them. Many of them seem to have rejected a belief in immortality and in a personal God, and in many ways they resemhle the Brethren of the Free Spirit in the 14th century. Their vague pantheism landed them in moral confusion, and many of them were marked by fierce fanaticism. How far the accusation of lewdness brought against them is just is hard to say, but they seem to have been a really serious peril to the nation. They were largely recruited from the common people, and there is plenty of evidence to show that the movement was widespread. The Ranters came into contact and even rivalry with the early Quakers, who were often unjustly associated with them. The truth is that the positive message of the Friends helped to save England from being overrun with Ranterism. Samuel Fisher, a Friend, writing in 1653,gives a calm and instructive account of the Ranters, ■ which with other relevant information, including Richard Baxter’s rather hysterical attack, may be read in Rufus M. Jones’s Studies in Mystical Religion (1909), xix. In the middle of the 19th century the name was often applied to the Primitive Methodists, with reference to their crude and often noisy preaching.
RANUNCULACEAE, in botany, a natural order of Dicotyledons belonging to the subclass Polypetalae, and containing 27 genera with about 500 species, which are distributed through temperate and cold regions but occur more especially beyond .the tropics in the northern hemisphere. It is well represented in Britain, where ir genera are native. The plants are mostly herbs, rarely shrubby, as in Clematis, which climbs by means of the leaf-stalks, with alternate leaves, opposite in ClematiSj generally without stipules, and flowers which show considerable variation in the number and development of parts but arc characterized by free hypogynous sepals and petals, numerous free stamens, usually many free onc-celled carpels (fig. 2) and small seeds containing a minute straight embryo embedded in a copious endorsperm. The parts of the flower arc generally arranged spirally on a convex receptacle. The fruit is one-sceded, an achene (fig. 3), or a many-seeded follicle (fig. 4), rarely, as in Actaca, a berry.
The order falls into several well-defined tribes which are distinguished by characters of the flower and fruit; all are
represented among British native or commonly grown garden plants.
Tribe I. Paeonieae, peony group, are mostly herbs with deeply cut leaves and large solitary showy flowers in which the parts are spirally arranged, the sepals, generally five in number, passing gradually into the large coloured petals. The indefinite stamens are succeeded by 2-5 free carpels which bear a double row of ovules along the ventral suture. Honey is secreted by a ring-like swelling round the base of the carpels, which become fleshy or leathery in the fruit and dehisce along the ventral suture. There are only three genera, the largest of which, Paeonia, occurs in Europe, temperate Asia and western North America. P. officinalis is the common peony.
Tribe II. Helleboreae are almost exclusively north temperate or subarctic; there are 15 genera, several of which are represented in the British flora. The plants are herbs, either annual, e.g. Nigella (love-in-a-mist), or perennial by means of a rhizome, as in Aconitum or Eranthis (winter aconite). The leaves are simple, as in Caltha, but more often palmately divided as in hellebore (fig. 6), aconite Kfig· 5) and larkspur. The flowers are solitary (Eranthis) or in
cymes or racemes, and are generally regular as in Caltha (king-cup, marsh marigold), Trollius (globe-flower), Helleborus, Aquilegia (columbine); sometimes medianly zygomorphic as in Aconitum (monkshood, aconite) and Delphinium (larkspur). The carpels, generally 3 to 5 in number, form in the fruit a many-seeded follicle, except in Actaea (baneberry), where the single carpel develops to form a many-seeded berry, and in Nigella, where the five carpels unite to form a five-chambered ovary. There is considerable variety in the form of the floral envelopes and the arrangement of the parts. The outer series, or sepals, generally five in number, is generally white or bright-coloured, serving as an attraction for insects, especially bees, as well as a protection for the rest of the flower. Thus in Caltha and Trollius the sepals form a brilliant golden-yellow cup or globe, and in Eranthis a pale yellow star which contrasts with the green involucre of bracts immediately below it; in Nigella they are blue or yellow, and also coloured in Aquilegia. In Hellebore the greenish sepals persist till the fruit is ripe. A conitum and Delphinium differ in the irregular development of the sepals,
the posterior sepal being distinguished from the remaining four by its helmet-shape (Aconitum) or spur tDelphinium). In Coliha there are no petals, but in the other genera there are honey-secreting and storing structures varying in number and in form in the different genera. In Trollius they are long and narrow with a honey-secreting pit at the base, in Nigdla and Helleborus (fig. 7) they form short-
stalked pitchers, in Aquilegia they are large and coloured with a showy petal-like upper portion and a long basal spur in the tip of which is the nectary. In Delphinium they are also spurred, and in Aconitum form a spur-like sac on a long stalk (fig. 8). The parts
of the flower are generally arranged in a spiral (acyclic), but are sometimes hemicyclic, the perianth forming a whorl as in winter aconite; rarely is the flower cyclic, as in Aquilegia (fig. 9) where
the parts throughout are arranged in alternating whorls. In Caltha, where there are no petals, honey is secreted by two shallow depressions on the side of each carpel.
Tribe III. Anemoneaef with 8 genera, are chiefly north temperate, arctic and alpine plants, but also pass beyond the tropics to the southern hemisphere. They differ from the two preceding tribes in the numerous carpels, each with only one ovule, forming a fruit of numerous achenes. They are annual or perennial herbs, erect as in Anemone, Thalictrum (meadow-rue) and many buttercups, or creeping as in Ranunculus repens; the section Batrachium of the genus Ranunculus (<?.r.) contains aquatic plants with submerged or floating stems and leaves. The flowers are solitary, as in Anemone Pulsatilla (Pasque flower) and the wood anemone, or cymose as in species of Ranunculus, or in racemes or panicles as in Thalictrum. The parts are spirally arranged throughout as in Myosurus (mouse-tail), where the very numerous carpels are borne on a much elongated receptacle, or Adonis (pheasant's eye), or the perianth is whorled as in Anemone and Ranunculus. In Anemone there is a whorl of foliage leaves below the flower, as in Eranthis. In Anemone and Thalictrum there is only one series of perianth leaves, which are petaloid and attractive in Anemone where honey is secreted by modified stamens, as in A. Pulsatilla, or, as in m A. nemorosa (wood anemone), there is no honey and the flower is visited by insects for the-sake of the pollen; in Thalictrum the perianth is greenish or
slightly coloured and the flower is wind-pollinated (T. minus) or visited for its pollen. In Ranunculus and Adonis a calyx of green protective sepals is succeeded by a corolla of showy petals; in Ranunculus (fig. io) there is a basal honey-secreting gland which is absent in Adonis. In Anemone the achenes bear the persistent naked or bearded style which aids in dissemination; the same purpose is served by the prickles on the achenes of Ranunculus arvensis.
Tribe IV. Clematideae ^comprise the genus Clematis (<q.v.), characterized by its shrubby, often climbing habit, opposite leaves and^ the valvate, not imbricate as in the other tribes, aestivation of the sepals. The usually four sepals are whorled and petaloid, the numerous stamens and carpels are spirally arranged; the flowers are visited by insects for the sake of the abundant pollen. The fruit consists of numerous achenes which are generally prolonged into the long feathery style, whence the popular name of the British species, old man's beard (Clematis vitalba). The genus, which contains about 170 species, has a wide distribution^ but is rarer in the tropics than in temperate regions.
Special articles will be found on the more important genera of Ranunculaceae, e.g. Aconitum, Adonis, Anemone, Baneberry (Actaea), Clematis, Columbine, Hellebore, Ranunculus.
RANUNCULUS, familiarly known as “ buttercup,” or crowfoot, a characteristic type of the botanical order Ranunculaceae. The Lat. name, which means a little frog or tadpole (dim. of rana, frog), was also given to a medicinal plant, which has been identified by some with the crowfoot. The Ranunculi are more or less acrid herbs, sometimes with fleshy root-fibres, or with the base of the stem dilated into a kind of tuber (R. bulbosus). They have tufted or alternate leaves, dilated into a sheath at the base, and very generally, but not universally, deeply divided above. The flowers are solitary, or in loose cymes, and are remarkable for the number and distinctness (freedom from union) of their parts. Thus there are five sepals, as many petals, and numerous spirally arranged stamens and carpels. The petals have a little pit or honey-gland at the base, which is interesting as foreshadowing the more fully developed tubular petals of the nearly allied genera Aconitum and Hclleborus. The fruit is a head of “ achenes ”—dry, one-seeded fruits. The genus contains a large number of species (about 250) and occurs in most temperate countries in the northern and southern hemispheres, extending into arctic and antarctic regions, and appearing on the higher mountains in the tropics. About twenty species are natives of Great Britain. R. acris, R. repens, R. bulbosus, are the common buttercups. R. arvensis, found in cornfields, has smaller pale yellow flowers and the achenes covered with stout spines. R. Lingua, spearwort, and R. Flammula, lesser spearwort, grow in marshes, ditches and wet places. R. Ficaria is the pilewort or lesser celandine, an early spring flower in pastures and waste places, characterized by having heart-shaped entire leaves and clusters of club-shaped roots. The section Batrachium comprises the watcr-buttercups, denizens of pools and streams, which vary greatly in the character of the foliage according as it is submersed, floating or aerial, and when submersed varying in accordance with the depth and strength of the current. The ranunculus of the florist is a cultivated form of R. asiaticus, a native of the Levant, remarkable for the range of colour of the flowers (yellow to purplish black) and for the regularity with which the stamens and pistils are replaced by petals forming double flowers. R. asialicus is one of the older florists’ flowers, which has sported into numberless varieties, but was formerly held in much greater esteem than it is at the present time. According to the canons of the florists, the flowers, to be perfect, should be of the form of two-thirds of a ball, the outline forming a perfect circle, with the centre close, the petals smooth-edged, the colour dense, and the marking uniform.
The ranunculus requires a strong and moist soil, with a fourth of rotten dung. The soil should be from 18 in. to 2 ft. deep, and at about β in. below the surface there should be placed a stratum 6 or 8 in. thick of two-year-old rotten cow-dung, mixed with earth, the earth above this stratum, where the roots are to be placed, being perfectly free from fresh dung. The tubers are planted in rows 5 or 6 in. apart, and 3 or 4 in. apart in the rows, the turban sorts in October, the more choice varieties in February. They should be so close that the foliage may cover the surface of the bed. The autumn-planted roots must be sheltered from severe frost. The plants when in flower should be screened from hot sunshine with an awning; when the leaves wither, the roots are to be taken up, dried, and stored. The ranunculus is readily propagated from seed obtained from semi-double sorts, which are often of themselves very beautiful flowers. It is generally sown in boxes in autumn or spring. The young plants thus raised flower often in the second, and always in the third year.
The turban varieties, which are very showy for the borders, are of a few positive colours, as scarlet, yellow, brown, carmine, and white. The florists' varieties have been bred from the Persian type, which is more delicate.
Other species known in gardens are R. aconitifolius (white bachelor's buttons), with leaves recalling aconite, and white flowers; the double-flowered form is known in gardens as fair maids of France or fair maids of Kent. A double-flowered form of R. acris is grown under the name yellow bachelor's buttons. R. bulbosus also has a pretty double-flowered variety. Of dwarfer interesting plants there are R. alpestris, 4 in., white; R. gramineus, 6 to 10 in., yellow; R. pamassifolius, 6 in., white; and R. rutaefolius, 4 to 6 in., white with orange centre. Of the taller kinds mention may be made of R. cortusaefolius, a fine buttercup, 3-5 ft. high, from Teneriffe, and hardy in the mildest parts of Britain; and R. hyalli, known as the New Zealand water lily. It is a handsome species, 2 to 4 ft. high, with large peltate leaves often a foot in diameter, and with waxy white flowers about 4 in. across. It is not quite hardy, and even under the best conditions is a difficult plant to grow well.
RAO, SIR DINKAR (1819-1896), Indian statesman, was born in Ratnagiri district, Bombay, on the 20th of December 1819, being a Chitpavan Brahmin. At fifteen he entered the service of the Gwalior state, in which his ancestors had served. Rapidly promoted to the responsible charge of a division, he displayed unusual talents in reorganizing the police and revenue departments, and in reducing chaos to order. In 1851 Dinkar Rao became dewan. The events which led to the British victories of Maharajpur and Panniar in 1844 had filled the state with mutinous soldiery, ruined the finances, and weakened authority. With a strong hand the dewan suppressed disorder, abolished ruinous imposts, executed public works, and by a reduction of salaries, including his own, turned a deficit into a surplus. When the contingent mutinied in 1857, he never wavered in loyalty; and although the state troops also mutinied in June 1858 on the approach of Tantia Topi, he adhered to the British cause, retiring with Maharaja Sindhia to the Agra fort. After the restoration of order he remained minister until December 1859. In 1873 he was appointed guardian to the minor Rana of Dholpur, but soon afterwards he resigned, owing to ill-health. In 1875 the viceroy selected him as a commissioner, with the Maharajas Sindhia and Jaipur, and three British colleagues, to try the Gaekwar of Baroda on a charge of attempting to poison the British resident. He also served in the legislative council of India, and was frequently consulted by viceroys on difficult questions. An estate was conferred upon him, with the hereditary title of Raja, for his eminent services, and the decoration of K.C.S.I. He died on the 9th of January 1896. No Indian statesman of the 19th century gained a higher reputation, yet he only commenced the study of English at the age of forty, and was never able to converse fluently in it; his orthodoxy resented social reforms; he kept aloof from the Indian Congress, and he had received no training in British administration.
RAO, SIR T. MADHAVA (1828-1891), Indian statesman, was born at Combaconum in Madras in 1828. Madhava Rao created a new type of minister adapted to the modern requirements of a progressive native state, and he grafted it upon the old stock. He linked the past with the present, using the advantages of heredity, tradition and conservatism to effect reforms in the public administration and in Indian society. Sprung from a Mahratta Brahmin stock long settled at Tanjore, the son of a dewan of Travancore, he was educated in the strictest tenets of his sacred caste. But he readily imbibed the new spirit of the age. To mathematics, science and astronomy he added a study of English philosophy and international law, and a taste for art
and pictures. Although a devout student of the Shastras, he advocated female education and social reform. Refusing to cross the sea and so break caste by appearing before a parliamentary commission, he yet preached religious toleration. A patron of the Indian Congress, he borrowed from the armoury of British administration every reform which he introduced into the native states. He was respected alike by Europeans md natives, and received titles and honours from the British government. As tutor of the maharaja of Travancore, and then as revenue officer in that state, he showed firmness and ability, and became diwan or prime minister in 1857; He found the finances disorganized, and trade cramped by monopolies and oppressive duties. He co-operated with the Madras government in carrying out reforms, and when his measures led to misunderstandings with the maharaja, he preferred honourable resignation to retention of a lucrative office in which tie was powerless for good. In 1872 he was engaged at Indore n laying down a plan of reform and of public works which he jequeathed to his successor, when a grave crisis at Baroda demanded his talents there. The Gaekwar had been deposed :or scandalous misrule, and an entire reorganization was needed. \ided by Sir Philip Melvill, Madhava Rao swept away the rorrupt officials, privileged sirdars and grasping contractors vho had long ruined Baroda. He wrote able minutes defending :he rights and privileges of the Gaekwar from fancied encroach-nent, and justifying the internal reforms which he introduced. Hie resigned office in 1882, and in his retirement devoted his leisure to reading and writing upon political and social questions. He died on the 4th of April 1891.
RAOUL DE CAMBRAI, the name of a French chanson dc icste. The existing romance is a 13th-century recension of a joem by a trouvère of Laon called Bertholais, who professed :o have witnessed the events he described. It presents, like :he other provincial geste of Garin le Loherain, a picture of the devastation caused by the private wars of the feudal chiefs. \ parallel narrative, obviously inspired by popular poetry, is ^reserved in the chronicle of Waulsort (ed. Achery, Spicilegium, i. p. 100 seq.), and probably corresponds with the earlier recension. Raoul de Cambrai, the posthumous son of Raoul Taillefer, :ount of Cambrai, by his wife Alais, sister of King Louis [d’Outre-Mer), whose father’s lands had been given to another, demanded the fief of Vermandois, which was the natural in-ieritance-of the four sons of Herbert, lord of Vermandois. On Ring Louis’s refusal, he proceeded to war. The chief hero on :he Vermandois side was Bernier, a grandson, of Count Herbert, vho had been the squire and firm adherent of Raoul, until he vas driven into opposition by the fate of his mother, burned .vith the nuns in the church of Origny. Bernier eventually >lew the terrible Raoul in single fight, but in his turn was slain, ifter an apparent reconciliation, and the blood-feud descended o his sons. The date of these events is exactly ascertainable. Flodoard (Annales, Anno 943) states that Count Herbert died n that year, and was buried by his sons at St Quentin, that .vhen they learnt that Raoul, son of Raoul de Gouy, was about o invade their father’s territory, they attacked him and put dm to death. The identity of other of the personages of the itory has also been fixed from historical sources. The second )art of the poem, of which Bernier is the hero, is of later date, ind bears the character of a roman d’aventures.
See Li Romans de Raoul de Cambrai et de Bernier, ed. E. le Glay [Paris, 1840); Raoul de Cambrai, ed. P. Meyer and A. Longnon [Soc. des anc. textes fr.% Paris, 1882); J. M. Ludlow, Popular Epics >f the Middle Ages (London and Cambridge, 1865); H. Grôber, jrundriss d. roman. Phil. (ii. pp. 567 seq.).
RAOUL ROCHETTE, DÉSIRÉ (1790-1854), French archaeo-ogist, was bom on the 9th of March 1790 at St Amand in the iepartment of Cher, and received his education at Bourges, tie was made professor of history in the Collège de Louis-le-3rand at Paris (1813) and in the Sorbonne (1817). His Histoire critique de rétablissement des colonies grecques (4 vols., [815) is now out of date. He was superintendent of antiquities in the Bibliothèque at Paris (1819-48), and professor of archaeology at the Bibliothèque (from 1826), a result of which may be seen in his Cours d'archéologie (1828). In 1829 appeared his Monuments i)iédits} a work of great value at the time. Still valuable are his Peintures inédites (1836) and his Peintures de Pompêi(1844). He contributed to the Annali of the Roman Institute, the Journal des savants and the Académie des inscriptions. At his death on the 3rd of July 1854 Raoul Rochette was perpetual secretary of the Academy of Fine Arts and a corresponding member of most of the learned societies in Europe.
RAOULT, FRANÇOIS MARIE (1830-1901), French chemist, was born at Fournes, in the Département du Nord, on the 10th of May 1830. He became aspirant répétiteur at the lycée of Rheims in 1853, and after holding several intermediate positions was appointed in 1862 to the professorship of chemistry in Sens lycée, where he prepared the thesis on electromotive force which gained him his doctor’s degree at Paris in the following year. In 1867 he was put in charge of the chemistry classes at Grenoble, and three years later he succeeded to the chair of chemistry, which he held until his death on the 1st of April 1901. Raoult’s earliest researches were physical in character, being largely concerned with the phenomena of the voltaic cell, and later there was a period when more purely chemical questions engaged his attention. But his name is best known in connexion with the work on solutions, to which he devoted the last two decades of his life. His first paper on the depression of the freezing-points of liquids by the presence of substances dissolved in them was published in i878;and continued investigation and experiment with various solvents, such as benzene and acetic acid, in addition to water, led him' to believe in a simple relation between the molecular weights of the substances and the freezing-point of the solvent, which he expressed as the “ loi générale de la congélation,” that if one molecule of a substance be dissolved in 100 molecules of any given solvent, the temperature of solidification of the latter will be lowered by 0-63° C. (See, however, the article Solution.) .Another relation at which he worked was that the diminution in the vapour-pressure of a solvent, caused by dissolving a substance in it, is proportional to the molecular weight of the substance dissolved—at least when the solution is dilute. These two generalizations not only afforded a new method of determining the molecular weights of substances, but have also been utilized by J. H. van’t Hoff and W. Ostwald, among other chemists, in support of the hypothesis of electrolytic dissociation in solutions. An account of Raoult’s life and work was given by Professor van’t Hoff in a memorial lecture delivered before the London Chemical Society on the 26th of March 1902.
RAOUX, JEAN (1677-1734), French painter, was born at Montpellier in 1677. After the usual course of training he became a member of the Academy in 1717 as an historical painter. His reputation had been previously established by the credit of decorations executed during his three years in Italy on the palace of Giustiniani Sclini at Venice, and by some easel paintings, the Four Ages of Man (National Gallery), commissioned by the grand prior of Vendôme. To this latter class of subject Raoux devoted himself, nor did he even paint portraits except in character. The list of his works is a long series of sets of the Seasons, of the Hours, of the Elements, or of those scenes of amusement and gallantry in the representation of which he was immeasurably surpassed by his younger rival Watteau. After his stay in England (1720) he lived much in the Temple, where he decorated several rooms. He died in Paris in 1734. His best pupils were Chevalier and Montdidier. His works, of which there is a poor specimen in the Louvre, were much engraved by Poilly, Moyreau, Dupuis, &c.
RAPALLO, a seaport and winter resort of Liguria, Italy, in the province of Genoa. Pop. (1901) 5839 (town); 10,343 (commune). It occupies a beautiful and well-sheltered situation on the east side of the Gulf of Rapallo, i8£ m. E. by S. from Genoa by rail. It has a fine church, a medieval castle (now used as a prison) and a Roman Bridge, known as “ Hannibal’s Bridge.” On the hills above the town is situated the
church and abbey of the Madonna de Montallegro, whose miraculous picture attracts pilgrims from all parts of Italy. Olives and other fruit are grown, and a brisk trade is done in olive oil. A mile to the south is Santa Margherita Ligure (pop. 7051), another winter resort, with a large 16th-century church. Both places arc also frequented for sea-bathing in summer. Lace is made, while the men go in May to the coral fisheries off the Sardinian coast. To the south again is the small seaport of Portofino (the Roman Portus Ddphini) under the south-east extremity of the promontory of Portofino (2010 ft.). On the way from S. Margherita to Portofino is the suppressed monastery of Cervara, in which Francis I. of France was confined after the battle of Pavia on his way to Madrid. At all these places arc beautiful villas.
RAPE (Lat. rapum or rapa, turnip), in botany.—Several forms of plants included in the genus Brassica are cultivated for the oil which is present in their ripe seeds. The one most extensively grown for this purpose is known as colza, rape or coleseed, in Germany as Raps (Brassica napus, var. oleifera): its seeds contain from 30 to 45% of oil. The leaves are glaucous and smooth like those of a swede turnip. For a seed-crop rape is sown in July or early August in order that the plants may be strong enough to pass the winter uninjured. The young plants are thinned out to a width of 6 or 8 in. apart, and afterwards kept clean by hoeing. The foliage may be eaten down by sheep early in autumn, without injuring it for the production of a crop of seed. In spring the horse and hand hoe must be used, and the previous application of 1 cwt. or 2 cwt. of guano will add to the productiveness of the crop. On good soil and in favourable seasons the yield sometimes reaches to 40 bushels per acre. The haulm and husks are either used for litter or burned, and the ashes spread upon the land. It makes good fuel for clay-burning. There is a “ summer ” variety of colza which is sown in April and ripens its seed in the same year. It docs not yield so much oil as the “ winter ” kind, but it will grow on soil in poorer condition. Neither of these is much grown in Great Britain for the production of oil, but the “ winter ” variety is very extensively grown as green food for sheep. For this purpose it is generally sown at short intervals throughout the summer to provide a succession of fodder. It is peculiarly adapted for peaty soils, and is accordingly a favourite crop in the fen lands of England, and on recently reclaimed mosses and moors elsewhere. Its growth is greatly stimulated by the ashes resulting from the practice of paring and burning. Its highly nutritious leaves and stems are usually consumed by folding the sheep upon it where it grows, there is no green food upon which they fatten faster. Occasionally it is carried to the homestead, and used with other forage in carrying out the system of soiling cattle.
The wild form Brassica campcstris, the wild coleseed, colza or kohlsaat, of the fields of England and many parts of Europe, is sometimes cultivated on the European continent for its seed, which, however, is inferior in value to rape as an oil-yielding product.
In addition to the previously mentioned rape, a variety of another species (or subspecies) of Brassica, namely, Brassica rapaf var. oleifera (Riibsen in Germany), is grown for its oil-yielding seeds. The leaves in a young state are not glaucous, but sap-green in colour and rough, being very similar to those of the turnip, to which the plant is closely related. Both winter and summer varieties are grown; they are rarely cultivated in Britain. The oil is similar to that in the true colza seeds but the plants do not yield so much per acre as the latter: they are, however, hardier and more adapted for cultivation on poor sandy soils.
RAPE (from Lat. rapere, to seize), in law, the crime of having carnal knowledge of a woman by a man, not her husband, forcibly and unlawfully against her will. Under the Mosaic law, rape was punished with death, if the damsel was betrothed to another man, and with a fine of fifty shekels if not so betrothed, while in this case, also, She was to be the wife of the ravisher all the days of his life (Deut. xxii. 25). The Roman
civil law    punished    rape    with death and confiscation of    goods
(Cod. L.    IX. tit.    13).    In England, under the Saxon    law—
adopted, probably, from a Teutonic code—death was also the penalty, but under the Normans this was changed to the loss of both eyes and castration; this punishment remained in force until after the time of Bracton (de Corond, f. 147). The statute of Westminster 1.(1275) reduced the offence to a trespass, with a penalty of two years’ imprisonment and a fine at the king’s will. This lenity, it'is said, produced terrible consequences, and, accordingly, the statute of Westminster II. (1285) again declared the offence- a felony, with, however, benefit of    clergy.    This    was the state of the law until    1575,
when the    punishment was made more severe by taking    away
the benefit of clergy. The offence remained capital until the Offences against the Person Act 1861, by which and subsequent amending acts it is now regulated. The present punishment is penal servitude for life or for not less than three years or imprisonment with or without hard labour for not over two years.
The law of England (differing in this respect from the civil law) regards as immaterial whether the woman is chaste or unchaste, married or single, provided the offence has been committed forcibly and without her consent. The offence is complete if consent is extorted by means of threats of death or immediate bodily harm, by fraud or by false pretences or representation, such as the impersonation of a woman’s husband (Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885).
Since the passing of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885, it is a felony, entailing the same punishment as rape, to have carnal knowledge of a girl under 13 years, whether she consent or not. Between 13 and 16 years of age it is a criminal offence punishable by two years’ imprisonment, whether consent is given or not, and even if there be solicitation; but if the jury is satisfied that the person charged has reasonable cause to believe the girl to be over 16 years, the accused is entitled to be acquitted. Prosecution must be within three months of the offence. The administration of any drug or matter, with intent, by producing stupor, to facilitate the accomplishment of the crime, is an offence punishable by two years’ imprisonment. On indictment for rape there may be an acquittal on the actual charge, but a conviction either of the attempt or of an indecent assault.
In charges of rape, from the nature of the offence, the important witness is the woman, and it is essential, apart from medical evidence (see Medical Jurisprudence), that her story be corroborated by evidence implicating the accused. The following points have, of necessity, to be considered. (1) As to the general credibility of the witness and how far her story is to be believed; evidence, therefore, may be given to show that she is of immoral character. (2) As to whether she has made complaint immediately after the alleged outrage and to whom. (3) As to the place where the outrage was alleged to have been committed and the possibility of her being heard if she cried out.
In the United States, rape is universally treated as a felony, and the punishment is either death, imprisonment for life, or imprisonment for a number of years, varying in the different states. In the case of offences against young girls, there is a divergence in the various states as to the age of consent, though the trend of legislation has been to raise it. In North and South Carolina, and Georgia, the age of consent is as low as 10 years, and in Kentucky and Louisiana, 12 years. In nineteen states the age of consent is 14 years. In one (Texas) 15 years. In six, it is 16 years. In Wyoming, New York, Colorado and Kansas it is as high as 18 years.
The essential facts to be proven in order to constitute this crime are the same as in England, but in many of the states the uncorroborated evidence of the woman is sufficient to sustain a conviction. This is so in California, Arizona, Idaho, Missouri, Kentucky, Michigan, Illinois, Oklahoma, &c. [1904; Brenlon v. Territory, 78 Pac. Rep. 83]. In New York corroboration is required [Penal Code §283]. In Nebraska also evidence corroborating the prosecutrix is necessary [1907; Burk v. State, H2 N.W. Rep. 573]. In Texas it is no defence for accused to prove that he believed the prosecutrix to be over 15 years of age, the age of consent [1907; Robertson v. State, 102 So. W. Rep. 1130], and the crime is punishable with death [1903; Reyna v. State, 75 So. W. Rep. 25], as also apparently it is in the Indian country [17.5. v. Partellot 48 Fed. R. 670 U.S. Rev. Stats. § 5345], also in Alabama [Criminal Code, § 5444].
In Hawaii there is no age of consent for rape, which is punishable by $1000 fine and imprisonment at hard labour for life; the carnal knowledge of females under 10 years is punishable with death or imprisonment for life [Rev. L. 1905, §§ 2927, 2928]. In Porto Rico the'age of consent is 14 years and the punishment not less than five years [Pen. Code 1902^255].
Authorities.—Stephen, Digest of Criminal Law\ Russell, On Crimes: Archbold, Criminal Pleading; and for American law, May, The Law of Crimes, and Clark and Marshall, Treatise on the Law of Crimes.
RAPE, a territorial division of the county of Sussex, England, formerly used for various administrative purposes. There are now six of these divisions, Hastings, Pevensey, Lewes, Bramber, Arundel and Chichester, but the latter two apparently formed a single rape at the date of the compilation of Domesday Book. The word, which in England is peculiar to Sussex, is usually said to be closely related to the Icelandic hrepp, a small territorial division which in most, but not in all, cases is identical with the parish; but this explanation, which is unsatisfactory on institutional grounds, has also been declared impossible for philological reasons. As an alternative explanation it has been suggested, that “ rape ” is an early form of the word “ rope ”; and that the divisions were so called because they were measured and allotted by the rope. Some confirmation of this is to be found in the words of the Norman chronicler, Dudo of St Quentin, who states that Rollo in distributing Neustria “ suis fidelibus terrain funiculo divisit ” (J. P. Migne, Patrologiae Cursus compleluSy tom. cxli. p. 652). It is possible that the rapes represent the shires of the ancient kingdom of Sussex, especially as in the 12th century they had sheriffs of their own. But there is no evidence of the existence of the rape before the Norman Conquest, except such as may be gathered from Domesday Book, and this is far from convincing. After the Conquest each rape had its own lord, and all the land within it, save that which belonged to the king or to ecclesiastical tenants, was held of the lord. Thus the rape as a lordship only differed from other honours and baronies by the fact that the lands of its knights were not scattered over England, but lay together in a continuous tract. In form the rapes were parallel bands of land running north and south, and each of them contained a different number of hundreds. The place in which the lord’s castle was situate ultimately gave its name to the rape; but in Domesday Book the rapes are often described by the names of their lords, and this is always so in that work in the case of Bramber, which belonged to William de Briouze (rapam Willelmi de Braoza).
See the Victoria County History, Sussex, vol. i.; New English Dictionary; and M. A. Lower, History of Sussex (Lewes, 1870).
(G. J. T.)
RAPE OIL, an important fatty oil, known also as “ sweet oil,” either expressed or extracted from the crushed seeds of cultivated varieties of the cruciferous genus Bra$$ica> the parent form of the whole apparently being the wild navew, B. campes-Iris. Under the general name “ rape oil ” is included the produce of several plants having distinct and fairly constant characters, and one of these oils—colza (q.v.)—is a very well-known commercial variety. In Germany, where the production of rape oil centres, two principal oil-seeds—rape and Rubsen—are well recognized. * (See Rape.)
The oil yielded by these seeds is, in physical and chemical properties, practically the same, the range of fluctuations not being greater than would be found in the oil of any specific seed under similar varying conditions of production; the winter varieties of all the seeds are more productive than the summer varieties. Newly pressed rape oil has a dark sherry colour with, at first, scarcely any perceptible smell; but after resting a short time the oil deposits an abundant mucilaginous slime, and by taking up oxygen it acquires a peculiar disagreeable odour and an acrid taste. Refined by the ordinary processes (see Oils), the oil assumes a clear golden yellow colour. In specific gravity it ranges between 0-9112 and 0-9117 in the raw state, and from 0.9127 to 0.9136 when refined; the solidifying point is from “4° to -6° C.
The principal uses of rape oil are for lubrication and lighting; but since the introduction of mineral oils for both these purposes the importance of rape has considerably decreased. It is but little employed in soap-making, as it saponifies with difficulty and yields only an indifferent product. In Germany it is very considerably used as a salad oil under the name of Schmalzol, being for that purpose freed from its biting taste by being mixed with starch, heated till the starch is carbonized, and filtered after the oil has cooled. The offensive taste of rape oil may also be removed by treatment with a small proportion of sweet spirit of nitre (nitrous ether). In the East Indies rape oil and its equivalents, known under various names, are the most important of oils for native use. They are largely consumed as food instead of ghi under the name of ** metah ” or sweet oil, but for all other purposes the same substance is known as “ kurwah ” or bitter oil. Most natives prefer it for the preparation of their curries and other hot dishes. Rape oil is the subject of extensive adulteration, principally with the cheaper hemp oil, rosin oil and mineral oils. These sophistications can be most conveniently detected, first by taste and next by saponification, rosin oil and mineral oil remaining unsaponified, hemp oil giving a greenish soap, while rape oil yields a soap with a yellow tinge. With concentrated sulphuric acid, fuming nitric acid, nitrous acid, and other reagents rape oil gives also characteristic colorations; but these are modified according to the degree of purity of the oil itself. The presence of sulphur in rape and other cruciferous oils also affords a ready means for their identification. Lead plaster (emplastrum lithargyri) boiled in rape oil dissolves, and, sulphide of lead being formed, the oil becomes brown or black. Other lead compounds give the same black coloration from the formation of sulphide.
RAPHAEL (Hebrew “ God heals ”), an angel who in human disguise and under the name of Azarias (“ Yahweh helps ”) accompanies Tobias in his adventurous journey and conquers the demon Asmodaeus (Book of Tobit). He is said (Tob. xii. 15) to be “ one of the seven holy angels [archangels] which present the prayers of the saints and go in before the glory of the Holy One.” In the Book of Enoch (c. xx.) Raphael is “ the angel of the spirits of men,” and it is his business to <£ heal the earth which the angels have defiled.” In later Midrash Raphael appears as the angel commissioned to put down the evil spirits that vexed the sons of Noah with plagues and sicknesses after the Flood, and he it was who taught men the use of simples and furnished materials for the “ Book of Noah,” the earliest treatise on materia medica.
RAPHAEL SANZIO (1483-1520), the great Italian painter, was the son of Giovanni Sanzio or Santi, a painter of some repute in the ducal city of Urbino, situated among the Apennines on the borders of Tuscany and Umbria.@@1 For many years both before and after the birth of Raphael (6th of April 1483) the city of Urbino was one of the chief centres in Italy of intellectual and artistic activity, thanks to its highly cultured rulers, Duke Fedcrigo II. of Montefeltro and his son Guidobaldo, who succeeded him in 1482,@@2 the year before Raphael was born. Giovanni Santi was a welcome guest at this miniature but splendid court, and the rich treasures which the palace contained, familiar to Raphael from his earliest years, were a very important item among the various influences which formed and fostered his early love for art. It may not perhaps be purely fanciful to trace Raphael’s boyish admiration of the oil-paintings of Jan Van Eyck and Justus of Ghent in the miniature-like care and delicacy with which some of his earliest works, such as the “ Apollo and Marsyas,” were executed.
Though Raphael lost his father at the age of eleven, yet to him he certainly owed a great part of that early training which enabled him to produce paintings of apparently mature beauty when he was scarcely twenty years of age. The altar-piece painted by Giovanni for the church of Gradara, and a fresco, now preserved in the Santi house@@3 at Urbino, are clearly prototypes of some of Raphael’s most graceful
@@@1    See Pungileoni, Elogio Storico di Raffaello (Urbino, 1829); for a valuable account of Raphael’s family and his early life, see also, Id., Vita di Giov. Santi (Urbino, 1822), and Campori, Notizie e Documenti per Iq, Vita di Giov. Santi e di Raffaello (Modena, 1870).
@@@2    See an interesting account of the court of Urbino by Delabordc, Etudes sur les B. Arts .. -en Italie {Paris, 1864), voi. i. p. 145.
@@@3    The house of Giovanni Santi, where Raphael was born, still exists at Urbino in the Contrada del Monte, and, being the property of the municipality, is now safe from destruction.
paintings of the Madonna and Child. On the death of his father in 1494 Raphael*vf as left in the care of his stepmother (his own mother, Magia Ciarla, having diedin i49i)and of his uncle, a priest called Bartolomeo.@@1
First or Perugian Period.—In what year Raphael was apprenticed to Perugino and how the interval before that was spent are matters of doubt. Vasari's statement that he was sent to Perugia during his father's lifetime is certainly a mistake. On the whole it appears most probable that he did not enter Perugino's studio till the end of 1499, as during the four or five years before that Perugino was mostly absent from his native city.@@2 The so-called Sketch Book of Raphael in the academy of Venice contains studies apparently from the cartoons of some of Perugino's Sistine frescoes, possibly done as practice in drawing.
This celebrated collection of thirty drawings, now framed or
Creserved in portfolios, bears signs of having once formed a bound ook, and has been supposed to be a sketch-book filled by Raphael during his Perugian apprenticeship. Many points, however, make this tempting hypothesis very improbable; the fact that the drawings were not all originally on leaves of the same size, and the miscellaneous character of the sketches—varying much both in style and merit of execution—seem to show that it is a collection of studies by different hands, made and bound together by some subsequent owner, and may contain but very few drawings by Raphael himself.@@*
Before long Raphael appears to have been admitted to share in the execution of paintings by his master; and his touch can with more or less certainty be traced in some of Perugino’s panels which were executed about 1502. Many of those who, like Crowe and Cavalcaselle, adopt the earlier date of Raphael's apprenticeship, believe that his hand is visible in the execution of the beautiful series of frescoes by Perugino in the Sala del Cambio, dated 1500; as does also M. Muntz in his excellent Raphael, sa'vie, Paris, 1881, in spite of his accepting the end of 1499 as the period of Raphael's first entering Perugino's studio, —two statements almost impossible to reconcile. Considering that Raphael was barely seventeen when these frescoes were painted, it is hardly reasonable to attribute the finest heads to his hand; nor did he at an early age master the difficulties of fresco buono. The Resurrection of Christ in the Vatican and the Diotalevi Madonna in the Berlin Museum are the principal pictures by Perugino in parts of which the touch of Raphael appears to be visible, though any real certainty on this point is unattainable.@@4
About 1502 Raphael began to execute independent works; four pictures for churches at Citta di Castello were probably the earliest of these, and appear to have been painted in the years 1502-4. The first is a gild-banner painted on one side with the Trinity, and below, kneeling figures of S. Sebastian and S. Rocco; on the reverse is a Creation of Eve, very like Perugino in style, but possessing more grace and breadth of treatment. These are still in the church of S. Trinita.@@5 Also
for Citti di Castello were the coronation of S. Niccolo Tolentino, now destroyed, though studies for it exist at Oxford and Lille (Gaz. d. B. Arts, 1878, i. p. 48), and the Crucifixion, now in the Dudley collection, painted for the church of S. Domenico, and signed RAPHAEL VRBINAS P. It is a panel 8 ft.6 in. high by 5 ft. 5 in. wide, and contains noble figures of the Virgin, St John, St Jerome and St Mary Magdalene. The fourth painting executed for this town, for the church of S. Francesco, is the exquisitely beautiful and highly finished Sposalizio, now in the Brera at Milan, signed and dated RAPHAEL VRBINAS MDIIII. This is closely copied both in composition and detail from Perugino's painting of the same subject now at Caen, but is far superior to it in sweetness of expression and grace of attitude. The Temple of Jerusalem, a domed octagon with outer ambulatory in Perugino's picture, is reproduced with slight alterations by Raphael, and the attitudes and grouping of the figures are almost exactly the same in both. The Con-nestabile Madonna is one of Raphael's finest works, painted during his Perugian period; it is a round panel; the motive, the Virgin reading a book of hours, is a favourite one with him, as it was with his father Giovanni. This lovely picture was lost to Perugia in 1871, when Count Connestabile sold it to the emperor of Russia for £13,200.
Second or Florentine Period, 1504-1508.— From 1504 to 1508 Raphael's life was very stirring and active. In the first half of 1504 he visited Urbino, where he painted two small panels for Duke Guidobaldo, the St George and the St Michael of the Louvre. His first and for him momentous visit to Florence was made towards the end of 1504, when he presented himself with a warm letter of recommendation@@* from his patroness Joanna della Rovere to the gonfaloniere Pier Soderini. In Florence Raphael was kindly received, and, in spite of his youth (being barely of age), was welcomed as an equal by the majority of those great artists who at that time had raised Florence to a pitch of artistic celebrity far above all other cities of the world. At the time of his arrival the whole of artistic Italy was being excited to enthusiasm by the cartoons of the battle of Anghiari and the war with Pisa, on which Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo were then devoting their utmost energies. To describe the various influences under which Raphael came, and the many sources, from which he drank in stores of artistic knowledge, would be to give a complete history of Florentine art in the 15th century.@@7 With astonishing rapidity he shook off the mannerisms of Perugino, and put one great artist after another under contribution for some special power of drawing, beauty of colour, or grace of composition in which each happened to excel. Nor was it from painters only that Raphael acquired his enlarged field of knowledge and rapidly growing powers. Sculptors like Ghiberti and Donatello must be numbered among those whose works helped to develop his new-born style.@@8 The Carmine frescoes of Masaccio and Masolino taught this eager student long-remembered lessons of methods of dramatic expression.@@9 Among his contemporaries it was especially Signorelli and Michelangelo who taught him the importance of precision of line and the necessity of a thorough knowledge of the human form.@@10 From da Vinci he learnt subtleties of modelling and soft beauty of expression,@@11 from Fra Bartolommeo nobility of composition and skilful treatment of drapery in dignified folds.@@12 The friendship between Raphael and the last of these was very close and lasted for many years. The architect Baccio d'Agnolo was another of his special friends, at whose house the young painter enjoyed social intercourse
@@@*The administration of Giovanni Santi’s will occasioned many painful family disputes and even appeals to law; see Pungileoni, El. Star, di Raffaello.
@@@2 Crowe and Cavalcaselle (Life of Raphael, vol. i., London, 1882) adopt the notion that Raphael went to Perugia in 1495, but the reasons with which they support this view appear insufficient.
@@@*    See an excellent critical examination of the Sketch Book by Morelli, Italian Masters in German Galleries, translated by Mrs Richter (London, 1882); according to Morelli, only two drawings are by Raphael. Schmarsow, “ Raphael's Skizzenbuch in Venedig,” in Preusstsche Jahrbiicher, xlviii. pp. 122-149 (Berlin, 1881), takes the opposite view. But Kahl, Das venezianische Skizzenbuch (Leipzig, 1882), follows Morelli’s opinion, which has been generally adopted.
@@@4 Parts of Perugino's beautiful triptych of the Madonna, with the archangels Raphael and Michael, painted for the Certosa near Pavia and now in the National Gallery of London, have beei>attributed to Raphael, but with little^ reason. Perugino’s grand altar-piece at Florence of the Assumption of the Virgin shows that he was quite capable of painting figures equal in beauty and delicacy to the St Michael of the Certosa triptych. See Frizzioni, VArte Italiana nella Gal. Nat. di Londra (Florence, 1880).
@@@*    For an account of processional banners painted by distinguished artists, see Mariotti, Lettere pittoriche Perugine, p. 76 seq.
@@@This letter, which still exists, was sold in Paris in 1856, and is now in private hands.
@@@7 See Minghetti, “ I Maestri di Raffaello,” in the Nuova Antologia, 1st August 1881.
@@@ See his sketch of St George and the Dragon, in the Uffizi, largely taken from Donatello's pedestal relief outside Or San Michele.
@@@See his cartoon of St Paul preaching at Athens (Victoria and Albert Museum).
@@@10    See many of his life-studies, especially the one he sent to Albert Dilrer, now at Vienna.
@@@11    See the portrait of Maddalena Doni in the Pitti.
@@@12    See the Madonna del Baldacchino in the Pitti.
with a large circle of the chief artists of Florence, and probably learned from him much that was afterwards useful in his practice as an architect.
The transition in Raphael's style from his first or Perugian to his second or Florentine manner is well shown in the large picture of the Coronation of the Virgin painted for Maddalena degli Oddi, now in the Vatican, one of the most beautiful that he ever produced, and especially remarkable for its strong religions sentiment—in this respect a great contrast to the paintings of his last or Roman manner which hang near it. The exquisite grace of the angel musicians and the beauty of the faces show signs of his short visit to Florence, while the general formality of the composition and certain details, such as the fluttering ribands of the angels, recall peculiarities of Perugino and of Pinturicchio, with whose fine picture of the same subject hung close by it is interesting to compare it. Raphael's painting, though by far the more beautiful of the two, is yet inferior to that of Pinturicchio in the composition of the whole; an
awkward horizontal fine divides the upper group of the Coronation from that below, the apostles standing round the Virgin's tomb, filled with roses and lilies (Dante, Par. xxiii. 73), while the older Perugian has skilfully united the two groups by a less formal arrangement of the figures. The predella of this masterpiece of Raphael is also in the Vatican; some of its small paintings, especially that of the Annunciation to the Virgin, are interesting as showing his careful study of the rules of perspective.@@1 Several prepara
tory sketches for this picture exist: fig. i shows a study, now at Lille, for the two principal figures, Christ setting the crown on His mother’s head (see fig. 2). It is drawn from two youths in the ordinary dress of the time; and it is interesting to compare it with his later studies from the nude, many of which are for figures which in the future picture were to be draped. It was at Florence, as Vasari says, that Raphael began serious life studies, not only from nude models but also by making careful anatomical drawings from dissected corpses and from skeletons.
His first visit to Florence lasted only a few months; in 1505 he was again in Perugia painting his first fresco, the Trinity and Saints for the Camaldoli monks of San Severo, now a mere wreck from injury and restorations. The date MDV and the signature were added later, probably in 1521. Part of this work was left incomplete by the painter, and the fresco was finished in 1521 (after his death) by his old master Perugino.@@2  It was probably earlier than this that Raphael visited Siena and assisted Pinturicchio with sketches for his Piccolomini frescoes.@@3 The Madonna of S. Antonio was also finished in isos, but was probably begun before the Florentine visit.@@4 A
record of his visit to Siena exists in a sketch of the antique marble group of the Three Graces, therein the cathedral library,
from which, not long afterwards, he painted the small panel of the same subject now in Lord Dudley’s collection.
In 1506 Raphael was again in Urbino, where he painted for the duke another picture of St George, which was sent to England as a present to Henry VII. The bearer of this and other gifts was Guidobaldo’s ambassador, the accomplished Baldassare Castiglione (q.v.), a friend of Raphael, whose noble portrait of him is in the Louvre. At the court of Duke Guidobaldo the painter’s ideas appear to have been led into a more secular direction, and to this stay in Urbino probably belong the Dudley Graces, the miniature “ Knight’s Dream of Duty and Pleasure ” in the National Gallery (London),@@6 and also the “ Apollo and Marsyas,” sold in' 1882 by Morris Moore to the Louvre for £10,000, a most lovely little panel, painted with almost Flemish minuteness, rich in colour, and graceful in arrangement.@@6
Towards the end of 1506 Raphael returned to Florence, and there (before 1508) produced a large number of his finest works, carefully finished, and for the most part wholly the work of his own hand. Several of these are signed and dated, but the date is frequently very doubtful, owing to his custom of using Roman numerals, introduced among the sham Arabic embroidered on the borders of dresses, so that the I.’s after the V. are not always distinguishable from the straight lines of the ornament. The following is a list of some of his chief paintings of this period: the “ Madonna del Gran Duca ” (Pitti); “ Madonna del Giardino,” 1506 (Vienna); “ Holy Family with the Lamb,” 1506 or 1507 (Madrid); the “ Ansidei Madonna,” 1506 or 1507 (National Gallery); the Borghese “Entombment,” 1507; Lord Cowper’s “Madonna” at Panshanger, 1508; “La bella Giardiniera,”
@@@1    While at Florence he is said to have taught the science of perspective to, his friend Fra Bartolommeo, who certainly gave his young instructor valuable lessons on composition in return.
@@@2    The fresco of the Last Supper, dated 1505, in the refectory of S. Onofrio at Florence, is not now claimed as a work of Raphael’s, in spite of a signature partly introduced by the restorer.
@@@* Raphael probably had no hand in the actual execution of the paintings; see Schmarsow, Raphael und Pinturicchio in Siena (Stuttgart, 1880), and Milanesi.in his edition of Vasari, iii. p. 515 seq., appendix to life of Pinturicchio.
@@@4 This fine altar-piece, with many large figures, is now the property of the heirs of the duke of Ripalta, and is stored in the basement of the National Gallery, London.
@@@5 This missal-like painting is about 7 in. square; it was bought in 1847 for 1000 guineas. The National Gallery also possesses its cartoon, in brown ink, pricked for transference.
@@@6 In spite of some adverse opinions, frequently expressed with extreme virulence, the genuineness of this^ little gem can hardly be doubted by any one who carefully studies it without bias. ^ Sketches for it at Venice and in the Uffizi also appear to bear the impress of Raphael’s manner. See Delaborde, Études sur les B. Arts . . . en Italie, i. p. 236; Gruyer, Raphael et Vantiquité, ii. p. 421; Eitel-berger, Rafaël s Apollo und Marsyas (Vienna, i860); Batté, Le Raphaël de M. Moore (Paris, 1859); and also various pamphlets on it by its former owner, Mr. Morris Moore.
1508 (Louvre); the “ Eszterhazy Madonna,” probably the same year; as well as the “ Madonna del Cardellino ” (Uffizi), the “ Tempi Madonna ” (Munich), the “ Colonna Madonna ” (Berlin), the “ Bridgewater Madonna ” (Bridgewater House), and the “ Orleans Madonna ” (due d’Aumale’s collection). The “ Ansidei Madonna ” was bought in 1884 for the National Gallery from the duke of Marlborough for £70,000,. more than three times the highest price ever before given for a picture.@@1  It was painted for the Ansidei family of Perugia as an altar-piece in the church of S. Fiorenzo, and is a work of the highest beauty in colour, well preserved and very large in scale. The Virgin with veiled head is seated on a throne, supporting the Infant with one hand and holding a book in the other. Below stands S. Niccolo da Tolentino, for whose altar it was painted; he holds a book and a crozier, and is clad in jewelled mitre and green cope, under which appear the alb and cassock. On the other side is the Baptist, in red mantle and camel’s-hair tunic, holding a crystal cross. The rich jewellery in this picture is painted with Flemish-like minuteness. On the border of the1  Virgin’s robe is a date, formerly read as MDV by Passavant and others; it really is MDVI or MDVII. If the later date is the true one, the picture was probably begun a year or two before. A. favourite method of grouping his Holy Families is that seen imthe “ Madonna del Cardellino ” and the “ Bella Giar-diniera,” in which the main lines form a pyramid. This arrangement is also used in the “ Madonna del Giardino ” and in the larger group, including St Joseph and St Elizabeth, known as the “ Canigiani Holy Family, ” now at Munich, one of the least graceful of all Raphael’s compositions. The “ Entombment of Christ,” now in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, was painted during a visit to Perugia in 1507 for Lady Atalanta Baglioni, in memory of the death of her brave and handsome but treacherous son Grifonetto, who was killed in 1500 by his enemies the Oddi party.@@2 The many studies and preliminary sketches@@8 for this important picture which exist in various collections show that it cost Raphael an unusual amount of thought and labour in its composition, and yet it is quite one of his least successful paintings, especially in colour. It is, however, much injured by scraping and repainting, and appears not to be wholly by his hand. The “ Madonna del Baldacchino,” one of the finest compositions of the Florentine period, owing much to Fra Bartolommeo, is also unsatisfactory in execution; being left unfinished by Raphael, it was completed by Ridolfo Ghirlandajo, by whom the ungraceful angels of the upper part and the canopy were wholly executed, and even designed. It was painted for the Dei family as an altar-piece for their chapel in S. Spirito, Florence. The “ St Catherine ” of the National Gallery was probably painted in 1507; its cartoon, pricked for transference, is in the Louvre. In colouring it much resembles parts of the Borghese “ Entombment,” being quiet and grey in tone. To the Florentine period belong some of his finest portraits, and it is especially in these that da Vinci’s influence appears. The portraits of Angelo Doni and his wife Maddalena (Pitti) are vivid and carefully executed paintings, and the unknown lady with hard features (now in the Uffizi) is a masterpiece of noble realism and conscientious finish. The Czartoriski portrait, a graceful effeminate-looking youth with long hair and tapering hands, now moved to Cracow, is probably a work of this period; though worthy to rank with Raphael’s finest portraits, its authenticity has been doubted. Very similar in style is the Hcrrenhausen portrait, once attributed to Giovanni Bellini, but an undoubted work of Raphael, in his second manner; it also represents a young man with long hair, close-shaven chin, a wide cloth hat and black dress, painted in half-length. The so-called Portrait of Raphael by himself at Hampton Court is a very beautiful work, glowing with light and colour, which may possibly be a genuine picture of about’1506. It represents a pleasant-looking youth with turned-up nose, not bearing the remotest resemblance to Raphael, except the long hair and black cap common to nearly all* the portraits of this time.@@11  A fine but much-restored portrait of Raphael by himself, painted at Florence, exists in the Uffizi; it represents him at a very early age, and was probably painted during the early part of his stay in Florence.
@@@1 It is engraved at p. 53, vol. ii., of Dohme, Kunst und Kiinstler dcs Mittelalters (Leipzig, 1878), a work which has many good reproductions of Raphaef’s paintings and sketches.
@@@1 See Symonds, Sketches in Italy, the chapter on Perugia, mainly taken from the contemporary chronicle of Matarazzo.
@@@* These show that Raphael at first intended to paint a Deposition from the Cross, and afterwards altered his scheme into the Entombment; an excess of study and elaboration partly account for the shortcomings of this picture.
Third or Roman Period, 1508-1520.—In 1508 Raphael was painting several important pictures in Florence; in September of that year we find him settled in Rome, from a letter addressed in the warmest terms of affectionate admiration to Francxa, to whom he sent a sketch for his “ Adoration of the Shepherds,” and promised to send his own portrait in return for that which Francia had given him.@@ Raphael was invited to Rome by his fellow-citizen (not relation, as Vasari says) Bramante, who was then occupied in the erection of the new church of St Peter, the foundation-stone of which had been laid by Julius II. on the 18th of April 1506. At this time the love of the popes for art had already attracted to Rome a number of the chief artists of Tuscany, Umbria and North Italy, among whom were Michelangelo, Signorelli, Perugino, Pinturicchio, Lorenzo Lotto, Peruzzi, Sodoma, and many others, and it was among this brilliant assembly that Raphael, almost at once, took a leading position.@@ Thanks to Bramante's friendly intervention, Julius
II. (Della Rovere) soon became Raphael's most zealous patron and friend, as did also the rich bankers Agostino Chigi (the Rothschild of his time) and Bindo Altoviti, whose portrait, at the age of twenty, now at Munich, is one of the most beautiful that Raphael ever produced.
A series of rooms in the Vatican, over the Appartamenti Borgia, were already decorated with frescoes by Bonfigli,
Perugino, Piero della Francesca, Andrea del Castagno, Signorelli and Sodoma; but so rapidly had the taste of the time changed that Julius II. decided to sweep them all away and re-cover the
@@@4 To judge of the authorship of a portrait from internal evidence is especially difficult, as in so many cases the strong individuality of the person represented obscures that of the painter.
@@@4 Malvasia, Felsina pittricc (Bologna, 1678), was the first to publish this letter; see also Miintz, Raphael, sa vie, &e., p. 315 (Paris, 1881). Minghetti (Nuova Antologia, 1883) throws doubt on the date of this letter.
@@@1 Miintz, “ Michel-Ange et Raphael h la cour de Rome,” Gez. des B. Arts, March and April 1882, and Les arts ά la cour des papes, vol. iii. (Paris, 1884)
walls with paintings in the more developed but less truly decorative style of Raphael. It was not without regret that Raphael saw the destruction of this noble series of frescoes. One vault, that of the Stanza deir Incendio, painted by his master Perugino, he saved from obliteration; it still exists, well preserved, a most skilful piece of decorative work; and he also set his pupils to copy a number of portrait-heads in the frescoes of Piero della Francesca before they were destroyed.@@1 Fig. 3 shows the positions of RaphacPs frescoes in the stanze, which, both from tbeir size and method of lighting, are very unsuiled for the reception of these large pictures. The two most important rooms ( A and B) are small, and have an awkward cross-light from opposite windows.@@2
Stanza della Segnatura (papal signature room), painted in 1509-11 (A on fig. 3). The first painting executed by Raphael in the stanze was the so-called Disputa, finished in 1509. It is very unlike the later ones in style, showing the beginning of transition from his Florentine to his "Roman manner”; as a decorative work it is very superior to the other frescoes; the figures are much smaller in scale, as was suited to the very moderate size of the room, and the whole is arranged mainly on one plane, without those strong effects of perspective which are so unsuited to the decorative treatment of a wall-surface. In its religious sentiment, too, it far excels any of the later stanze paintings, retaining much of the sacred character of earlier Florentine and Umbrian art. As a scheme of decoration it appears to have been suggested by some of the early apsidal mosaics. Fig. 4 shows the disposition of its main masses,
which seem to indicate the curved recess of an apse. Gold is largely used, with much richness of effect, while the later purely pictorial frescoes have little or none.t The > subject of this magnificent painting is the hierarchy of the church on earth and its glory in heaven.@@3 The angels in the upper tier and the nude cherubs who carry the books of the Gospels are among the most beautiful figures that Raphael ever painted.^
The painting on the vault of this room is the next in date, and shows further transition towards the " Roman manner.” In his treatment of the whole Raphael has, with much advantage, been partly guided by the painting of Perugino’s vault in the next room (C). Though not without faults, it is a very skilful piece of decora-• tion; the pictures are kept subordinate to the lines of the vault, and their small scale adds greatly to the apparent size uf the whole. A great part of the ground is gilt, marked with mosaic-like squares, a common practice with decorative painters—not intended to deceive the eye, but simply to give a softer texture to the gilt surface by breaking up its otherwise monotonous glare. The principal medallions in each cell of this quadripartite vault are very graceful female figures, representing Theology, Science, Justice, and Poetry. Smaller subjects, some almost miniature-like in scale, are arranged in the intermediate spaces, and each has some special meaning in reference to the medallion it adjoins; some of these are painted in warm monochrome to suggest bas-reliefs. The fine painting of the “ Flaying of Marsyas ” is interesting as showing Raphael's study of antique sculpture: the figure of Marsyas is a copy of a Roman statue, of which several replicas exist. The very beautiful little picture of the " Temptation of Eve ” recalls Albert Durer’s treatment of that subject, though only vaguely. Much mutual admiration existed between Raphael and Diirer: in 1515 Raphael sent the German artist a most masterly life study of two nude male figures (now at Vienna); on it is written in Albert Diirer’s beautiful hand the date and a record of its being a gift from Raphael. It is executed in red chalk, and was a study for two figures in the “ Battle of Ostia ” (see below).
On the wall opposite the Disputa is the so-called School of Athens.@@4 *
In this and the succeeding frescoes all notion of decorative treatment is thrown aside, and Raphael has simply painted a magnificent series of paintings, treated as easel pictures might have been, with but little reference to their architectural surroundings.@@6 The subject of this noble fresco, in contrast to that opposite, is “ Earthly Knowledge,” represented by an assembly of the great philosophers, poets and men of science of ancient Greece. The central figures are Plato and Aristotle, while below and on each side are groups arranged with the most consummate skill, including the whole 11 filosofica famiglia ” of Dante (Infer, iv. 133-144), and a number of other leaders of thought, selected in a way that shows no slight acquaintance with the history of philosophy and science among the ancient Greeks. Many interesting portraits are introduced— Bramante as the aged Archimedes, stooping over a geometrical diagram; a beautiful fair-haired youth on the left is Francesco Maria della Rovere, duke of Urbino; and on the extreme right figures of Raphael himself and Sodoma are introduced (see fig. 5, below). The stately building in which these groups are arranged is taken with modifications from Bramante’s first design for St Peter’s.
Over the window (No. 6 on fig. 3) is a group of poets and musicians on Mount Parnassus, round a central figure of Apollo; it contains many heads of great beauty and fine portraits of Dante and Petrarch. The former, as a theologian, appears also in the Disputa. Oyer The opposite window (No. 5) are graceful figures of the three chief Virtues, and at one side (No. 4) Gregory IX. (a portrait of Julius II.) presenting his volume of decretals to a jurist; beside him is a splendid portrait of Cardinal de’ Medici (afterwards Leo X.) before his face was spoiled by getting too stout. This painting shows the influence of Melozzo da Forli.@@6 On the other side Justinian presents his code to Trebonianus (No. 3); this is inferior in execution, and appears to have been chiefly painted by pupils.
The next room (B), called La Stanza d’Eliodoro, was painted in 1511-14;@@7 it is so called from the fresco (No. 7 in fig. 3) representing the expulsion of Heliadorus from the Temple (2 Macc. iii.),an allusion to the struggles between Louis XII. of France and Julius II. The whole spirit of the subjects in this room is less broad and tolerant than in the first: no pagan ideas are admitted, and its chief motive is the glorification of the pontificate, with insistence on the temporal power. The main incident of this picture is the least successful part of it: the angel visitant on the horse is wanting in dignity, and the animal is poorly drawn, as is also the case with the horses of Attila’s army in the fresco opposite. The group of women and children on the left is, howr ever, very beautiful, and the figures of Julius II. and his attendants are most nobly designed and painted with great vigour. The tall standing figure of Marc Antonio Raimondi, as one of the pope’s bearers, is a marvellous
Eiece of portrait-painting, as is also the next figure who bears is name on a scroll—10 . PETRO . DE . FOLIARIIS . CREMONlN. Behind, Giulio Romano is represented as another papal attendant. This picture was completed in 1512. Over the window (No. 8) is the scene of the Miracle at Bolsena of 1264, when the real presence was proved to a doubting priest by the appearance of blood-stains on the Corporal (see Orvieto). Julius II. is introduced kneeling behind the altar; and the knver spaces on each side of the windows are filled with two groups, that on the left with women, that on the right with officers of the papal guard. The last group is one of the most masterly of all throughout the stanze: eaeh face, a careful portrait, is a marvel of expression and power, and the technical skill with which the w'hole is painted to the utmost degree of finish, almost without any tempera touches, is most wonderful. The next fresco in date (No. 10) is that of the Repulsion of Attila from the walls of Rome by Leo I.^miraculously aided by the apparitions of St Peter and St Paul; it contains another allusion to the papal quarrels with France. It was begun in the lifetime of Julius II., but was only half-finished at the time of his death in 1513; thus it happens that the portrait of his successor, the Medici pope Leo X., appears twice over, first as a cardinal riding behind*the pope, painted before the death of Julius II., and again in the character of S. Leo, instead of the portrait of Julius which Raphael wr as about to paint.@@8 Attila with his savage-looking
@@@    How fine these portrait-heads probably were may be guessed from Piero's magnificent frescoes at Arezzo, in the retro-choir of S. Francesco.
@@@ See Trendelenburg, Über Rafaels Schule von Athen (Berlin, 1843),
Athens ” is comparatively modern.
and Richter (same title) (Heidelberg, 1882); the title 11 School of
@@@    See Brunn, Die Composition der Wandgemälde Raphaels ini Vatican (Berlin), and Gruyer, Lesfresques de Raphael au Vatican (Paris, 1859).
@@@* It need hardly be said that the name Disputa is a misnomer; there could be no dispute among the saints and doctors of the church about so well-established a dogma as the real presence: the monstrance with the Host below and the figure of Christ above indicate His double presence both on earth and in heaven. Dr Braun, Springer, and Hagen have published monographs in German on this painting.
@@@6    He has showm great skill in the w*ay in which he has fitted his end frescoes into the awkward spaces cut into by the windows, but they are none the less treated in a purely pictorial manner.
@@@8 Compare his fresco of Sixtus IV., now in the picture-gallery of the Vatican.
@@@7    The vault of this room is painted with scenes from the Old Testament on a harsh blue ground, much restored; they are probably the work of Giulio Romano, and in a decorative way are very unsuccessful—a striking contrast to the beautiful vaults of Perugino and Raphael in rooms C and A. The deep blue grounds so much used by Raphael's school are very liable to injury from damp, and in most cases have been coarsely restored. Those in the Villa Madama are untouched, and in parts the damp has changed the ultramarine into emerald green.
@@@8    A pen sketch in the Louvre by Raphael shows Julius II. in the place afterwards occupied by Leo X.; another difference yi this sketch is that the pope is borne in a chair, not on horseback as in the fresco.
army is not the most successful part of the fresco: the horses are very wooden in appearance, and the tight-fitting scale armour, put oii in some impossible *way without any joints, gives a very unreal and theatrical look to the picture. Part is the work of pupils. In 1514 he painted the “ Deliverance of St Peter from Prison, with a further political allusion (No. 9). It is very skilfully arranged to fit in the awkward space round the window, and is remarkable for an attempt, not much suited for fresco-painting, to combine and contrast the three different qualities of light coming from the moon, the glory round the angel, and the torches of the sentinels.
For room C Raphael designed and partly painted the “ Inccndio del Borgo ” (No. 11), a fire in the Borgo or Leonine City, which was miraculously stopped by Leo IV. appearing and making the sign of the cross at a window in the Vatican. On the background is shown the fagade of the old basilica of St Peter, not yet destroyed when this fresco was painted. One group on the left, in the foreground, is remarkable for its vigour and powerful drawing; the motive is taken from the burning of Troy; a fine nude figure of /Fneas issues from the burning houses bearing on his back the old Anchises and leading the boy Ascanius by the hand. Some of the female figures are designed with much grace and dramatic power. Many studies for this picture exist. This is the last of the stanze frescoes on which Raphael himself worked. Others designed by^ him and painted by Giulio Romano, Gianfrancesco Pcnni, and other pupils were the “ Battle of Ostia ” (No. 12), a very nobly composed picture, and the “ Oath of Leo III. before Charlemagne ” (No. 14). The other great picture in this room (No. 13), the ‘"Coronation of Charlemagne ” (a portrait of Francis I. of France), is so very inferior in composition that it is difficult to believe that Raphael even made a sketch for it. The enormous fresco of the “ Defeat of Maxcntius by Constantine ’’ (room D, No. 17) was painted by Giulio Romano, soon after Raphael's death, from a sketch by the latter; it is even more harsh and disagreeable in colour than most of Giulio Romano’s early frescoes.@@1 Among the other very inferior frescoes in this great hall are two female figures (Nos. and 16) representing Comitas and Justitia, painted on the wall in oil colours, very harmonious and rich in tone; they are usually, though wrongly, attributed to Raphael himself.
Technical Methods employed in Raphael's Frescoes.—Having made many studies, both nude and draped, for single figures and groups, the painter made a small drawing of the whole composition, which was enlarged by his pupils with the help of numbered squares, drawn all over it, to the full size required,@@2 on paper or canvas. Holes were then pricked along the outlines of the cartoon, and the design pounced through on to an undercoat of dry stucco on the wall, with pounded charcoal and a stiff brush. Over this, early in the morning, a patch of wet stucco was laid, about enough to serve for the day’s painting; this of course obliterated the outline on the wall, and the part covered by the patch was again sketched in by freehand, with a point on the wet stucco, so as to be a guide for the outline traced with the brush and the subsequent painting. A line impressed on the wet stucco was easily smoothed out, but a touch of the brush full of pigment sank deeply into the moist stucco, and could not easily be effaced. # It will thus be seen that in fresco painting the only use of pouncing the whole design on to the wall was to keep the general positions of the figures right, and was no guide as to the drawing of each separate part. Fig. 5 shows the portrait-heads of himself and Perugino (?), at the extreme right of the School of Athens; on this are visible many of the impressed sketch-lines, and also part of the “ fresco edge ” of the patch on which this part is painted. The heads in this figure arc less than one day’s work. It will be seen that there is no attempt at any accuracy of drawing in the impressed lines. Raphael, especially jn his later frescoes, worked with wonderful rapidity: three life-sized busts, or half a full-length figure, more than life-size, was a not unusual day’s work. In some of the frescoes the edges of each day’s patch of stucco can easily be traced, especially in the Incendio del Borgo, which has a strong side light. In the Disputa much^ use was made of tempera in the final touches, but less was used in the subsequent frescoes, owing to his increasing mastery of the difficulties of the process.
The paintings in the stanze wr ere only a small part of Raphael’s work between 1509 and 1513. To this period belong the Madonna of Foligno (Vatican), painted in 15Π for Sigismondo Conti; it is one of his most beautiful compositions, full of the utmost grace and sweetness of expression, and appears to be wholly the work of his hand. It has suffered much from repainting. Of about the same date are the gem-like Garvagh Madonna (National Gallery, bought for £9000; once in the possession of the Aldobrandini family), the Diademed Virgin of the Louvre, and the Madonna del Pesce at Madrid. The last is a very noble picture but the design is more pleasing than the
@@@1 See Montagnani, Sato di Costantino (Rome, 1834). "Though he was never a good colourist, the great frescoes by Giulio Romano in the Palazzo del Τέ, Mantua, show some improvement as compared with his Roman work.
@@@1 These three stages were usually distinguished as study, sketch and cartoon.
colour, which, like [other paintings of Raphael’s at Madrid, suggests the inferior touch of a pupil; it was executed in 1513 for S. Domenico in Naples. In addition to other easel pictures a number of his finest portraits belong to this period —that of Julius II. (Uffizi),@@3 of which a good replica or contemporary copy exists in the National Gallery, the so-called Fornarina in the Palazzo Barberini, the Baldassarc Castiglione of the Louvre, and the unfinished portrait of Federigo Gonzaga of Mantua.
When Giovanni de1 [Medici, at the age of thirty-eight, became pope as Leo X., a period of the most glowing splendour and reckless magnificence succeeded * the sterner rule of Julius II. Agostino Chigi, the Sienese financier, was the chief of those whose lavish expenditure contributed to enrich Rome with countless works of art. For him Raphael painted, in 1513-14, the very beautiful fresco of the Triumph of Galatea in his new palace by the Tiber bank, the Villa Farnesina, and also made a large series of magnificent designs from Apuleius’s romance of Cupid and Psyche, which were carried out by a number of his pupils.@@4 These cover the vault and lunettes of a large loggia (now closed in for protection); in colouring they are mostly harsh and gaudy,@@6 as is usually the case with the works of his pupils, a great contrast to the fresco of the Galatea, the greater part of which is certainly the master’s own work.@@4 For the same patron he painted (also in 1513) his celebrated Sibyls
@@@2 A very fine ancient copy of this portrait is in the Pitti Palace; certain peculiarities in its execution snow it to be by some Venetian painter, as was pointed out to Professor Middleton by Mr Fairfax Murray.
@@@4 Chiefly by Giulio Romano, Gianfrancesco Penni and Giovanni da^ Udine; much injury has been done to these frescoes by repainting, especially in the coarse blue of the ground.
@@@6 These and other frescoes by his pupils are much disfigured by the disagreeable hot tone of the flesh,· very unlike the pearly tone of the flesh of Galatea.
@@@* Dorigny, Psychis et Amoris sabuto a Raphaels, &sc. (Rome, 1693); and Gruner, Fresco Decorations in Italy (London, 1854), pis. 16-18. The group of the Triton and Nymph on the left of the composition was probably executed by Giulio Romano.
in S. Maria della Pace,—figures of exquisite grace, arranged with perfect skill in an awkward space. It is not without
reason that Vasari gives these the highest position among his fresco-paintings.@@1 Agos-tino Chigi also employed Raphael to build for him a private chapel in S. Maria del Popolo, and to make a series of cartoons to be executed in mosaic on the inner dome.@@2  The central medallion has a figure of God among clouds and angel boys, such as Raphael drew with unrivalled grace (fig. 6), and around are the eight planets, each with its pagan deity and directing angel.@@3 He has not hampered himself by any of the usual rules which should apply to the designing of mosaic; they are simply treated as pictures, with almost deceptive effects of perspective. The execution of these brilliant mosaics was carried out by the Venetian Luigi della Pace, whose signature is introduced on the torch of Cupid in the panel representing the star Venus (Ludovico della Pace Veneziano fecit, 1516). These mosaics are still as perfect and brilliant as if they were the work of yesterday. Probably in the early years of Leo X.’s reign were painted the Madonna della Seg-giola (Pitti), the S. Cecilia at Bologna (not completed till 1516), the miniature Vision of Ezekiel (Pitti) and three important pictures at Madrid. The latest of these, known as Lo Spasimo, from the church at Palermo, for which it was painted, is one of Raphael’s finest compositions, representing Christ bearing His Cross. It bears signs of Giulio Romano’s hand in its heavy colouring with unpleasant purple tones. The Madonna called Della Perla has much changed from the darkening of the pigments; in design it recalls Leonardo da Vinci.@@4 The small Madonna della Rosa is the most perfect in colour of all the master’s pictures in the Madrid Gallery, and is usually rather undervalued; it is a most graceful little picture. The portrait of Leo X. with Cardinals de’ Rossi and de’ Medici, in the Pitti, is one of his finest portrait-pictures, especially as regards the figure of the pope.@@6 Little is known about the Madonna di S. Sisto, the glory of the Dresden Gallery; no studies or sketches for it exist. In style it much resembles the Madonna di Foligno; it is less injured by restoration than the latter.
Among the latest works of Raphael are the large “ St Michael and the Devil,” in the Louvre, signed “ Raphael Urbinas pinge-bat, mdxviii.,” and the very beautiful portrait of the Violin-player, in the Sciarra-Colonna Palace in Rome, also dated 1518; this last bears much resemblance to the painter himself. The British Museum possesses one of Raphael’s finest portraits,
though only a chalk drawing, that of his friend the painter Timoteo della Vite, a masterpiece of expression and vigour; it is executed in black and red, and is but little inferior in chromatic effect to an oil-painting; it is life size, and is executed with wonderful skill and evident keen interest in the subject.
The tapestry cartoons, seven of which are in the Victoria and Albert Museum, were painted by pupils from Raphael’s designs. They are part of a set of ten, with scenes from the Acts of the Apostles, intended, when copied in tapestry, to adorn the lower part of the walls of the Sistine chapel. The tapestries themselves, worked at Brussels, are now, after many vicissitudes, hung in a gallery in the Vatican; the set is complete, thus preserving the design of the three lost cartoons. The existing seven, after being cut up into strips for use on the looms, were bought by Rubens for Charles I.@@ The tapestry copies are executed with wonderful skill, in spite of Raphael’s having treated the subjects in a purely pictorial way, with little regard to the exigencies of textile work. The designs are reversed, and the colours far more brilliant than those of the cartoons, much gold and silver being introduced. The noble figure of Christ in the Delivery of the Keys to St Peter is in the tapestry much disfigured by the addition of a number of large gold stars all over the drapery, which spoil the simple dignity of the folds. The rich framework round each picture, designed by Raphael’s pupils, probably by Penni and Giovanni da Udine, exists in the tapestries and adds greatly to their decorative effect. The cartoons were executed in 1515 and 1516, and the finished tapestries were first exhibited in their place in the Sistine chapel on the 26th of December 1519—a very short time for the weaving of such large and elaborate pictures. The three of which the cartoons are lost represent the Martyrdom of St Stephen, the Conversion of St Paul, and St Paul in Prison at Philippi. Probably no pictures are better known to have been more often engraved and copied than these seven cartoons.@@7
The Transfiguration.@@8 —In 1519 Cardinal Giuliano de’ Medici (afterwards Clement VII.), as bishop of Narbonne, ordered two altar-pieces for his cathedral—the one by Raphael, the other by Raphael’s Venetian rival Sebastiano del Piombo. That by the latter painter is the noble Resurrection of Lazarus, now in the National Gallery, in the drawing of which the Venetian received important aid from Michelangelo. Several studies for Raphael’s picture exist, showing that he at first intended to paint a Resurrection of Christ as a pendant to Sebastiano’s subject, but soon altered his scheme into the Transfiguration. The eight or nine existing studies are scattered through the Oxford, Lille, Windsor and sojne private collections. A great part of the lower group was unfinished at the time of the painter’s sudden death in 1520, and a good deal of the heavy colouring of Giulio Romano is visible in it. On the death of Raphael the picture became too precious to send out of Rome, and Cardinal de’ Medici contented himself with sending the Resurrection of Lazarus to Narbonne. The Transfiguration was bequeathed by him to the monks of S. Pietro in Montorio, in whose church it remained till it was stolen by Napoleon I. It now hangs in the Vatican Gallery.
Architectural Work@@—Though he designed but few buildings, Raphael’s great repute even in this branch of art is shown by the
@@@1    Thanks to Michelangelo’s generous intervention, Raphael was paid the large sum for that time of 900 gold ducats for this fresco.
@@@2    Grüner, Mo said in S. Maria del Popolo (Rome, 1839).
@@@8 In accordance with Dante’s scheme in the Paradiso.
@@@4 La Perla, “ the pearl ” of the Spanish royal collection, was originally painted for Bishop Louis of Canossa; it was sold by Cromwell with the greater part of Charles I.’s collection at Hampton Court. The composition, though not the execution, of this picture, belongs to Raphael’s early.years in Rome; it is very remarkable for its delicacy of touch and high finish.
@@@‘The magnificent portrait-heads of the Venetian scholars NavaT gero and Beazzano, now in the Doria Gallery in Rome, are worthy of Raphael at his best, and have for long been attributed to him. There are good contemporary copies at Madrid.
@@@6    Fortunately they were not sold with the bulk of Charles’s collection, and remained at Hampton Court till a few years ago. See Koch, Rafael's Tapeten im Vatican (Vienna, 1878), and Müntz, Hist. de la tapisserie italienne (Paris, 1880).
@@@7    The name “ arazzi ” given by Italians to these tapestries is derived from Arras, where they were erroneously thought to have been woven; they were made at Brussels. It is much to be regretted that visitors to the Vatican are no longer allowed to see these priceless examples of textile work.
@@@8    See Morgenstern, Über Rafael's Verklärung (Leipzig, 1822), and Justi, Die Verklärung Christi (Leipzig, 1870).
@@@8 See Ojetti, Discorso su Raffaello Architetto (Rome, 1883), but more especially Geymüller’s work mentioned in the text, and his Projets primitifs pour la Bas. de 5. Pierre (Paris, 1875-80); also the works of Hofmann and Bloch (Dresden, 1900).
fact that Bramante, before his death in March 1514, specially requested that Raphael should be made his successor as chief architect of St Peter’s. To this most important post he was appointed by a brief of Leo X., dated the 1st of August 1514. The progress of St Peter’s was, however, too slow for him to leave much mark on its design. Another work of Bramante’s completed, by Raphael, was the graceful Cortile di S. Damaso in the Vatican, including the loggie, which were decorated with stucco-reliefs and paintings of sacred subjects by his pupils under his own supervision* out only very partially from his designs.@@1 The Palazzo dell’ Aquila, built for Giovanni Battista Branconio, and destroyed in the 17th century during the extension of St Peter’s, was one of Raphael’s chief works as an architect. He also designed the little cross church, domed at the intersection like a miniature St Peter’s, called S. Eligio degli Orefici, which still exists near the Tiber, almost opposite the Farnesina gardens, a work of but little merit. According to M. Geymtiller, whose valuable work, Raffaello come Architctto (Milan, 1883), has done so much to increase our knowledge of this subject, the Villa Farnesina of Agostino Chigi, usually attributed to Peruzzi, was, as well as its palace-like stables, designed by Raphael; but internal evidence makes this very difficult to believe. It nas too much of the delicate and refined character of the 15th century for Raphael, whose taste seems to have been strongly inclined to the more developed classic style, of which Palladio afterwards became the chief exponent. The Palazzo Vidoni, near S. Andrea della Valle, also in Rome, is usually attributed to Raphael, but an original sketch for this in Peruzzi’s own hand has recently been identified among the collection of drawings at Siena; this, however, is not a certain proof that the design was not Raphael’s. M. Geymiiller has, however, shown that the Villa Madama, on the slopes of Monte Mario above Rome, was really designed by him, though its actual carrying out, and the unrivalled stucco-reliefs which make its interior one of the most magnificent palaces in the world, are due to Giulio Romano and Giovanni da Udine, as mentioned in Vasari’s life of the latter.@@1 The original design for this villa made by Raphael himself has been discovered^ by M. Geymiiller. Another architectural work was the little Chigi chapel in S. Maria del Popolo, built in 1316, for the dome of which the above-mentioned mosaics were designed (see fig. 6). At the time of his death he was preparing to build himselfa handsome palace near the church of S. Eligio; the deed for the purchase of its site was signed by him only a few days before his last short illness. Though not completed till 1339. the Palazzo Pandolfirii at Florence was also designed by him; it is a dull scholastic building without any special beauty either in proportion or treatment of the mass; it is illustrated by Montigny and Famin, Architecture To scant (Paris, 1815), pis. 33-36.
A sober criticism of Raphael’s architectural works must force one to refuse him a high position in this branch of art. In the church of S. Eligio and the Chigi chapel he is merely a copyist of Bramante, and his more original works show but little jiower of invention or even mastery of the first principles of architectural design. His details are, however, often delicate and refined (especially in the Palazzo Pandolfini), and he was supremely successful in the decorative treatment of richly ornamented intenors when he did not, as in some of the Vatican stanze, sacrifice the room to the frescoes on its walls.
Sculpture.—That Vasari is right in attributing to him the model for the beautiful statue of Jonah in the Chigi chapel (fig. 7) is borne witness to by two important documents, which show that his almost universal talents led him to attempt with success the preliminary part of the sculptor’s art, though there is no evidence to show that he ever worked on marble.@@ One of these is a letter written to Michelangelo to warn him that Raphael had been invading his province as a sculptor by modelling a boy, which had been executed in marble by a pupil, and was a work of much beauty. Again, after his death his friend Baldassare Castiglione, in a letter
dated the 8th of May 1523, asks his steward in Rome " if Giulio Romano still possesses a certain boy in marble by Raphael and what his lowest price for it would be,”—” s’egli [Giulio Romano] ha ριύ
3uel puttino di marmo i mano di Raffaello e per quanto si daria all’ ultimo.” A group in marble of a Dead Boy on his Dolphin Playfellow, now in the St Petersburg Hermitage, has been erroneously supposed to be Raphael’s 44 puttino,” which has also been identified with a statuette of a child formerly at Florence in the possession of Signor Molini.@@4  The statue of Jonah was executed in marble by Lorenzetto, a Florentine sculptor; and it remained in his studio for many years after Raphael’s death. The Victoria and Albert Museum possesses a small clay sketch for this beautiful group, slightly different from the marble; it is probably the original design by the master’s own hand. The whole feeling of the group)—a beautiful youth seated on a sea-monster—is purely classical, and the motive is probably taken from some antique statue representing Arion or Taras on a dolphin.@@5 Being intended for a church it was necessary to give the figure a sacred name^ and hence the very incongruous title that it received. There is^no trace of Raphael’s hand in the design of the other statue, an Elijah by Lorenzetto, though it also is ascribed to him by Vasari.
Lesser Arts practised by Raphael.—Like other great artists, Raphael did not disdain to practise the lesser branches of art: a design for a silver p>erfume-burner with female caryatids is preserved in an engraving by Marco da Ravenna; and he also designed two handsome repouss6 salvers for Agostino Chigi, drawings for which are now at Dresden. In designs for tarsia-work and wood-carving he was especially skilful; witness the magnificent doors and shutters of the stanze executed by his pupil Giovanni Barile of Siena.@@6 The majolica designs attributed to him were by a namesake and relation called Raffaello di Ciarla;@@7 and, though many fine dishes and ewers of Urbino and other majolica are decorated with Raphael’s designs, they are all taken from pictures or engravings, not specially done by him for ceramic purposes. With the frivolity of his age Leo X. occasionally wasted Raphael’s skill on unworthy subjects, sueh^as the scenery of a temporary theatre; and in 1516 the pope set him to paint in fresco the portrait life-size of a large elephant, the gift of the king of Portugal, after the animal was dead.@@8 This elephant is also introduced among the stucco reliefs of the Vatican loggie, with the poetaster Barrabal sitting in mock triumph on its back.
Though Raphael himself docs not appear to have practised the art of engraving, yet this formed one of the many branches of art which were earned on under his supervision. A large number of his designs were engraved by his pupils Marcantonio Raimondi and Agostino Veneziano.^ These valuable engravings are from Raphael’s sketches, not from his finished pictures, and in some cases they show
@@@1 See Mariani, La Bibbia nelle Loggie del Voticono (Rome); Anon., Dipinti nelle Loggie del Vaticano (Rome, 1841); and Gruner, Fresco Decorations (London, 1834), pis. 1-5. Too great a share in the decoration of the loggie is usually given to Raphael; not only the harsh colour but also the feebleness of much of the drawing shows that he can have had but little to do with it.
@@@See Gruner, Fresco Decorations, &c. (London, 1854), pis. 6-12, and Raffaelle Santi, Ornati della Villa Madamat &c. (Rome, 1875). Two other little known but very beautiful architectural works, executed under Raphael’s influence by his pupils, are the bathroom of Cardinal Bibbiena in the Vatican and the bathroom of Clement VI I. in the castle of S. Angelo, both richly decorated with delicate stucco-reliefs and paintings, treated after a classical model.
@@@See note on p. 369, vol. iv., of Milaneses edition of Vasari (Florence, 1870). To one branch of the sculptor’s art, practised under Raphael’s supervision, belong the elaborate and delicately executed stucco-reliefs of the loggie and elsewhere. Among these occur many panels with figure-subjects, large in scale and important in composition; those executed during his lifetime are free from the too pictorial character which is an obvious fault in the very magnificent reliefs of the Villa Madama.
@@@4    See Appendix, p. 406, vol. iv., of Milanesi’s edition of Vasari; Rembadi, Del putto . . . di Raffaello (Florence, 1872); Gennarelli, Sopra una Scultura di Raffaello (Florence, 1873). The evidence which would attribute this piece of sculpture to Raphael is almost worthless. See on the St Petersburg group, Gu6d6onoff, t)ber die dent Raphael zugeschr. Marmorgruppe (St Petersburg, 1872).
@@@5    Compare this latter subject on reverses of the beautiful didrachms of Tarentum, c. 300 b.c.
@@@6    The very beautiful and elaborate choir-stalls of the church of S. Pietro de’ Casinensi at Perugia, with panels carved in relief, executed in 1535 by Stefano da Bergamo, are mainly adapted from Raphael’s designs.
,    @@@7 Campori, Notizie Stor. d. Moiolica di Ferrara (3rd ed., Pesaro,
1879), pp· 132-133.
@@@Under it wr as inscribed—"Raphael Urbinas quod natura ab-stulerat arte rcstituit.”
important alterations made in the execution of the picture. Raimondi’s engraving of the S. Cecilia of Bologna in design is very inferior to that of the actual painting. Several of Raphael’s most important compositions are known to us only by these early engravings, e.g. the Massacre of the Innocents (engraved by Raimondi), which is one of his finest works, both for skilful composition and for masterly drawing of the nude. Another magnificent design is the Judgment of Paris, containing a large number of figures; the nude figure of Minerva is a work of especial force and beauty. A standing figure of Lucretia@@1 about to stab herself is also one of his most lovely figures. Many of Raphael’s studies for Marcantonio’s engravings still exist.
Archaeology.—As an antiquary Raphael deserves to take the highest rank. His report@@2 to Leo X. in 1518 is an eloquent pica for the preservation of ancient buildings. In 1515 he had been appointed by Leo X. inspector of all excavations in Rome and within 10 miles round. His careful study of the antique, both statues and modes of decoration, is clearly shown in many of his frescoes, and especially in the graceful stucco reliefs and painted grotteschi, of which he and his pupils made such skilful use in the decorations of the Vatican loggie, the Villa Madama and elsewhere.@@3
Raphael's Fame.—Among all the painters of the world none has been so universally popular as Raphael, or has so steadily maintained his pre-eminent reputation throughout the many changes in taste which have taken place in the last three and a half centuries. Apart from his combined merits as a draughtsman, colourist and master of graceful composition, he owes the constancy of admiration which has been felt for him partly to the wide range of his subjects, but still more to the wonderful varieties of his style. If the authorship of his paintings were unknown, who would guess that the Sposalizio of the Brera, the Madonna del Baldacchino of the Pitti, and the Transfiguration could possibly be the work of one painter? In the seventeen or eighteen years which composed his short working life he passed through stages of development for which a century would not have seemed too long, while other painters lived through the same changeful time with but little alteration in their manner of work. Perugino, who outlived his wonderful pupil, completed in 1521 Raphael's San Severo fresco in a style differing but little from his paintings executed in the previous century.
In versatility of power Raphael (as a painter) remains almost without a rival; whether painting an altar-piece for a church, a large historical fresco, a portrait or decorative scenes from classical mythology, he seems to excel equally in each; and the widely different methods of painting in tempera, oil or fresco are employed by him with apparently equal facility. His range of scale is no less remarkable, varying from a miniature, finished like an illuminated MS., to colossal figures in fresco dashed in with inimitable breadth and vigour.
His personal beauty, charm of manner and deep kindliness of heart endeared him to all who knew him.@@4 His sincere modesty was not diminished by his admission as an equal by the princes of the church, the distinguished scholars and the world-famed men of every class who formed the courts of Julius II. and Leo X. In accordance with the spirit of the age he lived with considerable display'and luxury, and was approached with the utmost deference by the ambassadors of foreign princes, whether their master desired a picture, or, as the duke of Ferrara did, sent to consult him on the best cure for smoky chimneys. To his pupils he was as a father, and they were all, as Vasari says, “ vinti dalla sua cortesia”; they formed^ round him a sort of royal retinue, numbering about fifty youths, each talented in some branch of the arts.@@5 Giulio Romano and Gianfrancesco Penni, his two favourite pupils, lived with him in the Palazzo di Bramante, a house near St Peter's, where he resided during the greater part of his life in Rome. This fine
palace, designed by Bramante, was destroyed in the 17th century at the same time as Raphael’s Palazzo dell' Aquila.
It is difficult to realize the grief and enthusiasm excited by the master's death on Good Friday (April 6th) 1520, at the age of thirty-seven exactly, after an attack of fever which lasted only ten days. His body was laid out in state in his studio, by the side of the unfinished Transfiguration, and all Rome flocked to the place for a last sight of the “ divinò pittore,” His property amounted to about £30,000; his drawings and MSS. he left to Giulio Romano and Gianfrancesco Penni; his newly bought land to Cardinal Bibbiena, the uncle of the lady to whom he had been betrothed; there were liberal bequests to his servants; and the rest was mostly divided among his relatives at Urbino. He desired to be buried in the Pantheon, under the noble dome which he and Bramante had dreamed of rivalling. His body is laid beside an altar, which he endowed with an annual chantry, and on the wall over it is a plain slab, with an inscription written by his friend Cardinal Bembo. Happily his grave has as yet escaped the disfigurement of a pretentious monument such as those erected to Michelangelo, Dante and other great Italians; it has not, however, remained undisturbed; in 1833 it was opened and the bones examined.@@6 In March 1883 a festival was held at Urbino, on the occasion of the 4th centenary of his birth, and on this occasion many interesting articles on Raphael were published, especially one by Geymüller, “ Le IVme centenaire de la naissance de Raphaël,” 1483-1883, in the Gaz. de Lausanne, March 1883.
Literature.—Comolli, Vita inedita di Raffaello (1790); Duppa, Life of Raphael (London, 1816); Braun, Raphael. . . Lehen und Werke (Wiesbaden, 1819); Fea, Raffaello ... ed alcune di lui Opere (Rome, 1822); Rehberg, Rafael Sanzio aus Urbino (Munich, 1824) ; Quatréméré de Quincy, Vita ed Opere di Raffaello, trans, by Longhena (Milan, 1829) (a work marred by many inaccuracies); Rumohr, Über Raphael und sein Verhältniss (Berlin, 1831); Rio, Michelange et Raphael (Paris, 1863); Gruyer, Raphael et Vantiquité (Paris, 1864), Les vierges de Raphael (Paris, 1878) and Raphael, peintre de portraits (Paris, 1880); Grimm, Das Leben Raphaels von Urbino (Berlin, 1872) (intended specially to point out the errors of Vasari and Passavant, and not written in a very fair spirit) ; Gher-ardi, Della Vita di Raffaello (Urbino, 1874); Anton Springer, Raffael und Michelangelo (Leipzig, 1878); C. C. Perkins, Raphael and Michelangelo (Boston, 1878); Dohme, Kunst und Künstler des Mittelalters (Leipzig, 1878) (yol. ii. of this valuable work, with many illustrations, is devoted entirely to Raphael and Michelangelo); Alippi, 11 Raffaello (Urbino, 1880); Clément, Michelange et Raphael (5th ed., improved) (Paris, 1881); Eug. Müntz, Raphael, sa vie, son œuvre, &c. (Paris, 1881) (with numerous well-chosen illustrations); Passavant^ Rafael und sein Vater (Leipzig, 1839-58) (a valuable book, especially for its list of Raphael's works; a new edition translated by Guasti into_ Italian was published at Florence in 1882, but this edition is in no way superior to the French one of Lacroix (Paris, i860), which is a great advance on the original German text) ; Crowe and Cavalcasene, Life and Works of Raphael (London, 1882-85); Eug. Müntz, Les historiens et les critiques de Raphaël (Paris, 1883) (contains a good bibliography of the subject); Morelli, Italian Masters (in German, 1880; in English, 1882, and subsequently republished),—practically the starting-point of modern technical criticism; B. Berenson, Central Italian Painters (1897) (expert characterization and list of works).
Reproductions of Raphael's Works.—From the time of Raimondi downwards no painter’s works have been so frequently engraved. The Calcografia Camerale (now called Regia) of Rome possesses an enormous number of copper-plates of his pictures by a great many good (and bad) engravers of the 18th and 19th centuries. Electrotypes of the old coppers are still worked, and are published by the Stamperia at very moderate prices; in the catalogue Nos. 736 to 894 are the works of Raphael, including several books of engravings containing whole sets, such as the Vatican loggie, &c. A very complete collection of photographs from these and other engravings was published by Gutbier and Lübke, Rafael's Werket  sammtliche Tafelbilder und Fresken (Dresden, 1881-82), in three large volumes, divided into classes,—pictures of the Madonna, frescoes, stanze of the Vatican, tapestry cartoons, &c. The descriptive text and life of Raphael are by Lübke. The Malcolm, Oxford, British Museum, Lille, Louvre, Dresden and other collections of Raphael’s drawings have mostly been published in photographic facsimile, and an enormous number of illustrated monographs on single pictures exist. Braun’s autotypes of the stanze and Farnesina frescoes are especially good.    (J. H. M.)
@@@1    On a pedestal is inscribed in Greek—“ Better to die than live basely.”
@@@2    Published by Visconti, Lettera di Raffaello a Leone X. (Rome, 1840); see also Müntz, “ Raphaël Archéologue,” &c., Gaz. des B. Arts y October and November 1880.
@@@3    See Gruyer, Raphaël et l'antiquité (Paris, 1864).
@@@4    See the eloquent eulogy of his character at the end of Vasari’s Life.
@@@6 See Minghetti, “ Gli Scolari di Raffaello,” Nuova Antologia (June 1880).
@@@8 See “ Ritrovamento delle ossa di Raffaello,” Soc. Virtuosi al Panteone (Rome, 1833); other pamphlets on this were published in the same year by Fea, Falconieri and Odescalchi.
RAPIER, the name given to two distinct types of sword. Originally the “ rapier ” (Fr. rapière) was a long two-edged and pointed weapon with a wide cup hilt, used together with the dagger in fencing and duelling chiefly as a thrusting weapon, the cut taking a secondary position. This was the typical duelling sword of the 16th and 17th centuries. In the 18th century the “ small-sword ” took its place; this was a pointed weapon only, the “ cut ” having entirely dropped out, and the dagger being discarded. The word rapier is of doubtful origin. Du Cange (Glossarium, s.v, “ Rapparia ”) quotes an example of the word used as an adjective to qualify espée as early as 1474, and gives as a conjectural derivation Gr. ραπίξειυ = Lat. caedere, to cut. Skeat (Etym. Diet., 1910) follows the suggestion of Diez that rapière is from raspière, a rasper or poker, and was a name given in contempt by the old cut-and-thrust fencers to the new weapon. Spanish has raspadera, a raker, and there are several 16th and 17th century quotations alluding to the contempt with which the rapier was greeted, and to its Spanish origin (see Fencing and Sword).
RAPIN, PAUL DE (1661-1725), sieur of Thoyras, French historian, was the son of Jacques de Rapin, avocat at Castres (Tarn), where he was born on the 25th of March 1661. He was educated at the Protestant academy of Saumur, and in 1679 became an advocate, but soon afterwards entered the army. The revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685, and the death of his father led him to come to England; but, unable to find employment there, he crossed to Holland and enlisted in the company of French volunteers at Utrecht commanded by Daniel de Rapin, his cousin-german. He accompanied the prince of Orange to England in 1688, and during the Irish campaign he took part in the siege of Carrickfergus and the battle of the Boyne, and was wounded at the battle of Limerick. Soon afterwards he was promoted captain; but in 1693 he resigned in order to become tutor to the earl of Portland’s son. After travelling with his charge, he settled with his family in Holland, first at the Hague, then, for economy’s sake, at Wesel, in 1707, where he began his great work, L'Histoire d’Angleterre. Though he was of a strong constitution, the seventeen years’ application ruined his health. He died in 1725.
Rapin was also the author of a Dissertation sur les Whigs et les Torys (1717). L'Histoire d'Angleterre, embracing the period from the invasion of the Romans to the death of Charles I., was printed at the Hague in 1724 in 8 vols. It was translated into English and improved with notes by Tindal, in 2 vols. folio, 1725-31. Rapin’s history of England was almost the only one available in France in the first half of the 18th century.
RAPOPORT, SAMUEL JUDAH LOB (1790-1867), Jewish scholar, was born at Lemberg in 1790. After various experiences in business, Rapoport became successively rabbi of Tarnopol (1837) and of Prague (1840). He was one of the founders of the new learning in Judaism. His chief work was the first part of an (unfinished) encyclopaedia ('Erekh Millin, 1852). Equally notable were his biographies of the Gaon Saadiah, Nathan author of the Arnkh, the Gaon Hai, Eleazar Kalir and others. He died at Prague in 1867.    (I. A.)
RAPPAREE, properly a short pike (Irish, rapaire); the term being hence applied in the war in Ireland from 1688-92 to the Irish irregular soldiers armed with this weapon. It thus became synonymous with robber or freebooter, and in 1707 appears in the title of an act (6 Anne, cap. 11) “for the more effectual suppression of . . . robbers and rapparees.”
RAPPOLTSWEILER (French Ribeauville), a town of Germany, in the imperial province of Alsace-Lorraine. Pop. (1905) 5986. It lies at the entrance of the valley of the Strengbach, under the eastern slope of the Vosges mountains, 33 m. S.W. of Strass-burg on the railway to Basel, being connected with its station on that line, 21/2 m. distant, by a tramway. It is in part surrounded by ancient walls, and has many picturesque medieval houses, and two old churches, of St Gregory and St Augustine, both fine Gothic buildings. The town hall contains a valuable collection of antiquities. The Carolabad, a saline spring with a temperature of 64° F., which had a great repute in the middle ages, was rediscovered in 1888, and made Rappoltsweiler a watering-place. The industries include the spinning and weaving of cotton and wool, printing, dyeing and tanning, while there is a brisk trade in wine.
Rappoltsweiler, known in the 8th century as Rathaldovilare, passed from the bishops of Basel to the lords of Rappoltstein, who were among the most famous nobles in Alsace. The lord of Rappoltstein was the king or protector of the wandering minstrels of the land, who purchased his protection by paying him a tax. When the family became extinct in 1673 this office of king of the pipers (Pfeiferkönig) passed to the counts palatine of Zweibrücken-Birkenfeld. The minstrels had a pilgrimage chapel near Rappoltsweiler, dedicated to their patron saint, Maria von Dusenbach, and here they held an annual feast on the 8th of September. Near the town are the ruins of three famous castles, Ulrichsburg, Girsberg and H0li-rappoltstein, which formerly belonged to the lords of Rappoltstein. *
See Bernhard, Recherches sur l'histoire de la ville de Rappoltsweiler (Colmar, 1888); and Kube, Rappoltsweiler, das Carolabad und Umgebung (Strassburg, 1905). For the lords of Rappoltstein, see Brieger, Die Ilerrschaft Rappoltstein (Strassburg, 1907).
RARE EARTHS, in chemistry, the name given to a group of oxides of certain metals which occur in close association in some very rare minerals. Although these metals resemble each other in their chemical relationships, it is convenient to subdivide them into three groups: the cerium, terbium and ytterbium groups. The first includes scandium (Sc, 441*1), yttrium (Y, 89*0), lanthanum (La, 139-0), cerium (Ce, 140*25), praseodymium (Pr, 140*6), neodymium (Nd, 144*3), and samarium (Sa, 150*4); the second includes europium (Eu, 152*0), gadolinium (Gd. 157*3), and terbium (Tb, 159*2); and the third includes dysprosium (Dy, 162*5), holmium (Ho, ?) erbium (Er, 167*4), thulium (Tm, 168*5), ytterbium or neoytterbium (Yb, 172*0), and lutecium (Lu, 174*0); the letters and numbers in the brackets are the symbols and atomic weights (international). Although very rare, a large number of minerals contain these metals; they are chiefly found in Scandinavia, parts of the Urals, America and Australia, generally associated with Archean and eruptive rocks, and more rarely with sedimentary deposits. They are usually silicates, but many complex tantalates, niobates, phosphates, uranates and fluorides occur. The chief mineral species are monazite, a phosphate of the cerium metals, containing thorium (this mineral supplies the ceria and thoria employed in making incandescent gas mantles); cerite, a hydrated silicate of calcium and the cerium metals; gadolinite, a silicate of beryllium, iron, and the yttrium metals; samarksite, a niobate and tantalate of both the cerium and yttrium metals, with uranium, iron, calcium, etc.; and keilhauite, a titanosilicate of yttrium, iron, calcium and aluminium; other species are fergusonite, orthite, aeschy-nite, euxenite and thorianite.
The chemistry of this group may be regarded as beginning with Cronstedt’s description of the mineral cerite from Bastnaës in 1751, and the incorrect analyses published by T. O. Bergman and Don Fausto d’Elhuyar in 1784. Ten years later Gadolin investigated the mineral subsequently named gadolinite, which had been found at Ytterby in 1788 by Arrhenius. This discovery of a new earth was confirmed by A. G. Ekeberg in 1799, who named the base yttria. Cerite was examined simultaneously by Klaproth in Germany and by Berzelius and Hisinger in Sweden; and a new base was discovered in 1803 which the Swedish chemists named ceria. Both these oxides have proved to be mixtures. In 1839 Mosander separated “ ceria ” into true ceria and an earth which he termed lanthana (Gr. λανθάνειν, to lie hidden), and in 1841 he showed that his lanthana contained another base, which he called didymia (Gr. διδύμοι, twins). This didymia was separated in 1879 by Lecoq de Bois-baudran into a new base, samaria, and a residual didymia which was shown by Auer von Welsbach in 1885 to consist of a mixture of two bases, praseodidymia and neodidymia; moreover, samaria was split by Demarçay in 1900 into true samaria and a new base named europia. In 1843 Mosander also split
yttria into two new bases which he called “erbia” and “ terbia,” and a true yttria, but in i860 N. J. Berlin denied the existence of Mosander’s “erbia,” and gave this name to his “terbia.” The new erbia has itself proved to be a mixture. Marignac in 1878 separated an ytterbia which was split by Nilson in 1879 into scandia (the metal of which proved to be identical with Mendelé-eff’s predicted eka-boron)and a new ytterbia, which, in turn, was separated by Urbain in 1907 into neoytterbia and lutecia (C. A. von Welsbach proposed for these elements the names alde-barianum and cassiopeium). Berlin’s erbia was also examined by Soret in 1878 and by Cleve in 1879; the new base then isolated, Soret’s X or Cleve’s holmia, was split by Lecoq de Boisbaudran in 1886 into a true holmia and a new oxide dysprosia. The same erbia also yielded another base, thulia, to Cleve, in 1879, in addition to true erbia. The original erbia of Mosander was confirmed by M. A. Delafontaine in 1878 and renamed terbia; this base was split by Marignac in 1886 into gadolinia and true terbia. These relations are schematically shown below; the true earths are in italics, mixtures in Roman.
Methods of Separation.—The small proportions in which the rare earths occur in the mineral kingdom and the general intermixture of several of them renders their efficient separation -a matter of much difficulty, which is increased by their striking chemical resemblances. While it is impossible to treat the separations in detail, a general indication of the procedure may be given. The first step is to separate the rare earths from the other components of the mineral. For this purpose the mineral is evaporated with sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, or fused with potassium bisulphate, and the residue extracted with water. The solution of chlorides or sulphates thus obtained is treated with sulphuretted hydrogen, to remove copper, bismuth and molybdenum, and the filtrate, after the ferrous iron has been oxidized with chlorine, is precipitated with oxalic acid. The oxalates (and also thorium oxalate) may be converted into oxides by direct heating, into nitrates by dissolving in nitric acid, or into hydroxides by boiling with potash solution. The thorium may be removed by treating the nitrate solution with hydrogen peroxide, and warming, whereupon it separates as thorium peroxide. The next step consists in neutralizing the nitric acid solution and then saturating with potassium sulphate. Double salts of the general formula R2(S04 )3.3K2 S04 are formed, of which those of the cerium group are practically insoluble, of the terbium group soluble, and of the ytterbium group very
soluble. The sulphates thus obtained may be reconverted into oxalates or oxides and the saturation with potassium sulphate repeated.
To separate the individual metals many different methods have been proposed; these, however, depend on two principles, one, on the different basicities of the metals, the other, on the different solubilities of their salts. Bahr and Bunsen worked out a process of the first type, which utilized the fractional decomposition of the nitrates into oxides on heating. The mixed oxalates are converted into nitrates, which are then mixed with an alkali nitrate to lower the melting-point, and the mixture fused. The nitrates decompose in order of the basicities of the metals, and after a short fusion the residue is extracted with boiling water, and the basic salt which separates when the solution is cooled is filtered off. This contains the most negative metal; and the filtrate, after evaporation and a repetition of the fusion and extraction, may be caused to yield the other oxides. A second method, based on the same principle, consists in the fractional precipitation by some base, such as ammonia, soda, potash, aniline, &c. The neutral nitrates are dissolved in water, and the base added in such a quantity to precipitate the oxides only partially and very slowly. Obviously the first deposit contains the least basic oxide, which by re-solution as nitrate and re-precipitation yields a purer product. To the filtrate from the first precipitate more of the base is added, and the second less basic oxide is thrown down. By repeating the process all the bases can be obtained more or less pure.
Many processes depending upon the different solubilities of certain salts have been devised.^ They consist in forming the desired salt and fractionally crystallizing. The mother liquor is concentrated and crystallized, the crystals being added to the filtrate from a recrystallization of the first deposit. These operations are repeated after the manner, shown in the following scheme; the letter C denotes crystals, the M.L mother liquor, whilst a bracket means mixing before re-crystallization.
Obviously the fractions contain salts which increase in solubility as one passes from the left to^ right, and with sufficient care and patience this method permits a complete separation. The salts which have been used include the sulphates, nitrates, chromates, formates, oxalates and malonates. R. J. Meyer (Zeit. anorg,. Chem., 1904, 41, p. 97) separates the cerium earths by forming the double potassium carbonates, e.g. K2Ce2(COs)4 . 32H2 0, which are soluble in potassium carbonate solution, being precipitated in the order lanthanum, praseodymium, cerium and iieodymium on diluting the solution; C. A. von Welsbach (Chem. News, 1907, 95» P- 196; 1908, 98, pp. 223, 297) separates the metals of the ytterbium group by converting the basic nitrates into double ammonium oxalates and fractionating; C. James (ibid., 1907, 95, p. 181; 1908, 97, pp. 61, 205) formed the oxalates of the yttrium earths and dissolved them in ^ dilute ammonia saturated with ammonium carbonate; by boiling this solution the earths are precipitated in the order yttrium, holmium and dysprosium, and erbium; he also fractionally crystallized the bromates (see, e.g. Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc.f 1910, 32, p. 517, for thulium). Complex organic reagents are also employed. Neish (Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc.t  1904, 26, p. 780) used meta-nitrobenzoic acid; O. Holmberg separates neodymium, praseodymium and lanthanum (and also thorium) with meta-nitrobenzene sulphonic acid, and has investigated many other organic salts (see A bs. J. C. £., 1907, ii. p. 90), whilst H. Erdmann and F. Wirth (Ann.f 1908, 361, p. 180) employ the i-8 naphthol sulphonates.
In order to determine whether any chosen method for separating these earths is really effective, it is necessary to analyse the fractions. For this purpose two processes are available. We may convert the salt into the oxalate from which the oxide is obtained by heating. A weighed quantity of the oxide is now taken and converted into sulphate by evaporating wdth dilute sulphuric acid. The sulphate is gently dried until the weight is constant, and from this weight the equivalent of the earth can be calculated. When repeated fractionation is attended by no change in the equivalent we may conclude that only one element is present. This process, however, is only rough, for the elements with which we are dealing have very close equivalents. A more exact method employs the
spectra—spark, arc, phosphorescence and absorption; the evidence, however, cannot in all cases be accepted as conclusive, but when taken in conjunction with chemical tests it is the most valuable method.
Chemical Relations.—The rare earth metals were at first regarded as divalent, but determinations of the specific heats of cerium by Mendeleeff and Hillebrand and of lanthanum and didymium by Hillebrand pointed to their trivalency; and this view now has general acceptance. They are comparatively reactive: they burn in air to form oxides of the type MezOs; combine directly with hydrogen at 2oo°-300° to form hydrides of the formula MHa or MHa ; nitrides of the formula MN are formed by passing nitrogen over the oxides mixed with magnesium; whilst carbides of the type MC2 are obtained in the electrolytic reduction of the oxides with carbon. In addition to the oxides M2O3, several, e.g. cerium, terbium and neodymium, form oxides of the formula MO2. The sesquioxides are bases which form salts and increase in basicity in the order Sc, Yb, Tm, Er, Ho, Tb, Gd, Sm, Y, Ce, Nd, Pr, La; the latter hissing with water like quicklime.
The placing of these elements in the periodic table has attracted much attention on account of the many difficulties which it presented. The simplest plan of regarding them all as trivalent and placing them in the third group is met by the fact that there is not room for them. Another scheme scatters them in the order of their atomic weights in the last four groups of the system, but grave objections have been urged against this plan. A third device places them in one group as a bridge between barium and tantalum. This was suggested by Benedick in 1904 (Zeit. anorg. Ckem.t 1904,39, p. 41), and adopted in Werner's table of. 1905 (Ber. 38, p. 914), whilst in 1902 Brauner (ibid. 32, p. 18) placed the group as a bridge on a plane perpendicular to the planes containing the other elements, thus expanding the table into a three-dimensional figure. The question has also been considered by Sir William Crookes (Jour. Ckem. Soc., 1888, 53» P· 487; 1889, 55, pp. 257 et seq.), whose inquiries led him to a new conception of the chemical elements.
References.—For the general chemistry see R. Bohm, Seltene Erden (1005); Abegg, Handbuch der anorganischen Chemie (1906), vol. iii. (article by R. T. Meyer); H. Moissan, Traiti de chimie minerale (1904), vol. iii. (article by G. Urbain); Roscoe and Schorlemmer, Treatise on Chemistry (1908), vo!. ii.; P. E. Browning, Introduction to the Rarer Elements (1909); see also A. W. Stewart, Recent Advances in Physical and Inorganic Chemistry (1009). For the rare earth minerals see J. Schilling, Das Vorkommen der seltenen Erden im Mineralreiche (1904).
RAS, the Arabic for a “ head,” hence a cape, promontory or headland; a common word in place names.
RASCAL, a term originally used in the sense of a rabble, especially descriptive of camp-followers or the dregs of an army, or of the lowest of the people; now only of a single person, in the sense of a rogue or knave. The origin of O.Fr. rascaille, modern racaillet from which the word came into English, is uncertain. The word was early used, in hunting, for the weaker or poorer male deer of a herd; the word has been connected with O.Fr. rascler, mod. racier, to scrape, rake, in the sense of the off-scourings of the herd.
RASHBAM (1085-1174), Jewish scholar, so called from the initials of his full name, Rabbi Samuel ben Meir, was a leading member of the French school of Biblical exegesis. He was a grandson of Rashi (?.r.), but differed in his method of interpretation. He wrote commentaries on the Pentateuch and some other parts of the Scriptures. Rashbam adopts a natural (as distinct from a homiletical and traditional) method; thus (in agreement with the modem school) Rashbam (on Gen. i. 5) maintained that the day began at dawn and not from the previous sunset (as later Jewish custom assumed). Another famous interpretation was Rashbam’s view that the much disputed phrase in Gen. xlix. 10 must be rendered “ Until he cometh to Shiloh,” and refers to the division of the kingdom of Judah after Solomon's death. Rashbam’s notes on the Bible are remarkable for brevity, but when he comments on the Talmud—he wrote explanations on several tracts—he is equally noted for prolixity.    (1. A.)
RASHI (1040-1105), Jewish scholar. Rabbi Solomon Izijaqi (son of Isaac), usually cited as Rashi from the initials of those words, was born at Troyes in 1040 and died in the same town in 1105. Legends concerning him are many. Isaac’s wife, shortly before the birth of their famous son, was walking one day down a narrow street in \Vr orms, when two vehicles moving in opposite directions seemed about to crush her. As she leant hopelessly against a wall, it miraculously fell inwards to make a niche for her. So with his education. Legend sends the student to southern France, and even on a tour of the world. At an inn in the Orient he cured a sick monk, who later on, as bishop of Olmiitz, returned the kindness by saving the Jews from massacre. In fact, Rashi never went farther than from the Seine to the Rhine; the utmost limit of his travels were the academies of Lorraine. Situated between France and Germany, Lorraine was more French than German, and French was the common language of Jew and Christian. This is shown by the glosses in Rashi’s works, almost invariably in French. He seems to have passed the decade beginning with 1055 in Worms, where the niche referred to above is still shown. Within this, it is said, Rashi was wont to teach. A small edifice on the east of the synagogue is called the “ Rashi Chapel,” and the “ Rashi Chair,” raised on three steps in the niche, is one of the objects of the pious admiration of pilgrims. At Worms Rashi worked under Jacob ben Yaqar, and at Mainz under Isaac ben Judah, perhaps combining at the same time the functions of teacher and student. Besides the oral tuition that he received, the medieval schools habitually kept the notes of former teachers. From these Rashi learned much, and probably he incorporated some of these notes in his Own works. In the middle ages there was a communism in learning, but if Rashi used some of the stones quarried and drafted by others, it was to his genius that the finished edifice was due.
Rashi was twenty-five years of age when he returned to Troyes, which town thenceforward eclipsed the cities of Lorraine and became the recognized centre of Jewish learning. Rashi acted as rabbi and judge, but received no salary. Not till the 14th century were Jewish rabbis paid officials. Rashi and his family worked in the vines of Troyes (in the Champagne); in his letters he describes the structure of the winepresses. His learning and character raised him to a position of high respect among the Jewries of Europe, though Spain and the East were long outside the range of his influence. As was said of him soon after his death: “ His lips were the seat of wisdom, and thanks to him the Law, which he examined and interpreted, has come to life again.” His posterity included several famous names, those of his grandchildren. Rashi had no sons, but his three daughters were women of culture, and two of the sons of Jochebed (see Rashbam and Tam), as well as others of his descendants, carried on the family 'tradition for learning, adding lustre to Rashi’s fame. The latter part of Rashi’s life was saddened by the incidents connected with the first Crusade. Massacres occurred in the Rhine-lands. According to legend, Rasl)i and Godfrey of Bouillon— of the foremost leaders of the Crusade—were intimate friends. Rashi died peacefully in Troyes in 1105.
Rashi was the most conspicuous medieval representative of the Jewish spirit. A century later Maimonides was to give a new turn to Jewish thought, by the assimilation of Aristotelianism with Mosaism, hut Rashi was a traditionalist pure and simple. He was in.no sense a philosopher, but he exemplified in his person and in his works the stored up wisdom of the Synagogue. Yet through all that he wrote there runs a vein of originality. Besides minor works, such as a recension of the Prayer-Book (Siddur)t the Pardes and ka-Oraht Rashi wrote two great commentaries on which his fame securely rests. These were the commentaries on the whole of the Hebrew Bible and on about thirty treatises of the Talmud. His commentary on the Pentateuch, in particular, has been printed in hundreds of editions; it is still to Jews the most beloved of all commentaries on the Mosaic books. More than a
hundred supercommentaries have been written on it. Rashi unites homily with grammatical exegesis in a manner which explains the charm of the commentary. His influence in Christian circles was great, especially because of the use made of the commentary by Nicolaus de Lyra (q.v.), who in his turn was one of the main sources of Luther's version. Even mo;e important was Rashi’s commentary on the Talmud, which became so acknowledged as the definitive interpretation that Rashi is cited simply under the epithet of “ the Commentator.” It is no exaggeration to assert that the modern world owes its power to understand the Talmud to Rashi. In this field the “ Commentator ” is supreme. He practically edited the text of the Talmud besides explaining it, and the Talmud is never printed without Rashi’s commentary on the margin. An important feature of Rashi’s commentaries is the frequency of French translations of words. These glosses (lo'azim) have now been in part edited from the manuscripts of the late Arsene Darmesteter.
Bibliography.—M. Liber, Rashi (1906), published as a memorial of Rashi on the 800th anniversary of his death. Rashi’s commentary on the Bible has been translated into Latin by Brcithaupt (1710-1714); and into German (Pentateuch) by Dukes (1833-38) and others. The foundation of recent investigation into Rashi’s life is Zunz’s Solomon b. Isaac (1823), to which 1. H. Weiss added much in his (Hebrew) biography (in Bet Talmud ii., Nos. 2-10. See also Gractz, History of the Jews (Engl, trans., vol. iii. ch. ix.). A critical edition of Rashi’s Pentateuch commentary was published by A Berliner (2nd ed., 1905).    (1. A.)
RASHTRAKUTA, an Indian dynasty which ruled in the Deccan (q.v.) from about a.d. 750 to 973. The Rashtrakuta or Ratta clan are supposed to have held power during the historical blank before the 6th century; but they came to the front in a.d. 750, when Dantidurga overthrew the Chalukya dynasty and made himself ruler of the Deccan. He was succeeded by his uncle Krishna I. (c. 760), who completed his conquests, and whose reign is memorable for the execution of the Kailasa, the rock-cut temple at Ellora. His grandson Govinda III. (780-815) extended the power of tfie family from the Vindhya Mountains and Malwa on the north to Kanehi on the south. The next king, Amogavarsha, reigned for sixty-two years. The reign of Krishna III. was remarkable for a war with the Cholas, in which the Chola king was killed on the field of battle in 949. The last of the Rashtrakuta kings was Karka II., who w7 as overthrown by the Chalukyas in 973.
See R. G. Bhandarkar, Early History of the Deccan (Bombay,· 1884).
RASK, RASMUS CHRISTIAN (1787-1832), Danish scholar and philologist,* was born at Brändekilde in the island of Fünen or Fyen in Denmark in 1787. He studied at the university of Copenhagen, and at once showed remarkable talent for the acquisition of languages. In 1808 he was appointed assistant keeper of the university library, and some years afterwards professor of literary history. In 1811 he published, in Danish, his Introduction to the Grammar of the Icelandic a fid other Ancient Northern Languages, from printed and MS. materials accumulated by his predecessors in the same field of research. The reputation which Rask thus acquired recommended him to the Arna-Magnaean Institution, by which he was employed as editor of the Icelandic Lexicon (1814) of Björn Haldorson, which had long remained in manuscript. Rask visited Iceland, where he remained from 1813 to 1815, mastering the language and familiarizing himself with the literature, manners and customs of the natives. To the interest with which they inspired him may probably be attributed the establishment at Copenhagen, early in 1816, of the Icelandic Literary Society, of which he was the first president.
. In October 1816 Rask left Denmark on a literary expedition, at the cost of the king, to prosecute inquiries into the languages of the East, and collect manuscripts for the university library at Copenhagen. He proceeded first to Sweden, where he remained two years, in the course of which he made an excursion into Finland to study the language. Here he published, in Swedish, his Anglo-Saxon Grammar in 1817. In 1818 there appeared at Copenhagen, in Danish, an Essay on the Origin of the Ancient Scandinavian or Icelandic Tongtte, in which he traced the affinity of that idiom to the other European languages, particularly Latin and Greek. In the same year he brought out the first complete editions of Snorro’s Edda and Saemund’s Edda, in the original text, along with Swedish translations of both Eddas. From Stockholm he went in 1819 to St Petersburg, where he wrote, in German, a paper on “ The Languages and Literature of Norway, Iceland, Sweden and Finland,” in the sixth number of the Vienna Jahrbiichcr. From Russia he proceeded through Tartary into Persia, and resided for some time at Tabriz, Teheran, Persepolis and Shiraz. In about six weeks he made himself sufficiently master of Persian to be able to converse freely. In 1820 he embarked at Bushire for Bombay; and during his residence there he wrote, in English, “ A Dissertation on the Authenticity of the Zend Language” (Trans. Lit. Soc. of Bombay, vol. iii., reprinted with corrections and additions in Trans. R. As. Soc.). From Bombay he proceeded through India to Ceylon, where he arrived in 1822, and soon afterwards wrote, in English, “ A Dissertation respecting the best Method of expressing the Sounds of the Indian Languages in European Characters,” in the Transactions of the Literary and Agricultural Society of Colombo. Rask returned to Copenhagen in May 1823, bringing a considerable number of Oriental manuscripts, Persian, Zend, Pali, Sinhalese and others, with which he enriched the collections of the Danish capital. He died at Copenhagen on the 14th of November 1832.
During the period between his return from the East and his death Rask published in his native language a Spanish Grammar (1824), a Frtsic Grammar (1825), an Essay on Danish Orthography (1826), a Treatise respecting the Ancient Egyptian Chronology and an Italian Grammar, (1827), and the Ancient Jewish Chronology pervious to Moses (1828). He also edited an edition of Schneider’s Danish Grammar for the use of Englishmen (1830), and superintended the English translation of his Anglo-Saxon Grammar by Thorpe (1830). He was the first to point out the connexion between the ancient Northern a’nd Gothic on the one hand, and the Lithuanian, Sclavonic, Greek and Latin on the other, and he also deserves credit for having had the original idea of “ Grimm’s Law ” for the transmutation of consonants in the transition from the old Indo-European languages to Teutonic, although he only compared Teutonic and Greek, Sanskrit being at the time unknown to him. In 1822 he was master of no less than twenty-five languages and dialects, and is stated to have studied twice as many. His numerous philological manuscripts were transferred to the king’s library at Copenhagen. Rask’s Anglo-Saxon, Danish and Icclaridic Grammars were brought out in English editions by Thorpe, Repp and Dascnt respectively.
RASPBERRY, known botanically as Rubus Idaetis (nat. ord. Rosaceae, q.v.), a fruit-bush found wild in Great Britain and in woods throughout Europe, North Africa and in north and west Asia. The raspberry was known to classic writers, and is mentioned by Pliny as one of the wild brambles known to the Greeks as Idea, from Mt. Ida in Asia Minor on which it grew. Parkinson (Paradisus, 1629) speaks of red, white and thornless varieties as suitable for the English climate,· and Gerarde (Herbal, 1597) figures and describes the Raspis or Framboise bush as one of the four kinds of bramble. It is propagated from suckers, which may be taken off the parent stools in October, and planted in rows 5 or 6 ft. apart, and at 3 ft. asunder in the rows. It is the habit of the plant to throw up from the root every year a number of shoots or canes, which bear fruit in the subsequent year, and then decay. In dressing the plants, which is done immediately after the crop is gathered, all these exhausted stems are cut away, and of the young canes only three or four of the strongest are left, which are shortened about a third. The stems, being too weak to stand by themselves, are sometimes connected together by the points in the form of arches, or a stake is driven in midway between the plants, and half the canes are bent one way and half the other, both being tied to the stake. Sometimes they are tied upright to stakes fixed to each stool. The best support, however, is obtained by fastening the points of the shoots to a slight horizontal rail or bar, placed a foot and a half on the south side of the rows,
by which means the bearing shoots are deflected from the perpendicular to the sunny side of the row, and arc not shaded, by the annual wood. When this mode of training is adopted, the plan of planting i foot apart in the row and leaving one or two canes only to each shoot is preferable. The ground between the rows should never he disturbed by deep digging; but an abundant supply of good manure should be given annually in autumn as a dressing, which should be forked in regularly to a depth of 4 or 5 inches. All surplus suckers should be got away early in the summer before they have robbed the roots—five or six, to be reduced to the four test, being reserved to each root. Fresh plantations of raspberries should be made every six or seven years. The double-bearing varieties, which continue to fruit during autumn, require light soils and warm situations. These should be cut close down in February, as it is the strong young shoots of the current year which bear the late autumnal crops. The other varieties may be made to bear in autumn by cutting the stems half-way down at an early period in spring; but, as with all other fruits, the flavour of the raspberry is best when it is allowed to ripen at its natural season.
The following are some of the finer sorts now in cultivation:—
Baumforth's Seedling—a large summer-bearing red.
Carter's Prolific—a large summer-bearing red.
Fastolf or Filby^-n large summer-bearing red.
M'Laren's Prolific—a large double-bearing red.
Northumberland Fillbasket—a large summer red.
October Red—a fine autumn-beanng red.
October Yellow—a fine autumn-bearing yellow.
Prince of Wales—a large summer-bearing red.
Red Antwerp—a large summer-bearing red.
Rogers's Victoria—a large autumn-bearing red.
Round Antwerp—a large summer-bearing red.
Semper Fidelis—an excellent bright red variety; heavy cropper.
Superlative—fruits rich red; perhaps the best raspberry in cultivation.
Sweet Yellow Antwerp—a large summer-bearing yellow.
The European raspberry, though admittedly of better quality, has been largely displaced in the United States of America by a closely allied native species, R. strigosus, the numerous varieties of which are hardier than the varieties of the European species and ripen their crop much more rapidly. The stems are more slender and flexible than in R. Idaeus, usually brown or reddish-brown in colour and beset with stiff straight prickles. The most important raspberry of cultivation in America is R. occidentalism the black raspberry or thimbleberry, which is at once distinguished by its firm black, rarely yellow, fruit. The purple-cane raspberry, R. neglcctus, with fruit varying in colour from dull purple to dark red or sometimes yellowish, is perhaps a hybrid between R. slrigosus and R. occidenlalis.
For a detailed account of the American species of Rubus see F. W. Card, Bush-fruits (1898).
The Loganberry is a hybrid between the raspberry (Rubus Idaeus) and the blackberry or bramble (R. fruticosus), and derives its name from its raiser, Judge Logan of the American Bar. It is a strong-growing plant, partaking more of the habit of the blackberry than the raspberry, and making shoots often 10 to 15 ft. long in the course of the year. These bear leaves with 5 leaflets, and fruit the following year. The fruiting shoots have leaves with only 3 leaflets; but young and old stems are densely covered with sharp crimson prickles. The fruits are borne profusely in loose trusses, and are ripe in southern localities in July, and about early August in northern parts. They are at first reddish like raspberries in a half-ripened state, but when fully ripe are deep purplish red, and much more palatable, each fruit being about i£ in. long, and shaped like a raspberry.
The Loganberry flourishes in heavy loamy soil, and is a useful plant for old fences or trellises, or even in waste places, where it is fully exposed to the sunshine. The old fruiting shoots should be cut away each winter, and in the spring the young shoots should have a foot or two taken off the ends, to induce the better and riper buds lower down to throw masses of white flowers, to be succeeded in due course by the fruits. Propagation is by means of suckers from the base.
RASPE, RUDOLF ERICH (1737-1794), the original author of the Adventures of Baron Munchausen (see Munchausen), was born in Hanover in 1737, and studied at Gottingen and Leipzig. In 1762 he became a clerk in the university library at Hanover, and in 1764 secretary to the university library at Gottingen. He had become known as a versatile scholar and a student of natural history and antiquities, and he published some original poems and also translations, among the latter of Leibnitz’s philosophical works and of Ossian’s poems; he also wrote a treatise on Percy’s Rcliques. In 1767 he was appointed professor in Cassel, .and subsequently librarian. He contributed in 1769 a zoological paper to the 59th volume of the Philosophical Transactionst which led to his being selected an honorary member of the Royal Society in London, and he wrote voluminously on all sorts of subjects. In 1774 he started a periodical called the Cassel Spectator. But having gone to Italy in 1775 to buy curios for the landgrave of Hesse, to whom he was keeper of the gems, he was found to have sold the landgrave’s valuables for his own profit; and, on orders being issued for his arrest, he decamped to England. In London he employed his knowledge of English and his learning to secure a living by publishing books on various subjects, and English translations of German works, and there are allusions to him as “ a Dutch savant ” in 1780 in the writings of Horace Walpole, who gave him money and helped him to publish an Essay on the Origin of Oil-painting (1781). But he remained poor, and the Royal Society expunged his name off its list. He went to Cornwall in 1782, and till about 1788 was assay-master and storekeeper at the Dolcoath mine, where memories of his ingenuity remained to the middle of the 19th century. While there, he seems to have written the original version of Munchausen, which was subsequently elaborated by others. Between 1785 and 1790 he compiled a descriptive catalogue of James Tassie’s collection of pastes and casts of gems, in two quarto volumes (1791) of laborious industry and bibliographical rarity. Raspe then went to Scotland, and in Caithness found a patron in Sir John Sinclair of Ulbster, whose mineralogical proclivities he proceeded to impose upon by pretending to discover valuable and workable veins on his estates; but Raspe had “ salted ” the ground himself, and on the verge of exposure, he absconded. He next betook himself to Ireland, but died at Muckross in 1794, when he was only beginning some mining operations in Donegal. His career is interesting because of his connexion with the famous book of stories of Baron Munchausen (q.v.). His authorship wT as not known in his lifetime, except to his friend Gottfried August Burger and possibly a few of his other intimates (such as Kiistner and Lichtenburg) in his student days at Gottingen; and it was not till 1824 that the biographer of Burger (who had been credited with writing Munchausen instead of only translating it, as he did in 1786) revealed the truth about the book.
RASSAM, HORMUZD (1826-1910), Assyriologist and traveller, was born at Mosul of native Christian parents. His first work was done as assistant to Sir A. H. Layard in his first expedition (1845-47). He subsequently came to England, studied at Oxford, and was again sent by the British Museum trustees to accompany Layard in his second expedition (1849-51). Layard having entered upon a political career, Rassam continued the work (1852-54) in Assyria under the direction of the British Museum and Sir Henry Rawlinson at Nunrud and Kuyunjik. In 1866 he was sent by the British government to Abyssinia, where, however, he wf as imprisoned for two years until freed by the victory of Sir Robert Napier. From 1S76 to 1882 he was again in Assyria conducting important investigations, especially at Nineveh, and during the Russo-Turkish War he was sent on a mission of inquiry to report on the condition of the Christian communities of Asia Minor and Armenia. His archaeological work resulted in many important discoveries and the collection of valuable epigraphical evidence.
See The Timest Sept. 17, 1910.
RASTATT, a town of Germany, in the grand duchy of Baden, on the Murg, 4 m. above its junction with the Rhine and 15 m.
by rail S.W. of Karlsruhe. Pop. (1905) 14,404* The old palace of the margraves of Baden, a large Renaissance edifice in red sandstone, is now partly used for military purposes and contains a collection of pictures, antiquities and trophies from the Turkish wars. The chief manufactures are stoves, beer and tobacco. Until the end of the 17th century Rastatt was unimportant, but after its destruction by the -French in 1689 it was rebuilt on a larger scale by Louis William, margrave of Baden, the imperial general in the Turkish wars. It was then the residence of the margraves until 1771. The Baden revolution of 1849 began with a mutiny of soldiers at Rastatt in May 1849, and ended here a few weeks later with the capture of the town by the Prussians. For some years Rastatt was one of the strongest fortresses of the German empire, but its fortifications were dismantled in 1890.
See Schuster, Rastatt, die ehemalige badiscke Residenz und Bundes-festung (Lahr, 1902); and Lederle, Rastatt und seine Umgebung (Rastatt, 1905).
Rastatt has been the scene of two congresses. At the first congress, which was opened in November 1713, negotiations were carried on between France and Austria for the purpose of ending the war of the Spanish succession. These culminated in the treaty of Rastatt signed on the 7th of March 1714. ‘The second congress, which was opened in December 1797, was intended to rearrange the map of Germany by providing compensation for those princes whose lands on the left bank of the Rhine had been seized by France. It had no result, however, as it was ended by the outbreak of the European war, but it had a sequel of some interest. As the three French representatives were leaving the town in April 1799 they were waylaid, and two of them were assassinated by some Hungarian soldiers. The origin of this outrage remains shrouded in mystery, but the balance of evidence seems to show that the Austrian authorities had commanded their men to seize the papers of the French plenipotentiaries in order to avoid damaging disclosures about Austria's designs on Bavaria, and that the soldiers had exceeded their instructions. On the other hand, some authorities think that the deed was the work of French emigrants, or of the party in France in favour of war.
For fuller particulars of the two sides of this controversy see K. Mendelssohn-Bartholdy, Der Rastadter Gesandtenmord (Heidelberg, 1869); J. A. Freiherr von Helfert, Der Rastadter'Gesandtenmord (Vienna, 1874) ; Bòhtlingk, Napoleon und der Rastadter Gesand-tenmord (Leipzig, 1883); and Zum Rastadter Gesandtenmord (Heidelberg, 1895); H. Hiiffer, Der Rastadter Gesandtenmord (Bonn, 1896) ; and H. von Sybel, in Band 39 of the Historische ZeitschrifL
RASTELL (or Rastall), JOHN (d. 1536), English printer and author, was born in London towards the end of the 15th century. He is vaguely reported by Anthony à Wood to have been “educated for a time in grammaticals and philosophicals ” at Oxford. He became a member of Lincoln's Inn, and practised successfully as a barrister. He was also M.P. for Dunheved, Cornwall, from 1529 to the time of his death. He began his*printing business some time before 1516, for in his preface to the undated Liber Assisarum he announced the forthcoming publication of Sir A. Fitzherbcrt's Abbreviamenlum librorutn legum Anglorum, dated 1516. Among the works issued from the “ sygne of the meremayd at Powlysgate,” where he lived and worked from 1520 onwards, are The Mery Gestys of the Wydow Edyth (1525), and A Dyaloge of Syr Thomas More (1529). The last of his dated publications was FabyVs Ghoste (1533), a poem. In 1530 he wrote, in defence of the Roman doctrine of Purgatory, A New Boke of Purga lory (1530), dialogues on the subject between “ Comyngs and Almayn a Christen man, and one Gyngemyn a Turke.” This was answered by John Frith in A Disputación of Purgatorie. Ras-tell replied with an Apology against John FrythT also answered by the latter. Rastell had married Elizabeth, sister of Sir Thomas More, with whose Catholic theology and political views he was in sympathy. More had begun the controversy with John Frith, and Rastell joined him in attacking the Protestant writer, who, says Foxe (Actes and Monuments, ed. G. Townsend, voi. v. p. 9), did so “ overthrow and confound ” his adversaries
that he converted Rastell to his side. Separated from his Catholic friends, Rastell does not seem to have been fully trusted by the opposite party, for in a letter to Cromwell, written' probably in 1536, he says that he had spent his time in upholding the king's cause and opposing the pope, with the result that he had lost both his printing business and his legal practice, and was reduced to poverty. He was imprisoned in 1536, perhaps because he had written against the payment of tithes. .He probably died in prison, and his will, of which Henry VIII. had originally been appointed an executor, was proved on the 18th of July 1536. He left two sons: William, noticed below, and John. The Jesuit, John Rastell (1532-1577), who has been frequently confounded with him, was no relation.
Rastell’s best-known work is The Pastyme of People, the Chrony-cles of dyvers Realmys and most specially of the Realme of England (1529), a chronicle dealing with English history from the earliest times to the reign of Richard III., edited by T. F. Dibdin in 1811. His Expositiones terminorum legum Angliae (in French, translated into English, 1527; reprinted 1629, 1636, 1641, &c., as Les Termes de la Ley), and The Abbreviacion of Statutis (1519), of which fifteen editions appeared before 1625, are the best known of his legal works.
Rastell was also the author of a morality play, A new Interlude and a Mery of the mi Elements, written about 1519, which is no doubt the “ large and ingenious comedy ” attributed to him by Wood. The unique copy in the British Museum is incomplete, and contains neither the date nor the name of the author, identified with John Rastell on the authority of Bale, who catalogues Natura Naturata among his works, adding a Latin version of the first line of the piece. This interlude was printed in W. C. Hazlitt’s edition of Dodsley’s Old English Plays, by J. O. Halliwell-Phillipps for the Percy Soc. (Early English Poetry, vol. 22, 1848), and by Julius Fischer (Marburger Studien zur englischen Philologie, vol. v., 1903). See also an article on “John Rastell and his Contemporaries ” in Bibliographica, vol. 11, 437 seq., by Mr. H. R. Plomer, who unearthed in the Record Office an account of a law-suit (1534-35) in connexion with Rastell’s premises at the “ Mermaid.” For the books issued from his press see a catalogue by R. Proctor, in 7land-Lists of English Printers (Bibliographical Soc., 1896).
RASTELL, WILLIAM (c. 1508-1565), English printer and judge, son of the preceding, was born in London about 1508. At the age of seventeen he went to the university of Oxford, but did not take a degree, being probably called home to superintend his father's business. The first work which bears his own imprint was A Dyaloge of Sir Thomas More (153/), a reprint of the edition published by his father in 1529. He also brought out a few law-books, some poetry, an edition of Fabyan's Cronycle (1533), and The Apologye (1533) and The Supply -cacyon of Soulys of his uncle Sir Thomas More. His office was “ in Fletestrete in saynt Brydys chyrche yarde." He became a student at Lincoln's Inn on 12th September 1532, and gave up the printing business two years later. In 1547 he was .appointed reader. On .account of his Catholic convictions he left England for Louvain; but upon the accession of Mary he returned, and was made serjeant-at-law and treasurer of Lincoln's Inn in 1555. His patent as judge of the Queen's Bench was granted on the 27th of October 1558. Rastell continued on the bench'until 1562, when he retired to Louvain without the queen's licence. By virtue of a special commission issued by the barons of the Exchequer on the occasion an inventory of his goods and chattels was taken. It furnishes an excellent idea of the modest nature of the' law library (consisting of twenty-four works) and of the chambers of an Elizabethan judge (see Law Magazine, February 1844). He died at Louvain on the 27th of August 1565.
It is difficulty to distinguish between the books written by him and those by his father. The following.are believed to be his: A Colleccion of all the Statutes (1550), A Table cotlected of the Yeares of the Kynges of Englande (1561), both frequently reprinted with continuations, and A Colleccion of Entrees, of Declarations, &c. (1566), also frequently reprinted. The entries are not of Rastell’s own drawing, but have been selected from printed and MS. collections; their “pointed brevity and precision ” are commended by Story. He supplied tables or indexes to several law-books, and edited La novel natura brevium de- Monsieur Anton. Fitzherbert (1534) and The Workes of Sir T. More in the English Tonge (1557)-He is also stated to have written a life of Sir T. More, but it has not come down to us.
RASTENBURG, a town of Germany, in the province of East Prussia, lying in a flat sandy plain on the Guber, 64 m. S.E. of Konigsberg by the railway to Prostken. Pop. (i9°s) 11,889. Its principal manufactures arc flour, sugar, oil, beer and machinery. In the vicinity is Karlshof, a celebrated establishment for the cure of epileptic diseases.
See Beckherm, Mittheilungen axis Rastenburgs Vergangenheit (Rastenburg, 1891); and Schaffer, Chronik von Rastenburg (Rastenburg, 1889).
RAT (a word common to Tout, and Rom. languages; probably first adopted in Tcut.; the ultimate origin is not known; Skeat suggests the root rod-, to scratch; cf. Ger. Ratte,Dan. rolle, Fr. rat, &c.), probably in its original sense the designation of the British rodent mammal commonly known as the black rat (Mus rattus), but also applied indifferently to the brown or Norway rat (M. twrvegicus), and in a still wider sense to all the larger representatives of the genus Mus, as to many other members of the family Muridae. In fact, as mentioned in the article Mouse, there is no possibility of defining the term “ rat ” when used in a sense other than as relating to the two species above mentioned; while there is also no hard-and-fast limit between the terms “ rats ” and “ mice ” when these are likewise employed in their now extended sense, “ rats ” being merely larger “ mice, ” and vice versa. Rats have, however, generally more rows of scales
on the tail (reaching to 210 or more) than mice, in which the number    does    not
exceed 180. For the distinctive characteristics of the family Muridae and    the
genus Mus, to which true rats and true mice alike belong, see Rodentia. Of the two British species the brown, or Norway rat (M. norvegi-cus) is distinguished by its    large    size,
brownish grey colour, short tail and ears, stout skull, and the possession of from 10 to 12 teats. It is fierce and cunning, and    easily    overcomes    all    allied    species with    which    it is
brought in contact. Its original home_ would seem to have been some part of Central Asia, an indigenous ..species from China,    A/.    humiliatus,    being    so    like    it that    in all    prob
ability the latter is the original race from which it has sprung. Thence it has spread to all parts of the world, driving out the house-haunting species everywhere, as it has in England all but exterminated the black rat. The brown rat migrated westwards from Central Asia early in the 18th century, and is believed to have first reached Great Britain about 1730. Its already evil reputation has been increased of late years by the fact that it is one of the chief disseminators of bubonic plague. Black phases are not uncommon. -The black rat (M. raiius) is distinguishable from the brown rat by its smaller size,' longer ears and tail, and glossy black colour. It shares the roving habits of the latter, frequenting ships and by these means reaching various parts of the world. On this account either the typical form or the tropical A/, rattus alex-andrinus is common in many places to which the brown species has not yet penetrated, for instance in South America. This long-tailed rat, originally a native of India, would seem to have first penetrated to all parts of the wT orld and to have nearly or quite exterminated the indigenous rats. After this followed the advance of the more powerful brown rat. The black rat first reached Europe in the 13th century; but of late years another and still darker phase of the species, the Black Sea black rat (A/, rattus atcr) made its appearance in
England. The Isle of Dogs and Yarmouth, in Norfolk, are reported to be the chief of the English strongholds of the black rat. Both species agree in their predaceous habits, omnivorous diet and great fecundity. They bear, four or five times in the year, from four to ten blind and naked young, which are in their turn able to breed at an age of about six months; the time of gestation being about twenty days.
See J. G. Millais, " The True Position of Mus rattus and its Allies,” Zoologist, June 1905.    (R. L.*)
RATAFIA, a liqueur or cordial flavoured with peach or cherry kernels, bitter almonds, or other fruits; many different varieties are made. The same name is given to a flavouring essence resembling bitter almonds, and also to a light biscuit. The word is adapted from the French of the 17 th century. Skeat (Etym. Diet., 1910) quotes as a possible origin a combination of Malay araq, arrack, and tafia, rum.
RATE, a general term for proportion, standard, allowance, tax (Med. Lat. rata, from pro rata parte, ratus being tho participle of rm, to think, judge). In England the term is specially applied to the levying of public money contributions for local purposes, as distinguished from the “ taxes ” raised for what are treated as general state purposes. The money required for local administration in England is raised (when the ordinary revenues are insufficient) by assessments on lands and buildings based on their annual rental value. The financial authority estimates what additional amount beyond revenue is required for the expenses of administration, and levies a rate to meet it. The earliest rate levied in England was that for poor relief, and of the great variety of rates now existing, the majority are based on the poor rate and levied with it, under the term of precept rates. Next to the poor rate came that for highways, and other special rates have been authorized from time to time, as for police, education, public lighting, cemeteries, libraries, sanitary purposes, &c. To distinguish the rate the name of the precepting authority is frequently added or the purpose for which it is levied specified* as county rate, watch rate, &c. The valuation list of a parish is the basis on which the poor rate is levied. This valuation list contains the gross estimated rental and rateable value of all rateable property in the parish. The gross estimated rental is the rent at which a property might reasonably be expected to let from year to year, the tenant paying tithes, rates and taxes. From this is deducted the average annual cost of repairs, insurance and renewals, the balance constituting the rateable value. The rateable value of the parish being known, so much on each pound of the rateable value as will equal the amount required to be raised is levied, and is known as the “ rate.” See further England, Local Government; Taxation.
Rating, in maritime vocabulary, is the classification of men according to rank, and was formerly employed to class ships of a navy according to strength. A sailor is said to be “ rated A.B.,” or in the navy “ rated petty officer,” “ seaman,” “ gunner,” and so on. The rating of ships began in the 17th century, and was at first done roughly by size and number of crew. Later the rating was by guns. Thus in 1741 in the British navy there were six rates: 1st, 100 guns; 2nd, 90; 3rd, 70 to 80; 4th, 50 to 60; 5tb, 40; and 6th, 20. Sloops, fireships, bo mb-vessels and royal yachts were said to be not rated. The classification of ships into six rates, and into rated and non-rated ships, continued during the existence of the old sailing fleets, with modifications in detail. The practice of other navies was similar to the British.
RATEL, or Honey-Badger, the name of certain Indian and African small clumsy-looking creatures of about the size and appearance of badgers, representing the genus Mcllivora in the family Mustelidae (see Carnivora). Two species of ratel arc commonly recognized, the Indian (A/, indica), and the African (A/, raid), which ranges over Africa, but a black ratel from the Ituri forest has been separated as A/, cottoni. Both the two former are iron-grey on the upper parts, and black below, a style of coloration rare among mammals, as the upper side of the body is in the great majority darker than the lower.
The body is stout and thickly built; the legs are short and strong, and armed, especially the anterior pair, with long curved claws; the tail is short; and the ears are reduced to rudiments. The skull is conical, stout and heavy, and the teeth, although sharper and less rounded than those of badgers, are less suited to a carnivorous diet than those of stoats, weasels and martens. The two ratels may be distinguished by the fact that the African species has a distinct white line round the body at the junction of the grey of the upper side with the black of the lower, while in the Indian this line is absent; the teeth also of the former are larger, rounder and heavier than those of the latter. The two are, however, so nearly allied that they might almost be considered geographical races of a single species. Dr T. C. Jerdon states that the Indian ratel is found throughout the
whole of India, from the extreme south to the foot of the Himalaya, chiefly in hilly districts, where it has greater facilities for constructing the holes and dens in which it lives; but also in the north of India in alluvial plains, where the banks of large rivers afford equally suitable localities wherein to make its lair. It is stated to live usually in pairs, and to eat rats, birds, frogs, white ants and various insects, and in the north of India it is accused of digging out dead bodies, and several of the native names mean “ grave-digger. ” Dr W. T. Blanford, in the Fauna of British India, is of opinion that the reproach is without foundation. Like its Cape congener it occasionally partakes of honey, and is often destructive to poultry. In confinement the Indian ratel becomes tame and even playful, displaying a habit of tumbling head over heels.    (R. L.*)
RATH, GERHARD VOM (1830-1888), German mineralogist, was born at Dinsburg in Prussia, on the 20th of August 1830. He was educated at Cologne, at Bonn University, and finally at Berlin, where he graduated Ph.D. in 1853. In 1856 he became assistant to Nöggerath in the mineralogical museum at Bonn, and succeeded to the directorship in 1872. Meanwhile in 1863 he was appointed extraordinary professor of geology, and in 1872 he became professor of geology and mineralogy in the university at Bonn. He was distinguished for his accurate researches on mineralogy and crystallography; he described a great many new minerals, some of which were discovered by him, and he contributed largely to our knowledge of other minerals, notably in an essay on tridymite. He travelled much in southern Europe, Palestine and the United States, and wrote several essays on petrology, geology and physical geography, on earthquakes and on meteorites. He died at Coblenz on the 23rd of April 1888.
His separate publications included Ein Ausflug nach Kalabrien (1871); Der Monzoni im südöstlichen Tirol (1875); an d Durch
Italien und Griechenland nach dem Heiligen Land (2 vols., 1882). See Obituary with bibliography by Professor H. Laspeyres, in Sitzungsbericht des nat. Vereins der preussischen Rheinlande (1888).
RATHENOW, a town of Germany, in the Prussian province of Brandenburg, on the Havel, 45 m. N.W. of Berlin on the main railway to Hanover. Pop. (1905) 23,095, including the garrison. The Protestant church of St Mary and St Andrew, originally a basilica, and transformed to the Gothic style in 1517-1589, and the Roman Catholic church of St George, are noteworthy. Rathenow is known for its “ Rathenow stones, ” bricks made of the clay of the Havel, and for its spectacles and optical instruments, which are exported.
Rathenow received its incorporation as a town in 1295. In 1394 it was taken and partly destroyed by the archbishop of Magdeburg. It suffered much from the ravages of the Thirty Years’ War, being occupied in turn by the Saxons and the Swedes, from whom in 1675 it was taken by the Brandenburgers, when most of the garrison were put to the sword.
See Wagener, Denkwürdigkeiten der Stadt Rathenow (Berlin,
1903).
RATIBOR (Polish Raciborz), a town of Germany, in the Prussian province of Silesia, pleasantly situated on the left bank of the Oder at the point where the river becomes navigable, 13 m. from the Austrian frontier and 97 m. by rail S.E. of Breslau, on the main line to Öderberg. Pop. (1905) 32,690. The most prominent buildings are the handsome law-courts by Schinkel and the imposing chateau of the dukes of Ratibor, which occupies a commanding position on the right bank of the Oder. The town is the seat of various industries, the chief products of which are machinery, railway gear, iron wares, tobacco, cigars, paper, sugar, furniture and glass. Trade is carried on in these and in coal, wood and agricultural produce, while hemp and vegetables are largely grown in the environs.
Ratibor, which received municipal privileges in 1217, was formerly the capital of an independent duchy, 380 sq. m. in extent, which existed from 1288 to 1532, and afterwards passed successively into the hands of Austria and Prussia. In 1821 a small mediate principality was formed out of the old lordship of Ratibor and certain ecclesiastical domains, and was conferred upon Victor Amadeus, landgrave of Hesse-Rotenburg, as compensation for some Hessian territory absorbed by Prussia. The title of duke of Ratibor was revived in 1840 for his heir, Prince Victor of Hohenlohe-Schillingsfürst (1818-1893).
See A. Weitzel, Geschichte der Stadt und Herrschaft Ratibor (2nd ed., Ratibor, 1881).
RATIONALISM (from Lat. rationalise pertaining to reason, ratio), a term employed both in philosophy and in theology for any system which sets up human reason as the final criterion and chief source of knowledge. Such systems are opposed to all doctrines which rest solely or ultimately upon external authority; the individual must investigate everything for himself and abandon any position the validity of which cannot be rationally demonstrated. The rationalist spirit -is, of course, coeval with human evolution; religion itself began with a rational attempt to maintain amicable relations with unknown powers, and each one of the dead religions succumbed before the development of rationalist inquiry into its premises. But the term has acquired more special connotations in modern thought. In its commonest use it is applied to all who decline to accept the authority of the Bible as the infallible record of a divine revelation, and is practically synonymous with free-thinking. This type of rationalism is based largely upon the results of modem historical and archaeological investigation. The story of the Creation in the book of Genesis is shown, from the point of view of chronology, to be a poetic or symbolic account by the discovery of civilizations of much greater antiquity. Again, the study of comparative religion (e. g. the study of the Deluge (q.v.), showing as it does that similar stories are to be found in primitive literature, both oriental and other) has placed the Bible in close relation with other ancient literature. The Bible, especially the Old Testament, is thus regarded even by orthodox Christians from a rationalist standpoint,
very different from that of the early and medieval Church. Rationalism within the Christian Church differs, however, from that which is commonly understood by the term, inasmuch as it accepts as revealed the fundamental facts of its creed. Thoroughgoing rationalism, on the other hand, cither categorically denies that the supernatural or the infinites— whether it exist or not—can be the object of human knowledge (sec Agnosticism), or else, in the mouth of a single person, states that he at least has no such knowledge. In addition to the difficulties presented by the Bible as an historical record, and the literary problems which textual and other critics have investigated, the modern freethinker denies that the Christianity of the New Testament or its interpretation by modern theologians affords a coherent theory of human life and duty. Apart from the general use of the term for a particular attitude towards religion, two more technical uses require notice: (i) the purely philosophical, (ii) the theological.
(i)    Philosophical rationalism is that theory of knowledge which maintains that reason is in and by itself a source of knowledge, and that knowledge so derived has superior authority over knowledge acquired through sensation. This view is opposed to the various systems which regard the mind as a tabula rasa (blank tablet) in which the outside world as it were imprints itself through the senses. The opposition between rationalism and sensationalism is, however, rarely so simple and direct, inasmuch as many thinkers (e.g. Locke) have admitted both sensation and reflection. Such philosophies arc called rationalist or sensationalist according as they lay emphasis specially on the function of reason or that of the senses. More generally, philosophic rationalism is opposed* to empirical theories of knowledge, inasmuch as it regards all true knowledge as deriving deductively from fundamental elementary concepts. This attitude may be studied in Descartes, Leibnitz and Wolff. It is based on Descartes’ fundamental principle that knowledge must be clear, and seeks to give to philosophy the certainty and demonstrative character of mathematics, from the a priori principle of which all its claims arc derived. The attack made by David Hume on the causal relation led directly to the new rationalism of Kant, who argued that it was wrong to regard thought as mere analysis. A priori concepts there arc, but if they are to lead to the amplification of knowledge,’ they must be brought into relation with empirical data.
(ii)    The term “ rationalism ” in the narrow theological sense is specially used of the doctrines held by a school of German theologians and Biblical scholars which was prominent roughly between 1740 and 1836/ This rationalism within the Church was a theological manifestation of the intellectual movement known as the Enlightenment (Aujkldrung), and must be studied in close connexion with the purely philosophical rationalism already discussed. It owed much to the English deists, to the Pietistic movement, and to the French esprits forts who had already made a vigorous attack on the supernatural origin of the Scriptures. The crux of the difficulty was the doctrine of the supernatural, the relation between revealed and natural religion. The first great rationalist leader was J. S. Sender (q.v.)7 who held that true religion springs from the individual soul, and attacked the authority of the Bible in a comprehensive spirit of criticism. He ultimately reached a point at which the Bible became for him simply one of many ancient documents. At the same time he did not impugn the authority of the Church, which he regarded as useful in maintaining external unity. Among those who followed in Scmler’s path were Gruner Ernesti, J. D. Michaclis, Gricsbach, J. G. Eichhorn. This spirit was exhibited on the philosophical side by Kant who in his Die Religion innerhalb der Grenzcn dcr blossen Vernunft (1793) set forth his doctrine of rational morality (V ernunflglauben) as the only true religion. These two great rationalist movements, the critical and the philosophical, ultimately led to, or were accompanied by, the gradual reduction of religion to a system of morals based at the most on two or three fundamental religious principles. This is the rationalism known as rationalismus vulgaris, the period of which is practically from 1800 to 1833. Among its exponents were Wegschcidcr, Brctschneider and H. E. G. Paulus (qq.v.). The general attitude of German theology, however, became gradually more and more hostile, and the works of Schlcicr-machcr, though in a sense themselves rationalist, renewed the general desire for a positive Christianity. Hase’s Huttcrus Redivivus, an exposition of orthodoxy in the light of modern development, called forth a final exposition of the rationalist position by Rohr. From that time the school as such ceased to have a real existence, though the results of its work arc traceable more or less in all modern Biblical criticism, and its influence upon the attitude of modern theologians and Biblical critics can scarcely be overestimated.
See Standlin, Geschichte des Rationalismus (Gottingen, 1826): Hase, Theologische Streitschriften in Gesammelte Werke, viii. (1892); Riickcrt, Der Rationalismus (1859); Thotuck, Vorgeschichte des Rat. (1853-1861) and Geschichte des Rat. (1865): Ritschl, Christ. Lehre von der Rechtfertigung, &c. (1870), vol. i.; Benn, History of Rationalism (1906). See also histories of philosophy and theology in the 19th century, and the valuable article s.v. by O. Kirn in Herzog-Hauck, Realencyk. xvi. (1905).
RATISBONNE, LOUIS GUSTAVE FORTUNfi (1827-1900),
French man of letters, was born at Strassburg on the 29th of July 1827. He studied at the school of his native town and at the .College Henry IV. in Paris. He was connected with the Joufnal des D6bats from 1853 to 1876; became librarian of the palace of Fontainebleau in 1871, and three years later to the Senate. Louis Ratisbonne’s most important work was a verse translation of the Divina Commediat in which the original is rendered tercet by tercet into French. UEnfer (1852) was crowned by the Academy; Le Purgatoire (1857) and Le Paradis 1859) received the prix Bordin. He is also the author of some charming fables and verses for children: La Com6die enfantine (i860), Lcs Figures jeunes (1865) and others. He was literary executor of Alfred de Vigny, whose Destinies (1864) and Journal dy un pobte (1867) he published. Ratisbonne died in Paris on the 24th of September 1900.
RATITAE (from Lat. ratis, a raft), the name given by B. Mcrrem (Abh. Ak. TFw., Berlin, 1812-1813; Phys. Kl.t p. 259) to the “ flat-breasted birds,” in opposition to the Carinatae,or those which normally possess a keeled sternum. In thus dividing the birds into two great equivalent groups, he was followed only by C. L. Nitzsch (1829), T. H. Huxley (1867), P. L. Sclatcr (1880), A. Newton (1884), R. B. Sharpe (1891), whilst in most of the other numerous classifications the Ratitae (vicariously named Struthiones, Cursores, Brevipennes, Proceres) were treated as of much lower rank.
A diagnosis covering all the Ratitae (struthio, rheay easuarius, dromaeus, apteryx and the allied fossils dinornis and aepyornis) would, be as follows—(i) terrestrial birds without keel to the sternum, absolutely flightless; (ii) quadrate bone with a single proximal articulating knob; (iii) coracoid and scapula fused together and forming an open angle; (iv) normally without a pygostyle; (v) with an incisura ischiadica; (vi) rhamphotheca compound; (vii) without apteria or bare spaces in the plumage; (viii) with a complete copulatory organ, moved by skeletal muscles.
The separation of the Ratitae from the other birds, and their seemingly fundamental differences, notably the absence of the keel and of the power of flight, induced certain authors to go so far as to derive the Ratitae from the Dinosaurian reptiles, whilst Archaeopteryx (q.v.) and the Ca^natae were supposed to have sprung from some Pterosaurian or similar reptilian stock. Such vagaries require no refutation. But it is quite another question, whether the “ Ratitae ” form a natural group. Sir R. Owen was the first (Comp. Anal, and Physiol, of Vertebrates, ii. 1866) to indicate that the various Ratitae might be referable to various natural groups of the Carinatac. A. W. Forbes likewise had doubts about them. B. Lindsay (P. Z.S.y 1885, pp. 684-716, pis. lii.-lv.) found vestiges of a keel in a young rhea, and apteria in the embryonic ostrich, and she concluded that they were descendants of birds which originally possessed
the power of flight. This has been settled by M. Fiirbringer (Untersuchungen . . . 1888), and there is now no doubt that the absence of the power of flight is a secondary, not primitive, feature in the Ratitae as well as in the flightless bona fide Carinatae, e.g. Didus, and penguins. It had already been understood that the various genera of the Ratitae were the representatives of so many different groups, each of which was at least equivalent to ordinal rank, and that therefore, if the Ratitae were still to be considered a natural group, this common ancestry must be referred to a remote geological epoch. Fürbringer, however, separated Apteryx with Dinornis from the rest, combining his “ Apteryges ” with Crypturi and Galli as Alectorornithes, the latter being practically A. H. Garrod’s Galliformes, of which his “ Struthiones ” form part together with the Tinamidae or Crypturi. Relationship of this otherwise typically carinate, neotropical family with the Ratitae had already been insisted upon by T. H. Huxley; hence his term Dromaeognathae for the Crypturi. L. Stejneger (Standard Nat. Hist., iv., Boston, 1885) applied this term in a new wider sense to all the Ratitae, and recently W. P. Pycraft has revived this notion by his division of the Neornithes into Dromaeo- and Neognathae. At any rate we begin to see that some of the Ratitae, namely the Rheidae, may possibly be an early and then much modified offshoot of such of the Carinatae as are now represented by the Crypturi, whilst in another part of the world, and at a much later time, kiwis and moas have sprung from a somewhat more Galliform stock, which points to a descent from a still undivided Galliform -Tinamiform mass. Further, it is the opinion of competent ornithologists that there is affinity of the Australian emeus and cassowaries with the New Zealand moas and with the Malagasy Aepyornis. Struthio alone still stands aloof, possibly because it is the oldest and most specialized form. This genus was already typically developed in late Miocene times, and with a very wide geographical distribution (see Bird, Fossil), but of the affinities of the other mid- and early tertiary flightless birds we know nothing, and it must be emphasized that we should probably not be able to classify a truly ancestral Ratite, namely, a bird which is still to a certain extent carinate and not yet ratite. It is impossible to give a satisfactory diagnosis of such intermediate forms.
All the recent Ratitae still possess a considerable number of rather primitive characters, e.g. they are typically nidifugous; the simple structure of their neossoptiles; quintocubital; compound rhamphotheca; holorhinal nares imperviae; basi-pterygoid processes; simple articular facet of the quadrate; configuration of the palatal bones, including the large vomer; incisura ischiadica; simple hypotarsus; the thigh muscles; the copulatory organ.
We restrict the origin of the Ratitae to that great branch of still primitive Carinatae which, after separation of the Ratitae, has further developed into the legion of the Alectoromorphae,* notably Tinami- and Galliformes, together with still low Grui-formes (see Berd, Classification). From such a rudis indiges-taque moles, after it had attained an almost world-wide distribution, have arisen the various Ratitae, independently at various epochs and in various countries. Most of them are now restricted to widely separated countries of the southern hemisphere. Although loss of flight (correlated with more or less reduction of the wings and the sternal keel, and often compensated by stronger hind limbs) has occurred, and is still taking place in various groups of birds, it is quite impossible that a new Ratite can still come into existence, because the necessary primitive substratum, whence arose the true Ratitae, is no longer available. Consequently we are justified in retaining n Ratitae ” in our classification, although they are a heterogeneous, not strictly monophyletic, assembly.    (H. F. G.)
RATKE (RATCHIUS), WOLFGANG (1571-1635), German educationist, was born at Wilster, Holstein, on the 18th of October 1571, and educated at the university of Rostock. His system of education was based upon Bacon's philosophy, the principle being that of “ proceeding from things to names,” from the particular to the general, and from the mother tongue to foreign languages. In 1618 he opened schools at Augsburg and elsewhere, but at Kothen difficulties with the clergy led to his imprisonment for eight months, and after starting another school at Magdeburg in 1620 which failed, he became a wanderer and died at Erfurt on the 27th of April 1635. His ideas were far in advance of his time, but he lacked executive ability.
RATLAM (or Rutlam), a native state of central India, in the Malwa agency. Area, 902 sq. m. Its territory is closely interlaced with that of Sailana. It is held as tributary to Sindhia; but in 1819 an arrangement was made by which Sindhia engaged never to send any troops into the country or to interfere with the internal administration, and in 1861 the tribute was assigned to the British government in part payment of the Gwalior contingent. The population in 1901 was 83,773, showing a decrease of 6% in the decade; estimated revenue, £34,000; tribute, £2850. The chief, whose title is raja, is a Rahtor Rajput of the Jodhpur family. The chief Sujjan Singh succeeded in 1893, and attained full powers in 1898. The town of Ratlam is 1577 ft. above sea-level. Pop. (1901) 36,321. It is a junction on the Rajputana-Malwa railway, and an important centre of trade, especially in opium.
RATNAGIRI, a town and district of British India, in the southern division of Bombay. The town is on the seacoast, 136 m. S. of Bombay. Pop. (1901) 16,094. A leading industry is the sardine fishery, which usually takes place in January and February, and engages fleets of canoes.
The District of Ratnagiri has an area of 3998 sq. m. It forms a strip between the western Ghats and the sea, and its general character is rugged; nearly all the fertile land lies on the banks of the streams which intersect the country. The coast, about 150 m. in length, is almost uniformly rocky and dangerous. At intervals of about 10 m. a river or bay opens, sufficiently large to form a secure harbour for native craft, and the promontories at the river mouths are almost invariably crowned with the ruins of an old fort. The rivers and creeks are generally navigable for about 20 m., and afford facilities for a coasting trade. At the beginning of British rule there were no roads, and traffic was confined to places where there was water carriage; but a network of roads has been made, opening communication by hill passes with the Deccaji. Ratnagiri formed part of the dominions of the peshwa, and was annexed by the British government in 1818 on the overthrow of Baji Rao. In 1901 the population was 1,167,927, showing an increase of 6% in the decade. Ratnagiri is the home of the influential class of Chitpavan Brahmans. It also supplies factory hands to Bombay and sepoys to the native army.
RATNAPURA (i.e. “ The City of Gems ”), the chief town in the province of Sabaragamuwa, Ceylon. It is the centre of a long established industry in digging for precious stones—rubies, sapphires, cat's-eyes, &c. There is also much rice and fruit cultivation and planting of tea in the district. . Pop. of town (1901) 4084; of district 132,964.
RATON, a city and the county seat of Colfax county, New Mexico, U.S.A., in the N.E. part of the state, and about 193 m. by rail N.E. of Santa F6. Pop. (1890) 1255; (1900)^540 (337 foreign-bom); (1910 census) 4539. Raton is served by the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6, the Saint Louis, Rocky Mountain & Pacific, and the Santa Fe, Raton & Eastern railways. The city lies immediately W. of the Raton Mountains, from which it derives its name, and has an elevation of 6400-6650 ft. above the sea. Among its institutions are a miners' hospital, maintained by the state, and a picturesque public park. The city lies within the Raton coal field, a southern continuation of the field of the same name in Colorado, and the richest coal-producing area in New Mexico. In 1907 70% of the total coal product of New Mexico came from Colfax county, in which this field is situated. Ores of gold, silver and lead have been mined in Colfax county. South and east of the city there is good farming land. Raton is a place of railway origin, and owes its development to its extensive railway shops, as well as to the proximity of mines. It was incorporated in 1891.
RATRAMNUS (d. c. 868), a theological controversialist of the second half of the 9th century, was a monk of the Benedictine abbey of Corbie near Amiens, but beyond this fact very little of his history has been preserved. He is best known by his treatise on the Eucharist (De corpore et sanguine Domini liber), in which he controverted the doctrine of transubstantiation as taught in a similar work by his contemporary Radbcrtus Paschasius. Ratramnus sought in a way to reconcile science and religion, whereas Radbcrtus emphasized the miraculous. Ratramnus’s views failed to find acceptance; their author was soon forgotten, and, when the book was condemned at the synod of Vercelli in 1050, it was described as having been written by Johannes Scotus Erigena at the command of Charlemagne. In the Reformation it again saw the light; it was published in 1532 and immediately translated. In the controversy about election, when appealed to by Charles the Bald, Ratramnus wrote two books De praedestinatione Dei, in which he maintained the doctrine of a twofold predestination; nor did the fate of Gottschalk deter him from supporting his view against Hincmar as to the orthodoxy of the expression “ trina Deltas. " Ratramnus perhaps won most glory in his own day by his Contra Graecorum opposita, in four books (868), a valued contribution to the controversy between the Eastern and Western Churches which had been raised by the publication of the encyclical letter of Photius in 867. An edition of De corpore et sanguine Domini was published at Oxford in 1859.
See the article by G. Steitz and Hauck in Hauck’s Realency· klopadie fur protest. Theologie, Band xvi. (Leipzig, 1905); Naegle, Ratramnus und die heilige Eucharistic (Vienna, 1903); Schnitzer, Berengar von Tours; and A. Harnack, History of Dogma, v., pp. 309-322 (1894-9).
RATTAZZI, URBANO (1808-1873), Italian statesman, was born on the 29th of June 1808 at Alessandria, and from 1838 practised at the bar. In 1S48 he was sent to the chamber of deputies in Turin as representative of his native town. By his debating powers he contributed to the defeat of the Balbo ministry, and for a short time held the portfolio of public instruction; afterwards, in the Gioberti cabinet, he became minister of the interior, and on the retirement of the last-named in 1849 he became practically the head of the government. The defeat at Novara compelled the resignation of Rattazzi in March 1849. His election as president of the chamber in 1852 was one of the earliest results of the so-called “ connubio ” with Cavour, i. e. the union of the moderate men of the Right and of the Left; and having become minister of justice in 1853 he carried a number of measures of reform, including that for the suppression of certain of the monastic orders. During a momentary reaction of public opinion he resigned office in 1858, but again entered the cabinet under La Marmora in 1859 as minister of the interior. In consequence of the negotiations for the cession of Nice and Savoy’he again retired in January i860. He was entrusted with the formation of a new ministry in March 1862, but in consequence of his policy of repression towards Garibaldi at Aspromonte he was driven from office in the following December. He was again prime minister in 1867, from April to October. He died at Frosinone on the 5th of June 1873. His wife, whom he married in 1863, was a remarkable woman. She was the daughter of Sir Thomas Wyse, British plenipotentiary at Athens, and Laetitia Bonaparte, niece of Napoleon I. Born in Ireland in 1833, she was educated in Paris, and in 1848 married a rich Alsatian named Solms; but the prince-president refused to recognize her, and in 1852 she was expelled from Paris. Her husband died soon after; and calling herself the Princessc Marie de Solms, she spent her time in various fashionable places and dabbled in literature, Eugene Sue and Francois Ponsard being prominent in her court of admirers. She published Les Chants de Vexilic (1859) and some novels. After Rattazzi’s death, she married (1877) a Spaniard named Rute; she died in February 1902.
See Madame Rattazzi, Rattazzi et son temps (Paris, 1881); Bolton King, History of Italian Unity (London, 1899).
RATTLESNAKE. Rattlesnakes are a small group of the sub-family of pit-vipers (Crotalinae, see Snakes; Vipcridae), characterised by a tail which terminates in a chain of horny, loosely connected rings, the so-called “ rattle. ” The “ pit ” by which the family is distinguished from the ordinary vipers is a deep depression in the integument of the sides of the snout, between the nostrils and the eye; its physiological function is unknown. The rattle is a complicated and highly specialized organ, developed from the simple conical scale or epidermal spine, which in the majority of snakes forms the termination of the general integument of the tail. The bone by which the root of the rattle is supported consists of the last caudal vertebrae, from three to eight in number, which are enlarged, dilated, compressed and coalesced (fig. 1,0). This bone is covered
with thick and vascular cutis, transversely divided by two constrictions into three portions, of which the proximal is larger than the median, and the median much larger than the distal. This cuticular portion constitutes the matrix of a horny epidermoid covering which closely fits the shape of the underlying soft part and is the beginning of the rattle, as it appears in young rattlesnakes before they have shed their skin for the first time. When the period of a renewal of the skin approaches a new covering of the extremity of the tail is formed below the old one, but the latter, instead of being cast off with the remainder of the epidermis, is retained by the posterior swelling of the end of the tail, forming now the first loose joint of the rattle. This process is repeated on succeeding moultings— the new joints being always larger than the old ones as long as the snake grows. Perfect rattles therefore taper towards the point, but generally the oldest (terminal) joints wear away in time and are lost. As rattlesnakes shed their skins more than once every year, the number of joints of the rattle does not indicate the age of the animal but the number of exuviations which it has undergone. The largest rattle in the British Museum has twenty-one joints. The rattle consists thus of a variable number of dry, hard, homy cup-shaped joints, each of which loosely grasps a portion of the preceding, and all of which are capable of being shaken against each other. If the interspaces between the joints are filled with water, as often happens in wet weather, no noise can be produced. The motor power lies in the lateral muscles of the tail, by which a vibratory motion is communicated to the rattle, the noise produced being similar to that of a child’s rattle and perceptible at a distance of from 10 to 20 yds.
The habit of agitating the tail is not peculiar to the rattlesnake, but has been observed in other venomous and innocuous snakes with the ordinary tail, under the influence of fear or anger. It is significant that the tip of such snakes is sometimes rather conspicuously coloured and covered with peculiarly modified
scales, notably in Acaulhophis. The use of such a tail probably consists in attracting or fixing the attention of small animals, by slightly raising and vibrating the' tip. The rattle no doubt acts as a warning, every snake preferring being left alone to being forced to bite. Many a man has been warned in time by the shrill sound, and this principle applies undoubtedly to other
mammals. Moreover, rattlesnakes are rather sluggish, and comparatively not vicious. First they try to slink away; when overtaken or cornered they use every means of frightening the foe by swelling up, puffing, rattling and threatening attitudes; it is as a rule not until they are touched, or provoked by a rapid movement, that they retaliate, but then they strike with fury. They are viviparous, and as destroyers of rats, mice and other small rodents they are useful. The surest way of clearing a ground of them and any other snakes is to drive in pigs, which are sure to find and to eat them, without harm to themselves. They inhabit localities to which the sun has free access, prairies, rough stony ground, &c. Specimens of 5 ft. in length are not rare. Formerly common in the eastern parts of the United States, and still so in thinly inhabited districts, rattlesnakes, like the vipers of Europe, have gradually succumbed to the persecution of man.
Rattlesnakes are confined to the New World. North-American authors distinguish a great number of different kinds, S. W. Garman (“ Reptiles and Batrachians of North America,” Harvard Mus. Zool. Mem., 1883, 4to) enumerating twelve species and thirteen additional varieties. E; D. Cope has split them into twenty; but all these species or varieties fall into two groups. One, Sistrurus, has the upper side of the head covered with the ordinary*nine shields; only three species, of comparatively small size, in North America
(Sistrurus miliarius from Florida to Sonora; S. catenatus in many of the middle states of the Union, and elsewhere, as far north as Michigan; S. ravus in Mexico). The second group forms the genus Crotalus, in which the shields between and behind the eyes are broken up and replaced by small scales. This genus ranges throughout the United States through Central and South America into Patagonia, but is not represented on any of the West Indian islands. C. horridus, with the tail uniformly black, from Maine to Kansas and Louisiana to Florida. C. adamanteuSy tail light, with black crossbands, body with a handsome pattern of rhombs with lighter centres and yellowish edges; chiefly south-eastern states, to Arizona and Mexico; the largest of rattlers, giants of 8 ft. in length having been recorded. C. con-fluentus, tail with brown or indistinct bands; with a continuous series of large brown or reddish rhomboidal spots on the back; Texas to California. C. cerastes, with a pair of horns above the eyes; the 11 sidewinder ” of Arizona and California to Nevada. C. terrificus, easily distinguished by the possession of three pairs of symmetrical shields on the top of the muzzle, ranging from Arizona into Argentina. It is the only kind of rattlesnake in Central and South America. C. triseriatus, a small species, with a feebly developed rattle, on Mexican mountains, on the pic of Orizaba up to 12,500 ft. (St G. M.: H. F. G.)
RAU, KARL HEINRICH (1792-1870), German political economist, was born at Erlangen on the 29th of November 1792. He studied from 1808 to 1812 at the university there, where he afterwards remained as a Privatdozent. In 1814 he obtained the prize offered by the academy of Göttingen for the best treatment of the question how the disadvantages arising from the abolition of trade gilds might be removed. His memoir, greatly enlarged, was published in 1816 under the title Über das Zunftwesen und die Folgen seiner Aufhebung. In the same year appeared his Primae lineae historiae politices. In 1818 he became professor at Erlangen. In 1822 he was called to the chair of political economy at Heidelberg where the rest of his life was spent, in the main, ip teaching and research. He took some part, however, in public affairs: in 1837 he was nominated a member of the first chamber of the duchy of Baden, and in 1851 he was one of the commissioners sent to England on the part of the Zollverein to study the Industrial Exhibition. A result of this mission was his account of the agricultural implements exhibited at London (Die landwirthsckaftlichen Geräthe der Londoner Ausstellung, 1853). He was elected a corresponding member of the French Institute in 1856. He died at Heidelberg on the 18th of March 1870.
His principal work is the Lehrbuch der politischen Ökonomie (1826-37), an encyclopaedia of the economic knowledge of his time, written with a special view to the guidance of practical men. The three volumes are respectively occupied with (1) political economy, properly so called, or the theory of wealth, (2) administrative science (Volkswirthschaftspolitik) and (3) finance. The tw’o last he recognizes as admitting of variations in accordance with the special circumstances of different countries, whilst the first is more akin to the exact sciences, and is in many respects capable of being treated, or at least illustrated, mathematically. This threefold division marks his close relation to the older German cameralistic writers, with whose works he was familiarly acquainted. It is a consequence in part of his conformity to their method and his attention to* administrative applications that his treatise was found peculiarly adapted for the use of the official class, and long maintained its position as their special text-book. He was the economic teacher, says Roscher, of the well-governed middle states of Germany from 1815 to 1848. The book has passed through many editions; in that of 1870 by Adolf Wagner it was transformed into a new book.
In the earlier part of his scientific life Rau tended strongly towards the relative point of view and an historical method in economics, but he never actually joined the historical school. To the end he occupied a somewhat indeterminate position with respect to that school; on the whole, however, he more and more subordinated historical investigation to immediate practical interests, and in his economic politics moved in the direction of limiting rather than extending the sphere of state action. His genera] merits are thoroughness of treatment, accuracy of statement, and balance of judgment; he shows much industry in the
collection and skill in the utilization of statistical facts; and his exposition is orderly and clear.
Besides the publications already mentioned, lie was author of the following:—Ansichten der Volkswirthschaft, 1821; Mai thus und Say fiber die Ursachen der ietzigen Handelsstockung, 1821: Grnndriss der Kameralwissenschaft oaer Wirthschafislehre, 1823; Ober die Kameralwissenschaft, Entxoickelung Hires Wesens und Hirer Theile, 1825; Ober die Landwirihschaft der Rhein pfalz, 1830; and Geschichie des Pflttges, 1845.
Rau founded in 1834 the Archiv der poliiischen ukonomie und Polizeiivissenschaft, in which he wrote a number of articles, afterwards issued in separate form: amongst them may be named those on the debt of Baden, on the accession of Baden to the Zollverein, on the crisis of the Zollverein in the summer of 1852, on the Ameriain banks, on the English poor law, on List's national system of political economy and on the minimum size of a peasant property.
RAUCH, CHRISTIAN DANIEL (1777 -1857), German sculptor, was born at Arolsen in the principality of Waldeck on the 2nd of January 1777. His parents were poor and unable to place him under efficient masters. His first instructor taught him little else than the art of sculpturing gravestones, and Professor Ruhl of Cassel could not give him much more. A wider field of improvement opened up before him when he removed to Berlin in 1797; but he was obliged to earn a livelihood by becoming a royal lackey, and to practise his art in spare hours. Queen Louisa, surprising him one day in the act of modelling her features in wax, sent him to study at the Academy of Art. Not long afterwards, in 1804, Count Sandrccky gave him the means to complete his education at Rome, where William von Humboldt, Canova and Thorwaldscn befriended him. Among other works, he executed bas-reliefs of “ Hippo-lytus and Phaedra,” “ Mars and Venus wounded by Diomede,” and a “ Child praying.” In 1811 Rauch was commissioned to execute a monument for Queen Louisa of Prussia. The statue, representing the queen in a sleeping posture, was placed in a mausoleum in the grounds of Charlottenburg, and procured great fame for the artist. The erection of nearly all public statues came to be entrusted to him. There were, among others, Biilow and Scharnhorst at Berlin, Bluchcr at Breslau, Maximilian at Munich, Francke at Halle, Durer at Nuremberg, Luther at Wittenberg, and the grand-duke Paul Frederick at Schwerin. At length, in 1830, he began, along with Schinkcl the architect, the models for a colossal equestrian monument at Berlin to Frederick the Great. This work was inaugurated with great pomp in May 1851, and is regarded as one of the masterpieces of modern sculpture. Princes decorated Rauch with honours and the academies of Europe enrolled him among their members. A statue of Kant for Konigsberg and a statue of Thaer for Berlin occupied his attention during some of his last years; and he had just finished a model of “ Moses praying between Aaron and Hur ” when he was attacked by his last illness. He died on the 3rd of December 1857.
RAUCOURT, MLLE (1756-1815), French actress, whose real name was Fran90i.se Marie Antoinette Saucerotte, was born in Nancy 011 the 3rd of March 1756, the daughter of an actor, who took her to Spain, where she played in tragedy at the age of twelve. By 1770 she was back in France at Rouen, and her success as Euphcmie in Belloy’s Gaston el Bayard caused her to be called to the Com£die Francaise, where in 1772 she made her dibitl as Dido. She played all the classical tragedy parts to crowded houses, until the scandals of her private life and her extravagance ended her popularity. In 1776 she suddenly disappeared. Part of the ensuing three years she was in prison for debt, but some of the time she spent in the capitals of northern Europe, followed everywhere by scandal. Under protection of the queen she reappeared at the Th&ttre Franfais in 1779, and renewed her success in PhUre, as Cleopatra, and all her former r6ks. At the outbreak of the Revolution she was imprisoned for six months with other royalist members of the Com£die Francaise, and she did not reappear upon that stage until the close of 1793, and then only for a short time. She deserted, with a dozen of the best actors in the company, to found a rival colony, but a summons from the Directory brought her back in 1797. Napoleon gave her a pension, and in 1806 she was commissioned to organize and direct a company that was to tour Italy, where, especially in Milan, she was enthusiastically received. She returned to Paris a few months before her death on the 15th of January 1815. Her funeral was the occasion of a riot. The clergy of her parish having refused to receive the body, the crowd broke in the church doors, and were only restrained from further violence by the arrival of an almoner sent post-haste by Louis XVIII. She is buried at Pere Lachaise.
RAUDNITZ (Czech Roudnice nad Labem), a town of Bohemia, Austria, 44 m. N. of Prague by rail. e Pop. (1900) 7986, mostly Czech. It is situated on the Elbe, and its chief attraction lies in the interesting and valuable collections in its chateau, which has belonged to the princely family of Lobkowitz since the beginning of the 17th century. These include a library with a large number of the earliest specimens of printing and valuable MSS., together with a scries of pictures from the time of Charles V. to the Thirty Years’ War. In 1350 Cola di Ricnzi, “ the last of the tribunes,” was confined by the emperor Charles IV. in the castle, which occupied the site of the present chateau, previous to his despatch under arrest to the pope at Avignon. In 1184 Raudnitz is mentioned as belonging to the see of Prague. The title of duke of Raudnitz was conferred on the head of the family of Lobkowitz by the emperor Joseph II. in 1786.
RAUMER, FRIEDRICH LUDWIG GEORG VON (1781-1873), German historian, was born at Worlitz in Anhalt on the 14th of May 1781. His father (d. 1822), as Kammerdirektor in Anhalt, did excellent service to agriculture. After studying at the Joachimsthal Gymnasium, Berlin, and at the universities of Halle and Gottingen, Raumer began to practise law, and rose in the civil service under Hardenberg, the chancellor. He was made a professor at the university of Breslau in 1811, and in 1819 he became professor of political science and history at Berlin, holding the chair until 1847, and giving occasional lectures until 1853. In 1815 he had carried on historical investigations in Venice, and in the two following years he had travelled in Germany, Switzerland and Italy. In 1848 he was elected a member of the German parliament at Frankfort, where he associated himself with the right centre, supporting the proposal for a German empire under the supremacy of Prussia; and he was one of the deputation which offered the imperial crown to Frederick William IV. After the breakdown of the German parliament, Raumer returned to Berlin, where he was made a member of the first chamber of the Prussian parliament. He died at Berlin on the 14th of June 1S73. Raumcr’s style is direct, lucid and vigorous, and in his day he was a popular historian, but judged by strictly scientific standards he does not rank among the first men of his time.
His first work, published anonymously in 1806, was entitled Seeks Dialoge fiber Krieg und Handel. This was followed by Das brilische Besteuerungssystem (1810), Ilandbuch merkwiirdiger Stellen aus den lateinischen Geschichtschreibern des Mittelalters (1813), Ilerbstreise nach Venedig (1816) and other books. His most famous works are Geschichie der Ilohenstausen und ihrer Zeit (1823-25; 5th ed., 1876) and Geschichie Euro pas sett dem Ende des 15 ten Jahr-hunderts (1832-50). In 1831 appeared Briefe aus Paris und Frank-reich im Jahre 1830 and Briefe aus Paris zur Erlauterung der Geschichie des i6ten und 17ten Jahrhunderts. He went to England in 1 835, to Italy in 1839 and to America in 1843, and these visits led to the publication of various works—England in 1835 (1836), Beitrage zur neuern Geschichie aus dem Britischen Museum und Reiths-archive (1836-39), Italien, Beitrage zur Kenntniss dieses Landes (1840), Die Vereinigten Staaten von Nordamerika (1845). Among his later books may be mentioned Antiquarische Briefe (1851), Historisch-politische Briefe fiber die geselligen Verhaltnisse der Men-schen (i860), Lebenserinnerungen und Briefwechsel (1861) and Hand-buck zur Geschichie der Literatur (1864-66). In 1830 Raumer began the Historisches Taschenbuch published by Brockhaus, which from 1871 was continued by Rich].
RAUPACH, ERNST BENJAMIN SALOMO (1784 -1852), German dramatist, was bom on the 21st of May 17S4 at Straupitz, near Liegnitz in Silesia, a son of the village pastor. He attended the gymnasium at Liegnitz, and studied theology at the university of Halle. In 1804 he obtained a tutorship
in St Petersburg. He preached at times in the German Lutheran church, wrote his first tragedies, and in 1817 was appointed professor of German literature and history at a training college in connexion with the university. Owing to an outburst of jealousy against Germans in Russia, culminating in police supervision, Raupach left St Petersburg in 1822 and undertook a journey to Italy. The literary fruits of his travels were Hirsemenzels Briefe aus und über Italien (1823). He next visited Weimar, but, being coldly received by Goethe, abandoned his idea of living there and settled in 1824 in Berlin. Here he spent the remainder of his life, writing for the stage, which for twenty years he greatly influenced, if not wholly controlled, in the Prussian capital. He died at Berlin on the 18th of March 1852.
Raupach was a prolific writer of both tragedies and comedies; of the former, Die Fürsten Chawansky (1818), Der Liebe Zauberkreis (1824), Die Leibeigenen, oder Isidor tend Olga (1826), Rafaele (1828), Der Nibelungenhort (1834) and Die Schule des Lebens (1841), and of the latter Die Schleichhändler (1828) and Der Zeitgeist (1830) are pieces which have enjoyed great popularity owing to their skilful dramatic handling. On the other hand, the historical dramas with which his name is chiefly associated, Die Hohenstaufen (1837-38), a cyclusof 15 dramatic pieces founded on Friedrich von Raumer’s Geschichte der Hohenstaufen, as also the trilogy Cromwell (1841-44), are superficial in treatment. Raupach had a great knowledge of theatrical effect and situations, but he contorts historical facts in order to suit his political hobby, which was the separation of church and state.
Riupach’s collected dramas appeared under the title Dramatische Werke ernster Gattung (16 vols.,* 1830-43) and Dramatische Werke komischer Gattung (4 vols., 1829-35). For his life see Pauline Raupach, Raupach, eine biographische Skizze (1853); also K. Goedekc, Grundriss zur Geschichte der deutschen Dichtung, 2nd ed. (1905), vol. viii., pp. 646^-668.
RAVAILLAC, FRANÇOIS (1578-1610), the assassin of Henry IV. of France, was born near Angoulême. He was of humble origin and began life as a valet de chambre, but afterwards became a lawyer and also teacher of a school. After having been imprisoned by his creditors, he sought admission to the recently founded order of Feuillants, but after a short probation was dismissed as a visionary. An application for admission to the Society of Jesus was equally unsuccessful in 1606. His disappointments fostered a fanatical temperament, and rumours that the king was intending to make war upon the pope suggested to him the idea of assassination, which he carried out on the 14th of May 1610. In the course of his trial he was frequently put to the torture, but persistently (and it is now believed truly) denied that he had been prompted by any one or had any accomplices. Sentence of death was carried out on the 27th of May following.
See Jules Loiseleur, Ravaillac et ses complices (1873), and E. La visse, Histoire de France, tome vi. (Paris, 1905).
RAVAISSON-MOLLIEN, JEAN GASPARD FÉLIX (1813-
1900), French philosopher and archaeologist, was born at Namur on the 23rd of October 1813. After a successful course of study at the Collège Rollin, he proceeded to Munich, wr here he attended the lectures of Schelling, and took his degree in philosophy in 1836. In the following year he published the first volume of his famous work Essai sur la métaphysique d’Aristote, to which in 1846 he added a supplementary volume. This work not only criticizes and comments on the theories of Aristotle and the Peripatetics, but also deduces from them a modem philosophical system. In 1838 he received the degree of doctor, and became professor of philosophy at Rennes. From 1840 he was inspector-general of public libraries, and in i860 became inspector-general in the department of higher education. He was also a member of the Academy, and of the Academy of Moral and Political Science, and curator of the Department of Antiquities at the Louvre (from 1870). He died in Paris on the 18th of May 1900. In philosophy, he was one of the school of Cousin, with whom, however, he was at issue in many important
points. The act of consciousness, according to him, is the basis of all knowledge. These acts of consciousness are manifestations of will, which is the motive and creative power of the intellectual life. The idea of God is a cumulative intuition given by all the various faculties of the mind, in its observation of harmony in nature and in man. This theory had considerable influence on speculative philosophy in France during the later years of the 19th century.
Ravaisson’s chief philosophical works are: “Les Fragments philosophiques de Hamilton ,r (in the Revue des Deux Mondes, November, 1840); Rapport sur le stoïcisme (1851); La Philosophie en France au dix-neuvieme siècle (1868; 3rd ed., 1889); Morale et métaphysique (1893). Eminent as a philosopher, Ravaisson was also an archaeologist, and contributed articles on ancient sculpture to the Revue Archéologique and the Mémoires de VAcadémie des Inscriptions. In 1871 he published a monograph on the Venus of Milo.
See Renouvier, in L'Année philosophique (Paris, 1868); Dawriae, “ Ravaisson philosophe ct critique " (La Critique philosophique, 1885, vol. ii.).
RAVANASTRON, an Indian stringed instrument played with a bow, used by wandering pilgrims. A Hindu tradition affirms that the musical bow was invented before 3000 b.c. by Ravanon, king of Ceylon, and that the instrument for which he invented it wf as named after him Ravanastron.@@1 Judging from precedent, it is probable that the ravanastron of the present day has changed little, if at all, for many centuries. It consists of half a round gourd, over vvdiich is fixed a sound-board of skin or parchment; to this primitive body without incurvation is attached a neck about twice the length of the body. The strings are either one or four in number, the pegs being set in the sides of the neck. The bridge is primitive and either straight or slightly arched, so that in bowing more than one string sounds at once.
The ravanastron is regarded by some writers as the first ancestor of the violin, on account of the alleged invention of the bow for use with it. This theory can only be accepted by those who consider the bow, which after all was common to such inferior instruments as the rebec, as of paramount importance, and the structural features of the instrument itself, the box sound-chest with ribs, which have always belonged to the most artistic types of instruments, such as the cithara and the guitar-fiddle, as of secondary importance.
(K. S.)
RAVELLO, a village of Campania, Italy, in the province of Salerno, about 3 m. N.N.E. of Amalfi by road, 1227 ft. above sea-level. It commands a magnificent view. Pop. (1901) 1851. The history of Ravello cannot be traced beyond the oth century. In the nth it was called Rebellum, because it refused to acknowledge the sovereignty of Amalfi, and in the 13th, when at the height of its prosperity, it had 36,000 inhabitants. The Palazzo Rufolo, begun in the nth century, has two lofty towers and beautiful Saracenic decoration in the courtyard. The ex-cathedral of S. Pantaleo, almost entirely modernized, has fine bronze doors by Barisanus of Trani (1179), and two pulpits in Cosmatesque work. The larger, supported by six columns resting on the backs of lions, was made in 1272 by Nicolaus of Foggia; the bust over the entrance to it is said to be a portrait of Sigilgaita Rufolo. The smaller, of the same date, is simpler, and has curious representations of Jonah and the whale. The parish church of S. Giovanni in Toro, spoilt by restorations in the 18th century, contains a splendid pulpit in Cosmatesque w’ork, supported on four pillars, and the crypt some 14th-century frescoes. In front of it is the porch of the Palazzo dell’ Afflitto, composed of ancient fragments. S. Maria Immacolata is another Romanesque church.
See A. Avena, Monumenti dell' Arte Méridionale (Naples, 1902), i. 349 sqq.
RAVEN (O.E. hrœfn, Icel. hrafn, Dan. ram, Du. raaf, Ger. Rate), the largest of the birds of the order Passeres, and a member of the family Corvidae, probably the most highly developed of all birds. Quick-sighted, sagacious and bold, the raven preys on the spoils of fishers and hunters, as also on weakly
@@@1 An illustration appears in Sonnerat’s Voyages aux Indes orientales (Paris, 1806), vol. i. p. 182.
animals among flocks and herds. A sentiment of veneration or superstition has from remote ages and among many races attached to it. The raven is associated with various characters of history, sacred or profane—Noah and Elijah, Odin and Flokki, the last of whom by its means discovered Iceland. It is said to have played its part in the mythology of the Red Indian; and it has often figured in prose and verse, from the time of Shakespeare to that of Poe and Dickens. Superstition has been generally succeeded by persecution, which in many districts has produced extirpation.
The raven breeds very early in the year, in England resorting to its nest, which is usually an ancient if not an ancestral structure, about the middle or towards the end of January. Therein are laid from five to seven eggs of the common Corvine coloration (see Crow), and the young are hatched before the end of February. In more northern countries the breeding season is naturally delayed, but everywhere this species is almost, if not quite, the earliest breeder. The raven measures about 26 in. in length, and has an expanse of wing considerably exceeding a yard. Its bill and feet are black, and the same may be said of its whole plumage, but the feathers of the upper parts as well as of the breast are glossy, reflecting a bright purple or steel-blue. The species (Corpus corax) inhabits the whole of Europe, and the northern if not the central parts of Asia; but in the latter continent its southern range is not well determined. In America it is, or used to be, found from the shores of the Polar Sea to Guatemala if not to Honduras, but is said hardly to be found of late years in the eastern part of the United States. In Africa its place is taken by three allied but well-differentiated species, two of which (1Corvus umbrinus, readily distinguished by its brown neck, and C. affmis, having its superior nasal bristles upturned vertically) also occur in south-western Asia, while the third (C. leplouyx or C. tingitanus, a smaller species characterized by several slight differences) inhabits Barbary and the Atlantic Islands. Farther to the southward in the Ethiopian region three more species appear whose plumage is varied with white—C. scapulatus, C. albicoUis, and C. crassirostris—the first two of small size, but the last rivalling the real raven in that respect.    (A. N.)
RAVEN-HILL, LEONARD (1867-    ), English artist and
illustrator, was born on the 10th of March 1867. He was educated at Bristol grammar school and the Devon county school, and studied art at Lambeth and then in Paris under MM. Bougereau and Aime Morot. He began to exhibit at the Salon in 1887, and in the Royal Academy in 1889. In 1893 he founded, with Arnold Golsworthy, the humorous and artistic monthly The Butterfly (1893-94, revived in 1899-1900). He contributed to many illustrated magazines, and began to work for Punch, with which he was afterwards prominently associated, in 1896. He illustrated Sir Walter Besant’s East London (1901) and J. H. Harris's Cornish Saints and Sinners', he published the impressions of his visit to India on the occasion of the tour of the prince and princess of Wales as An Indian Sketch-Book (1903); and his other published sketch-books include Our Battalion (1902) and The Promenadcrs (1894).
RAVENNA, a city and archiepiscopal see of Emilia, Italy, capital of the province of Ravenna, standing in a marshy plain 13 ft. above sea-level, 6 m. from the sea and 45 m. by rail east of Bologna. Pop. (1906) 35,543 (town), 67,379 (commune)—a considerable increase, as the population of 1881 was only 34,270 (commune). The industries are few, the growing of wine, breeding of silkworms, making of agricultural instruments, printing and the manufacture of laces being the chief. The town is connected with the sea by the Corsini Canal, the two small rivers Ronco and Montone no longer serving as means of communication. Ravenna has railway communication with Bologna (via Castel Bolognese), Ferrara and Rimini, and by steam tram with Forli. At the mouth of the canal is a small harbour.
No other city in the wOrld offers so many and such striking examples of the ecclesiastical architecture of the centuries from the 5th to the 8th. The style is commonly called Byzantine;
but some of the most striking features of the churches of Ravenna—the colonnades, the mosaics, perhaps the cupolas— are not so much Byzantine as representative of early Christian art generally. The following are the most important churches of Ravenna, arranged in the order of the dates generally attributed to them:—
Almost the only sacred building previous to the 5th century of which we have any record is unfortunately lost. The cathedral of Ravenna, built by S. Ursus in 370-390, which had a nave and four aisles, w*as destroyed in 1734-44, only the (inaccessible) crypt and the round campanile remaining from the earlier structure; there are fragments of reliefs from a pulpit erected by Archbishop Agnellus (556-569) in the interior. A rare work on the earlier church (Buonamici, La Metropolitana di Ravenna) gives details of its construction. The present cathedral contains several early Christian marble sarcophagi, a silver cross of the 6th century (that of Agnellus), and the so-called throne of the Arcbbishop Maximian (546-552), adorned with reliefs in ivory, which, however, was really brought to Ravenna in 1001 by John the Deacon, who recorded the fact in his Venetian chronicle, as a present from the Doge Fietro Orseolo to the Emperor Otho III.
The period from the transference of the imperial residence to Ravenna to the death of Valentinian III. (404-455) w*as the first period of great building activity in Ravenna, when the archiepiscopal see of Ravenna attained great importance. It w*as to it that we owe the erection of the Basilica Petriana at Classe (396-425), which has entirely disappeared, of the churches of S. Giovanni Evangelista (425), of S. Agata (425-432),’ of the chapel of S. Pier Crisologo (433-449), of the tomb of Galla Placidia (440), the church of S. Pier Maggiore (now* S. Francesco) (433*458), the baptistery of Neon (449-458), S. Giovanni Battista and S. Croce.
Rivoira, in the book cited below*, show's that many of the characteristic architectural details can be traced back to a classical and in particular a Roman origin, and were not derived from the East, e.g. the use of blind arches as an external decoration, and of brick cornices with the points of the bricks projecting like the teeth of a saw*, the use of pulvini (cushions) above the capitals of columns and under the spring of an arch, &c. &c., the use of round arches springing direct from these cushions, spherical pendentives, &c.
Of this group of churches, S. Giovanni Evangelista, erected by Galla Placidia in fulfilment of a vow made on her voyage from Constantinople, has been entirely rebuilt, though the columns are ancient (the Corinthian capitals are probably from a classical building), and the crypt may be original. The Gothic portal is fine, and the church contains a mosaic pavement of 1213 with curious representations and some frescoes by Giotto, painted during a visit to Dante between 1317 and 1320. S. Agata was almost entirely rebuilt in 1476-94. The
chapel of S. Pier Crisologo in the archiépiscopal palace preserves its original mosaics, and so also does the tomb of Galla Placidia (SS. Nazario e Celso), a small structure in the form of a Latin cross with a dome (in which, as in the baptistery of Neon, the old cathedral, &c., the constructional use of amphorae is noteworthy), with a plain brick exterior, and rich mosaics on a dark blue ground within. The sarcophagus of Galla Placidia has, like the two others that stand here, been despoiled of its contents. The altar, like that at S. Vitale, is made of thin slabs of alabaster, behind which lamps were intended to be placed.
S. Francesco, as it has been called since 1261, when it came into the possession of the Franciscans, has been almost entirely modernized, except for the crypt and campanile (nth century). The baptistery adjacent to the cathedral was, according to Ricci, originally part of the Roman baths, converted to a Christian baptistery by the Archbishop Neon (449-452), though-according to other authorities it is a Christian building dating from before a.d. 396. It is an octagon, with a dome; in the interior are two arcades one above the other. The mosaics of the 5th century, in the dome, are the earliest and perhaps the finest at Ravenna for their splendid decorative effect and rich colouring, and are less stiff and conventional than the later mosaics.
Of S. Giovanni Battista, also erected in this period, hardly anything remains after the restoration of 1683, and S. Croce has been overtaken by a similar fate.
After the death of Valentinian III. the activity in building for which Ravenna had been so remarkable suffered a check; but the reign of Theodoric (493-526) marks another era of magnificence. In the eastern part of the city he built for himself a large palace, which probably occupied about a sixth of the space now enclosed within the city walls, or nearly the whole of the rectangle enclosed by Strada di Porta Alberoni on the south, Strada Nuova di Porta Serrata on the west and the line of the city walls on the north and cast. There still remains close to the first-named street and fronting the Corso Garibaldi a high wall built of square Roman bricks, with pillars and arched recesses in the upper portion, which goes by the name of Palazzo di Teodorico. Freeman, on account of the Romanesque character of the architecture, thought it probable that it really belongs to the time of the Lombard kings, and his opinion is shared by Ricci and Rivoira, who consider it to be a guardhouse erected by the exarchs, recent explorations having made it clear that it was an addition to the palace, while mosaic pavements and an atrium once surrounded by arcades really belonging to the latter were found in 1870 behind S. Apollinare Nuovo and in 1908 behind the so-called Palazzo at a lower level and a different orientation. A mosaic in the church of S. Apollinare Nuovo gives some faint idea of the palace. A more memorable and clearly authentic monument of Theodoric is furnished by his tomb, a massive mausoleum which stands still perfect outside the walls near the north-east corner of the city. It is circular internally and decagonal externally, in two storeys, built of marble blocks, and surmounted by an enormous monolith, brought from the quarries of Istria and weighing more than 300 tons. The plan is no doubt derived from that of a Roman tomb. In this mausoleum Theodoric was buried, but his body was cast forth from it, perhaps during the troublous times of the siege of Ravenna by the imperial troops, and the Rotunda (as it is now generally called) was converted into a church dedicated to the Virgin.
S. Apollinare Nuovo, the most important basilica in the town, was built by Theodoric to be the largest of Arian churches, and originally called S. Martino in Coelo Aureo (a name which it lost in the 9th century). The exterior is uninteresting, and the church lost both atrium and apse in the 16th century. The interior has twenty-four columns of marble (from Constantinople according to some, from Rome according to others), with almost uniform capitals. The walls of the nave are adorned with mosaics of the 6th century; the scenes from the New Testament above the windows date from the time of Theodoric, while the somewfliat stiff processions below, of virgins on one side and of saints on the other, are substitutions of the latter half of the 6th century for representations which probably contained some allusion to Arianism or episodes in the life of Theodoric (so Ricci). The mosaics have been in parts much restored; but the earlier ones still show, like those which preceded them in Ravenna, classical forms, variety of treatment and freedom of colouring, while the processions are monotonous and inferior in execution, intended rather to produce a decorative effect than beauty of form. The pulpit appears to be of Byzantine origin (Rivoira). The campanile (850-878) is circular, and has perhaps the earliest example of the use of disks of coloured majolica as a decoration. This, like the other campanili of Ravenna, is later than the church to which it belongs. Those of the cathedral of S. Apollinare in Classe, S. Maria Maggiore and S. Agata, also circular, probably belong also to the 9th century, while the twT o square campanili of S. Giovanni Evangelista and S. Francesco probably belong to the early nth century. The other churches erected by Theodoric are: S. Teodoro (or S. Spirito), erected by Theodoric for the Arian bishops, but entirely modified: the baptistery of this church (afterwards the oratory of S. Maria in Cosmedin) formed out of the octagonal hall of a Roman bath (?) —unless it is an originally Christian building—with mosaics of the 6th century imitating those of the baptistery of Neon, and freely restored; S. Maria Maggiore, founded by the Archbishop Ecclesius (521-534), but almost entirely rebuilt; and S. Vittore, which has suffered a similar fate. To the same period probably belong a few columns of the so-called Basilica of Heracles in the Piazza Vittorio Emanuele, with capitals like those of S. Apolli-nare in Classe.
The impulse given by Theodoric wT as continued by his successors, and during the regency of Amalasuntha and the reigns of Theodatus and Vitiges (526-539), S. Vitale and S. Apollinare in Classe were constructed by Julius Argentarius contemporaneously w-ith S. Lorenzo in Milan and the cathedral of Parenzo—also S. Michele in Africisco, nothing of the original structure of which now exists. The former, well restored by Ricci in 189&-1900 (except for the dome with its baroque frescoes which has not been altered), is a regular octagon, with a vestibule, originally flanked by twr o towers on the west, a choir added on the east, triangular outside and circular within; it is surrounded within by twr o galleries interrupted at the presbytery, and supported by eight large pillars, the intervals betw-een which are occupied by open exedrae. The mosaics of the choir (547) are due to Justinian, and, though inferior in style, are remarkable for their splendour of colouring and the gorgeous dresses of the persons represented, and also for their historical interest, especially the scenes representing the emperor and the empress Theodora presenting offerings. The marble screens of the altar are wonderfully finely carved. The marble mosaic pavement (nth century) is very effective. Remains of the original marble wall lining and stucco decoration also exist. The capitals are, in the lower order, the characteristic funnel-shaped rectangular Byzantine capitals, some of them with open w-ork, bearing cushions; this is a type probably derived from the cushion itself, and developed in the East about the second half of the 5th century*
The architecture of S. Vitale (for plan see Architecture, sect. Early Christian), according to Rivoira, wT as inspired not by Byzantium, where similar churches—S. Sofia and SS. Sergio and Bacco—are slightly later in date, but by the churches of Salonica (a.d. 495), while the plan is derived from a Christian baptistery, or from such a building as the so-called temple of Minerva Medica at Rome.
S. Apollinare in Classe, erected at the same time outside the walls of Classis, and now standing by itself in the lonely marshes, is the largest basilica existing at Ravenna. It has a nave and aisles with a closed vestibule on the west, and a fine round campanile of the 9th (?) century. The exterior brick walls are divided by shallow arches and pilasters, as in other churches of Ravenna. It has twenty-four columns of Carystian (cipollino) marble, with capitals probably of Byzantine work with swelling
acanthus leaves; but the rest of the church is due to native architects. The lofty presbytery and the crypt under it belong to the 12th century. The walls of the interior were stripped of their marble panelling by Sigismondo Malatesta in 1449, for the adornment of his church at Rimini. The apse has mosaics of the 6th and 7th centuries. The 18th-century series of portraits of the archbishops of Ravenna is no doubt copied from an earlier original. There arc a number of fine carved sarcophagi in the church (5th to 8th century). The building activity of the Gothic kings was continued by Justinian, to whose time we owe the completion of S. Vitale and S. Apollinare in Classe, and some of the mosaics in S. Appollinare Nuovo.
The buildings of a subsequent period are of minor importance, but the basilica of S. Maria in Porto near the ancient harbour (1096 sqq.), a basilica with open roof, with frescoes by. masters of the Rimini school, may be noticed. The massive concrete substructures of the campanile are attributed to an old lighthouse. The tomb of Dante, who died at Ravenna in 1321, is close to S. Francesco; it is a square-domed structure, with a relief by Pietro Lombardo (14S2) representing the poet, and a sarcophagus below, in an urn within which lie the poet’s remains. Close by is a small court with early Christian sarcophagi, containing the remains of the Braccioforte family. The secularized monastery of Classe, in the town, built by the monks of S. Apollinare in Classe in 155 sqq. as a refuge from the malaria, which prevailed at Classe itself, with fine 17th-century cloisters, contains the important museum, which has Roman and Byzantine antiquities, inscriptions, sculptures, jewelry, &c.— including the possible remains of a suit of gold armour of Theodoric—and a collection of Italian woodcuts; also the library with rare MSS. and incunabula (among the former the best extant MS. of Aristophanes). The Accademia, close by, has a few pictures by local masters, c.g. N. Rondinelli (end of 15th century), of no great importance, and a fine recumbent statue of GuidarelJo Guidarelli, a condottiero of Ravenna, and a partisan of Caesar Borgia (d. 1501), by Tullio Lombardo (?) or Severo da Ravenna (?).
In the Piazza Vittorio Emanuele are two granite columns erected by the Venetians, in 1483, with statues of SS. Apollinaris and Vitalis. The cloisters of S. Maria di Porto erected in the town in the 16th century (owing to malaria, as in the case of those of Classe), and of S. Vitale, are pleasing 16th-century structures. The 15th-century castle in the north-east corner of the town erected by the Venetians is a picturesque brick building. The famous plneio or pinewood of Ravenna, which already existed in Odoacer’s time, and has been sung by poets since Dante, lies some 5 m. south of Ravenna.
History.—Strabo mentions a tradition that Ravenna was founded by Thessalians, who afterwards, finding themselves pressed by the Etrurians, called in their Umbrian neighbours and eventually departed, leaving the city to their allies. Pliny, on the other hand, calls it Sabine. Throughout the valley of the Po the Gauls took the place of the Etrurians as a conquering power; but Ravenna may possibly have retained its Umbrian character until, about the year 191 b.c., by the conquest of the Boii, the wholeof this region passed definitely under the dominion of Rome. Either as a colonia or a municipium, Ravenna remained for more than two centuries an inconsiderable city of Gallia Cisalpina, chiefly noticeable as the place in which Caesar during his ten years’ command in Gaul frequently resorted in order to confer with his friends from Rome, and from which he started for his advance into Italy. At length under Augustus it suddenly rose into importance, when that pmperor selected it as the station for his fleet on “ the upper sea.” Two hundred and fifty ships, said Dion (in a lost passage quoted by Jordanes), could ride at anchor in its harbour. At the same time Augustus conducted a branch of the Po (the fossa Augusta) through the city into the sea. It also became important for the export of timber from the Alps. Strabo, writing probably a few years after Ravenna bad been thus selected as a naval arsenal, gives us a description of its appearance which certainly corresponds more closely with modern Venice than with modern
Ravenna. “ It is the largest of all the cities built in the lagoons, but entirely composed of wooden houses, penetrated in all directions by canals, wherefore bridges and boats are needed for the wayfarer. At the flow of the tide a large part of the sea comes sweeping into it; and thus, while all the muddy deposit of the rivers is swept away, the malaria is at the same time removed, and by this means the city enjoys so good a sanitary reputation that· the government has fixed on it as a place for the reception and training of gladiators.” On the other hand, good water was proverbially difficult to obtain at Ravenna— dearer than wine, says Martial, who has two epigrams on the subject. Trajan, however, built an aqueduct nearly 20 miles long, which was restored by Theodoric in 503. Of this some traces still exist in the bed of the Ronco above Ravenna. Flics and frogs were also complained of, and Sidonius, writing in the 5th century, complains bitterly of the “ feculent gruel ” (cloac-alis puls) which filled the canals of the city, and gave forth fetid odours when stirred by the poles of the bargemen. The port of Ravenna, situated about 3 miles from the city, was named Classis. A long line of houses called Caesarea connected it with Ravenna, and in process of time there was such a continuous series of buildings that the three towns seemed like one. It was a municipium under the Empire, as the inscriptions show, but it seems to have had magistrates rather suited to a vicus or village, its importance being due entirely to the naval station (cf. the state of things at Mediolanum, Milan). It had large gilds oijabri (smiths and carpenters) and centonarii (firemen).
Of Roman Ravenna nothing remains above ground, though a little has been found by excavation, including a mosaic pavement at Classe. near S. Severo (Ricci, op. cit. p. 50). Among the tombs many of the poorer under the Empire were simply formed of amphorae, in which the body was placed. A prehistoric station was found in 1894 at S. Zaccaria near Ravenna, belonging to a Terramare (E. Brizio in Notizie degli Scavi, 1896, 85). In a.d. 339 it is spoken of as having previously been the chief town of Picenum, but having recently been assigned to Aemilia. It was connected with Ariminum, 33 miles to the south by the coast road, the Via Popillia, which ran on north to Hatria, and joined the road between Patavium and Altinum at Ad Portum.
The great historical importance of Ravenna begins early in the 5th century, when Honorius, alarmed by the progress of Alaric in the north of Italy, transferred his court hither. From this date (404) to the fall of the Western Empire in 476 Ravenna was the chief residence of the Roman emperors. Here Stilicho was slain; here Honorius and bis sister Placidia caressed and quarrelled; here Valentinian III. spent the greater part of his life; here Majorian was proclaimed; here the little Romulus donned his purple robe; here in the pinewood@@1 outside the city his uncle Paulus received his decisive defeat from Odoacer. Through all these changes Ravenna maintained its character as an impregnable “ city in the sea,” not easily to be attacked even by a naval power on account of the shallowness and devious nature of the channels by which it had to be approached. Odoacer, like the emperors who had gone before him, made Ravenna his chief place of residence, and here he shut himself up when Theodoric the Ostrogoth had invaded Italy and defeated him in two battles. Theodoric’s siege of Ravenna lasted for three years (489-492), and was marked by one bloody encounter in the pinewood on the east of it. The Ostrogoth collected a fleet and established a severe blockade, which at length caused Odoacer to surrender the city. The terms, arranged through the intervention of John, archbishop of Ravenna, were not observed by
@@@1 The great pinewood to the east of the city, which is still one of the great glories of Ravenna, must therefore have been in existence already in the 5th century. Byron’s description,
“ [The] immemorial wood Rooted where once the Adrian wave flowed o’er,” is probably true; but there is no evidence that it was in historic time that this change took place. It may be conjectured that the Pineta grew on a large peninsula somewhat resembling the Lido of Venice.
Theodoric, who, ten days after his entry into the city, slew his rival at a banquet in the palace of the Laurel Grove (March 15, 493). Ravenna was Theodoric’s chief place of residence, and his reign (493-526) may be considered the time of its greatest splendour.
Nine years after the death of Theodoric Justinian sent an army to destroy the Gothic monarchy and restore Italy to the empire. Long after the Goths had lost Rome they still clung to Ravenna, till at length, weary of the feebleness of their own king, Vitiges, and struck with admiration of their heroic conqueror, they offered to transfer their allegiance to Belisarius on condition of his assuming the diadem of the Western Empire. Belisarius dallied with the proposal until he had obtained an entrance within the walls of the capital, and proclaimed his inviolable fidelity to Justinian. Thus in the year 539 was Ravenna re-united to the Roman empire. Its connexion with that empire—or, in other words, its dependence upon Constantinople—lasted for more than 200 years, during which period, under the rule of Narses and his successors the exarchs, Ravenna was the seat of Byzantine dominion in Italy. In 728 the Lombard king Luitprand took and destroyed the suburb Classis; about 752 the city itself fell into the hands of his successor Aistulf, from whom a few years after it was wrested by Pippin, king of the Franks. By this time the alteration of the coast-line and the filling up of the lagoons had probably commenced, and no historical importance attaches to its subsequent fortunes. It formed part of the Frankish king’s donation to the pope in the middle of the 8th century, though the archbishops, as a fact, retained almost independent power. It was an independent republic, generally taking the Guelph side in the 13th century, subject to rulers of the house of Polentani in the 14th, Venetian in the 15th (1441), and papal again in the 16th,—Pope Julius II. having succeeded in wresting it from the hands of the Venetians. St Romuald and St Peter Damian were both natives of Ravenna. From this time (1509) down to our own days, except for the interruptions caused by the wars of the French Revolution, Ravenna continued subject to the papal see and was governed by a cardinal legate. In 1849 Garibaldi’s wife Anita, who had accompanied him on his retreat from Rome, succumbed to fatigue in the marshes near Ravenna. In 1859 it was one of the first cities to give its vote in favour of Italian unity, and it has since then formed a part of the kingdom of Italy.
Charles the Great carried off the brazen statue of Theodoric and the marble columns of his palace to his own palace at Aix-la-Chapelle. More than five centuries later (1320) Dante became the guest of Guido Novello di Polenta, lord of Ravenna, and here he died on the 14th September of the following year. The marble urn containing the body of the poet still rests at Ravenna, where what Byron calls “ a little cupola more neat than solemn” has been erected over it. In 1512 (seebelow) the French army under Gaston de Foix fought a fierce battle with the Spanish, Venetian, and papal troops on the banks of the Ronco about two miles from Ravenna. The French were victorious, but Gaston fell in the act of pursuing the enemy. His death is commemorated by the Colonna dei Francesi erected on the spot where he fell. Lord Byron resided at Ravenna for eighteen months in 1820-21, attracted by the charms of the Countess Guiccioli.
Authorities.—The most important authority for the history of Ravenna is Bishop Agnellus, who wrote, about 840, the Liber Pontificalis Ecclesiae Ravennatis. The best edition is that by Holder-Egger in the Monumenta Germaniae Historica (1878). See also E. Bormann, in Corpus Inscript. Latin. xi. (Berlin, 1888), p. 1 sqq.; G. T. Rivoira, Origini deW Architettura Lombarda, I. (Rome, 1901); C. Ricci, Ravenna (Bergamo, 1902). To the careful restorations of the last named the buildings of Ravenna owe much. (T. H.; T. As.)
Battle of 1512.—This battle, one of the principal events of the long Italian wars of Charles VIII., Louis XII., and Francis I. of France, is, like Marignano, interesting in a tactical sense, from the fact that the feudalism of the past and the expert soldiership of the future were strangely mingled. It arose out of the attempt of the Spanish and Italian forces to relieve
Ravenna, besieged by Gaston de Foix, duke of Nemours. The most celebrated captains of these wars were present on either side—under Gaston de Foix were Bayard, Yves d’Allegre, La Palisse; and under Cardona the Spanish viceroy of Naples, Pedro Navarro the great engineer, and Pescara the originator of the Spanish tactical system. After some preliminary manoeuvres the two armies drew up face to face on the left bank of the Roneo, the Spanish left and the French right resting on this river. The Spaniards were entrenched, with their heavy artillery distributed along the front, but, thanks to Navarro, they had a more mobile artillery in the shape of 200 arquebuses & croc mounted in groups upon carts, after the German fashion, and this was held ready to move wherever its services might be needed. The left wing was composed of the papal contingent, 6000 infantry and 800 gendarmes under Fabrizio Colonna; the centre, of half the Spanish contingent, 4000 infantry and 600 lancers under the viceroy; the right, of 1000 light horse under Pescara. Behind the centre was the rest of the Spanish contingent, 600 lancers and 4000 infantry. On the other side the right wing was commanded by the duke of Ferrara, who had like Navarro organized a mobile field artillery (the artillery material of this prince was thought to be the best conditioned in Europe). It consisted besides of 800 French gendarmes under Louis de Breze and 5000 German landsknechts under Jakob Empser. In the centre vrere 8000 French infantry (the ancestors of the later Picardie and Piedmont regiments) under the seigneur de Molart, and 5000 Italian infantry. On the left were the light horse. A reserve of 600 gendarmes under La Palisse was behind the centre. The battle opened with a prolonged cannonade from the Spanish lines. For three hours the professional regiments of all sorts in the French lines rivalled one another in enduring the fire unmoved, the forerunners of the military systems of to-day, landsknechts, Picardie and Piedmont, showing the feudal gendarmerie that they too were men of honour. There was no lying down. The captains placed themselves in the front, and in the centre 38 out of 40 of them were struck down. ¡Molart and Empser, drinking each other’s health in the midst of the cannonade, were killed by the same shot. Sheltered behind the entrenchments, the Spaniards scarcely suffered, for they were lithe active troops accustomed to lie down and spring up from the ground. But after three hours, Pescara’s light horse having meantime been driven in by the superior light horse of the enemy, the artillery-loving duke of Ferrara conceived the brilliant plan of taking his mobile field-guns to the extreme right of the enemy. This he did, and so came in sight of the prone masses of the Spaniards. Disciplined troops as they were, they resisted the temptation to escape Ferrara’s fire by breaking out to the front; but the whole Spanish line was enfiladed, and on the left of it the papal troops, who were by no means of the same quality, filled up the ditch in front of their breastworks and charged forward, followed by all the gendarmerie. Once in the plain they were charged by the French gendarmes under Gaston himself, as well as by the landsknechts, and driven back. The advantage of position being thus lost, the Spanish infantry rose and flung itself on the attackers; the landsknechts and the French bands were disordered by the fury of the counterstroke, being unaccustomed to deal with the swift, leaping, and crouching attack of swordsmen with bucklers. But La Palisse’s reserve wheeled in upon the rear of the Spaniards, and they retreated to the entrenchments as fast as they had advanced. The papal infantry, the gendarmes, and the light horse had already vanished from the field in disorder; but the Spanish regulars were of different mettle, and it was only after a long struggle that the landsknechts and the French bands broke into the entrenchments. A captain of landsknechts, Fabian by name, holding his long pike crosswise, brought it down with all his force upon the opposing spears, and at the cost of his life made a narrow gap through which the French broke into the mass of the enemy. Still the conflict continued, but at last La Palisse, with all the gendarmerie still in hand, rode completely round the entrenchments and charged the Spaniards’ rear again. This was the
end, but the remnant of the Spanish infantry retreated in order along the river causeway, keeping the pursuers at bay with their arquebuses. Gaston de I'oix, recklessly charging into the midst of them, was killed.    (C. F. A.)
RAVENNA, EXARCHATE OF, the official name of that part of Italy which remained in the allegiance of the Roman emperors at Constantinople from the closing years of the 6th to the middle of the Sth century. The civil and military head of these possessions, the exarch (?.t0, was stationed at Ravenna. The territory round the town, from the southern border of the modern Venctia to the beginning of the Pentapolis at Rimini, was under his direct administration and formed in a limited sense the exarchate. The other provinces were governed by dukes and magistri militum} titles which were generally, but not always, borne by the same person. But as all were subject to his authority, they were included in the exarchate of Ravenna, which was therefore another name for the province of Italy. The borders of these dominions varied according to the fortunes of the imperial authority in its long struggle with the Lombards. Sicily formed a separate government. Corsica and Sardinia belonged to the exarchate of Africa. The reorganization of the province of Italy into the exarchate was forced on the emperors by the Lombard invasion, which began in 568, and their permanent settlement. The Lombards thrust a wedge into Italy. Its base was in Venetia, and its point was advanced to the Tiber. From the early days of the conquest they spread to the south, and established the duchies of Spoletum and Bcneventum in the modern kingdom of Naples. They may thus be said to have hollowed out the imperial, or Byzantine, possessions in Italy, the interior being under their power, and the coast remaining to the imperial officers. This illustration, however, is subject to two serious exceptions. As the Lombards spread they came into possession of many parts of the coast. Then a belt of imperial territory stretching from Rimini on the Adriatic, S.W. to the mouth of the Tiber, and including the duchies of Perugia and Rome, served to unite the immediate territory of Ravenna with the duchy of Naples, and to separate the two bodies under Lombard dominion, the kingdom in the north, and the southern duchies Spoletum and Beneventum. The organization of the exarchate is placed by modern investigators under the reign of the emperor Maurice (582-602), when the imperial government began to recognize the necessity of providing for a new and a long struggle. At the end of the 6th century the exarchate included Istria; the maritime part of Venetia as distinct from the interior which was in the hands of the Lombard kings at Pavia; the exarchate proper, or territory around Ravenna on the eastern side of the Apennines, to which was added Calabria, which at that period meant the heel and not the toe of the boot; the Pentapolis, or coast from Rimini to Ancona with the interior as far as the mountains; the duchy of Rome, or belt of territory connecting the Pentapolis with the western coast, the coast of Naples, w; th Bruttium the toe of the boot, the modern Calabria, and Liguria, or the Riviera of Genoa. The Piedmont, Lombardy, mainland of Venetia, Tuscany and the interior of Naples belonged to the Lombards. The advance of these barbarians was for a time checked during the anarchy which followed the death of Alboin, and was subject to other suspensions. The superior organization of the imperial government enabled it to regain lost territory and delay complete ruin. In 590 the empire regained much of Venetia. But these revivals were not permanent. The superiority of the empire was a mechanical one, and during the two centuries or so that the exarchate lasted it lost ground. In 640 the Ligurian sea coast fell under the power of the Lombards, and ceased to be an imperial province. About a century later the exarchate had been greatly reduced, though the imperial officials endeavoured to conceal the fact by retaining and transferring names when the reality of possession was lost. About 740 it consisted of Istria, Venctia (the maritime portion of which was ceasing to be a province and was becoming a protected state, the forerunner of the future republic of Venice), Ferrara, Ravenna (the exarchate in the limited sense), Pentapolis, Pcrusia, Rome, the coast of Naples and Calabria (in the sense of the toe and not the heel of the boot) which was being overrun by the Lombards of the duchy of Beneventum, which with Spoletum held the interior. In Rome the pope was the real master. These fragments of the “ province of Italy,” as it was when reconquered by Justinian, were almost all lost either to the Lombards, who finally conquered Ravenna itself about 750, or by the revolt of the pope, who separated from the empire on account of the iconoclastic reforms. The intervention of Pippin the Carolingian, who was called in by the popes to protect them against the Lombards and the Eastern emperors alike, made a revival of the exarchate impossible. It disappeared, and the small remnants of the imperial possessions on the mainland, Naples and Calabria, passed under the authority of the “ patri-cius ” of Sicily, and when Sicily was conquered by the Arabs in the 10th century were erected into the themes of Calabria and Langobardia. Istria was attached to Dalmatia.
In its internal history the exarchate was subject to the influences which were everywhere, in central and western Europe at least, leading to the subdivision of sovereignty and ‘the establishment of feudalism. Step by step, and in spite of the efforts of the emperors at Constantinople, the great imperial officials became landowners, the owners of land —kinsmen or at least associates of these officials—intruded on the imperial administration, while the necessity for providing for the defence of the imperial territories against the Lombards led to the formation of local militias, who at first were attached to the imperial regiments, but gradually became independent. These armed men formed the exercilus romatiae militiae, who were the forerunners of the free armed burghers of the Italian cities of the middle ages. The exercitus of Rome was divided into scholae, and had a chief or patronus, and its banner. Other cities of the exarchate were organized on the same model. Diehl is of opinion that the exercitus was formed of the ancient “ possessors,” or landowners and free townsmen, who were of a less rank than the or do senatorius. The great landowners who were developing into feudal lords, and the smaller freemen who were becoming independent burghers, broke the imperial administration to pieces, and prepared the way for the final ruin of the exarchate.
See Etudes sur Vadministration Byzantine dans sexarckat de Ravenne (568-751), by Charles Diehl (Paris, 18S8).
RAVENSBURG, a town of Germany, in the kingdom of Wurttemberg, pleasantly situated amid vine-clad hills on the river Schussen, 12 m. N. of Fried rich shafen on the lake of Constance, by the railway of Ulm. Pop. (1905) 14,614, the great majority of whom are Roman Catholics. Its aspect is medieval; it still retains its walls and nine picturesque towers, the most prominent of which, dating from the 15th century, is known as the “ Mehlsack,” or sack of flour. The town hall is a handsome 15th-century building. The manufactures include linen, cotton, embroidered muslins, pottery, glass and playing-cards. The fruit market is important, and there is trade in cattle, grain and timber. Ravensburg was founded in the nth century by the Guelphs, and in their ancestral castle on the Veitsburg, which was partially restored in 1892, the Saxon duke, Henry the Lion, was born. In 1180 the town passed to the Hohenstaufens, and a century later it became a free town of the Empire. In the 15th century it was a flourishing commercial place, its chief industry being the manufacture of paper. Annexed to Bavaria from 1803 to 1810, it was ceded to Wiirttemberg in the latter year.
See Hafner, Geschichte von Ravensburg (Ravensburg, 1887).
RAVENSCROFT, EDWARD (fl. 1671-1697), EngUsh dramatist, belonged to an ancient Flintshire family. He was entered at the [Middle Temple, but devoted his attention mainly to literature. Among his pieces are Mamamouchi, or The Citizen turned Gentleman (Dorset Garden, 1671, pr. 1675); The Careless Lovers (Dorset Garden, 1673, pr. 1673); a comedy
of intrigue; Scaramouch a Philosopher, Harlequin a Schoolboy, Bravo a Merchant and Magician (Theatre Royal, 1677); English Lawyer (Theatre Royal, 1678), an adaptation of George Ruggle's Latin play of Ignoramus, presented before James I. at Cambridge in March 1615; The London Cuckold (Dorset Garden, 1683), which became a stock p: ece, but was struck out of the repertory by Garrick in 1751; and The Italian Husband (Lincoln's Inn Fields, 1697). He wrote in all twelve plays, in which he adapted freely from Molière and others, confessing on one occasion that he “ but winnowed Shakespeare's corn.” He ventured to decry the heroic drama, and Dryden retaliated by satirizing his Mamamouchi, a foolish adaptation from Molière’s Bourgeois Gentilhomme and Monsieur de Pourceaugnact in the prologue to the Assignation (Dryden, Works, ed. Scott, iv. 345 seq.).
RAVI, a river of India, one of the “ Five Rivers ” of the Punjab. It rises in the Kulu subdivision of Kangra district, flows through Chamba state, and enters British territory again in Gurdaspur district. At Madhupur the head works of the Bari Doab canal draw off a large portion of its waters. Thence it flows through the plains of the Punjab, passing within a mile of Lahore, and finally falls into the Chenab after a course of about 450 m.    »
RAVINE, a deep, narrow gorge, cleft or valley in a mountain, worn by the violent rush of water, whence the name, which comes through Fr. from Lat. rapina> violent robbery or plunder (jrapere, to seize). The doublet “ ravin ” or “ raven,” robbery, greed, has given place to the more learned form “ rapine,” but is still seen in “ ravenous,” greedy, voracious.
RAWALPINDI, a town of British India, which gives its name to a district and a division in the Punjab. The town is situated on the north bank of the little river Leh, 1726 ft. above the sea, mm. E. by S. of Peshawar, and 1443 m. N.W. of Calcutta. Pop. (1901) 87,688. It is chiefly notable as the largest military station, in India, and the key to the British system of defence upon the North-West Frontier. Railways radiate to Peshawar, Kohat, and the Malakand Pass, and a road runs to the Abbotabad frontier. It is also tbe starting-point of the cart-road to the hill-station of Murree and of the route into Kashmir. It is protected by a strong chain of forts, connected by the Circular Road. It is the headquarters of tbe second division of the northern army with a strong force of all arms, and contains an arsenal. Besides the locomotive works of the North-Western railway, there are gas-wT orks, a tent factory, an iron foundry, and a brewery. An annual horse fair is held in April.
The District of Rawalpindi has an area of 2010 sq. m., Attock having been separated from it and formed into a separate district in 1904. It is situated on the southern slopes of the north-western extremities of the Himalayas, including large mountain tracts with rich valleys traversed by mountain torrents. It contains the Murree hills with the sanatorium of that name, the chief hill-station in the Punjab. The Indus and the Jhelum are the chief rivers, and the climate is noted for its healthiness. The principal crops are wheat, barley, maize, millets, and pulses. The district is traversed by the main line of the North-Western raihvay, crossing the Indus at Attock, and also by a branch towards the Indus at Kushalgarh. The population in 1901 was 558,699, showing an increase of 4*7 % in the decade.
The Division of Rawalpindi lies in the north-west of the Punjab. It consists of the five districts of Gujrat, Attock, Shahpur, Jhelum, and Rawalpindi. The total area is 15,736 sq. m. and the population in 1901 wT as 2,799,360.
RAWENDIS, a Persian sect that took its name from a town Râwend near Isfahan. Its origin is unknown, but they held ultra-Shiite doctrines (see Shiites). Under the year 158 (a.d. 775) Tabari says that a man of the Râwendis, called al-Ablaq (because he was leprous), asserted that the spirit that was in Jesus was in ‘Ali, then in the imams one after the other to Ibrahim ibn Mahommed, and that thus these wT ere gods. Asad ibn ‘Abdallah, then governor of Khorasan, put many of them to
death. Under the year 135 (a.d. 752-3) the historian again mentions a rising of the Rawendis of Talaqan, and its suppression. Under 141 (a.d. 758-9) he gives a fuller account of them. They believed in metempsychosis, or the transmigration of souls, and asserted that the spirit of Adam was in Othman ibn Nahik, that the Lord who fed them and gave them drink was Abu Ja'far ul-Man§ur, and that al-Haitham ibn Moawiya was Gabriel. Accordingly they came to the palace of Man$ur in Hashimlya and began to hail him as Lord. Mansur, however, secured their chiefs and threw them into prison. By means of a mock funeral they succeeded in reaching the prison and delivering their leaders. They then turned in math against Man§ur and almost succeeded in capturing him, but were defeated and slain by al-Haitham.    (G. W. T.)
RAWITSCH (Polish Ravicz), a town of Germany, in the Prussian province of Posen, lying near the Silesian frontier, 37 m. N. of Breslau, at the junction of railways to Posen and Liegnitz. Pop. (1905) 11,403. It contains a handsome Protestant church and a medieval town hall. The principal industry is the manufacture of snuff and cigars, and for the former it enjoys a considerable reputation. Trade is carried on in grain, wool, cattle, hides, and timber. Rawitsch was founded by Protestant refugees from Silesia during the Thirty Years' War. It passed to Prussia at the second partition of Poland in 1793.
RAWLINSON, GEORGE (1812-1902), English scholar and historian, was born at Chadlington, Oxfordshire, on the 23rd November 1812, being the younger brother of Sir Henry Rawlinson (g.i>.). Having taken his degree at Oxford (from Trinity College) in 1838, be was elected to a fellowship at Exeter College in 1840, of which from 1842 to 1846 he was fellow and tutor. He was ordained in 1841; wT as Bampton lecturer in 1S59, and Camden professor of ancient history from 1861 to 1889. In 1872 he was appointed canon of Canterbury, and after 1888 he was rector of All fallows, Lombard Street. In 1873 he was appointed proctor in Convocation for the Chapter of Canterbury. He married Louisa, daughter of Sir R. A. Chermside, in 1846. His chief publications are his translation of the History of Herodotus (in collaboration with Sir Henry Rawlinson and Sir Gardner Wilkinson), 1858-60; The Five Great Monarchies of the Ancient Eastern Worlds 1862-67; The Sixth Great Oriental Monarchy (Parthian), 1873; The Seventh Great Oriental Monarchy (Sassanian), 1875; Manual of Ancient History, 1869; Historical Illustrations of the Old Testament, 1871; The Origin of Nations, 1877; History of Ancient Egypt, 1881; Egypt and Babylon, 1885; History of Phoenicia, 1889; Parlhia, 1893; Memoir of Major-General Sir H. C. Rawlinson, 1898. He was a contributor to the Speaker's Commentary, the Pulpit Commentary, Smith's Dictionary of the Bible} and various similar publications; and he w'as the author of the article “ Herodotus ” in the 9th edition of the Ency. Brit. He died on the 7th of October 1902.
RAWLINSON, SIR HENRY CRESWICKE (1810-1895), English soldier and orientalist, was born at Chadlington, Oxfordshire, on the nth of April 1810. In 1827 he went to India as cadet under the East India Company; and after six years' life with his regiment as subaltern, during which time he had become proficient in the Persian language, he was sent to Persia in company with some other English officers to drill and reorganize the Shah's troops. It was at this time that he was first attracted to the study of inscriptions, more particularly those in the hitherto undeciphered cuneiform character. In the course of the two years during which he was in its immediate neighbourhood he transcribed as much as he was able of the great cuneiform inscription at Behistun (5.0.); but the friction between the Persian court and the British government ended in the departure of the British officers.
He was appointed political agent at Kandahar in 1840. In that capacity he served for three years, bis political labours being as meritorious as was his gallantry during various engagements in the course of the Afghan War; for these he was rewarded by the distinction of C.B. in 1844. A fortunate chance, by which
he became personally known to the governor-general, led to his being appointed, at his own desire, as political agent in Turkish Arabia; thus he was enabled to settle in Bagdad, where he devoted much time to the cuneiform studies which attracted him. He was now able, under considerable difficulties and with no small personal risk, to make a complete transcript of the Behistun inscription, which he was also successful in deciphering and interpreting. Having collected a large amount of invaluable information on this and kindred topics, in addition to much geographical knowledge gained in the prosecution of various explorations (including visits with Layard to the ruins of Nineveh), he returned to England on leave of absence in 1849. He remained at home for two years, published in 1851 his memoir on the Behistun inscription, and was promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel. He disposed of his valuable collection of Babylonian, Sabaean, and Sassanian antiquities to the trustees of the British Museum, who also made him a considerable grant to enable him to carry on the Assyrian and Babylonian excavations initiated by Layard. In 1851 he returned to Bagdad. The excavations were carried on under his direction with valuable results, among the most important being the discovery of material that greatly contributed to the final decipherment and interpretation of the cuneiform character. An accident with which he met in 1855 hastened his determination to return to England, and in that year he resigned his post in the East India Company. On his return to England the distinction of K.C.B. was conferred upon him, and he was appointed a crown director of the East India Company. The remaining forty years of his life were full of activity—political, diplomatic, and scientific—and were mainly spent in London. In 1858 he was appointed a member of the first India Council, but resigned in 1859 on being sent to Persia as envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary. The latter post he held only for a year, owing to his dissatisfaction with circumstances connected with his official position there. Previously he had sat in Parliament as M.P. for Reigate from February to September 1858; he sat again as M.P. for Frome, 1865-68. He was appointed to the Council of India again in 1868, and continued to serve upon it until his death. He was a strong advocate of the forward policy in Afghanistan, and counselled the retention of Kandahar. His views were more particularly expressed in England and Russia in the Eastt 1875. He was a trustee of the British Museum from 1876 till his death. He was created G.C.B. in 1889, and a Baronet in 1891; was president of the Geographical Society from 1874 to 1875, and of the Asiatic Society from 1878 to 1881; and received honorary degrees at Oxford, Cambridge, and Edinburgh. He married, in September 1862, Louisa Caroline Harcourt Seymour, who bore him two sons and died in 1889. He died in London on the 5th of March 1S95. His published works include (apart from minor contributions to the publications of learned societies) four volumes of cuneiform inscriptions, published under his direction between 1870 and 1884 by the trustees of the British Museum; The Persian Cuneiform Inscription at Behistun y  1846-51, and Outline of the History of Assyria, 1S52, both reprinted from the Asiatic Society's journals; A Commentary on the Cuneiform Inscriptions of Babylon and Assyria, 1850; Notes on the Early History of Babylonia, 1854; England and Russia in the Easty 1875. He contributed to the Encyclopaedia Britannica (9th edition) the articles on Bagdad, the Euphrates and Kurdistan, and several other articles dealing with the East; and assisted in editing a translation of Herodotus by his brother, Canon George Rawlinson.
See G. Rawlinson, Memoir of Henry Cresuncke Rawlinson (1898).
RAWLINSON, RICHARD (1690-1755), English antiquary and divine, was a younger son of Sir Thomas Rawlinson (1647-1708), lord mayor of London in 1705-6, and a brother of Thomas Rawlinson (1681-1725), the bibliophile. Bom on the 3rd of January 1690, he was educated at St Paul’s school, at Eton, and at St John’s College, Oxford. In 1716 he was ordained, but as he was a nonjuror and a Jacobite the ceremony was performed by a nonjuring bishop, Jeremy Collier. Rawlinson then travelled in England and on the continent of Europe, where he passed several years, making collections of manuscripts, coins and curiosities. In 1728 he became a bishop among the nonjurors, but he hardly ever appears to have discharged episcopal functions, preferring to pass his time in collecting books and manuscripts, pictures and curiosities. He died at Islington on the 6th of April 1755. Rawlinson left his manuscripts, his curiosities, and some other property to the Bodleian Library; he endowed a professorship of Anglo-Saxon at Oxford, and was a benefactor to St John’s College. -
RAWLINSON, SIR ROBERT (1810-1898), English engineer and sanitarian, was bom at Bristol on the 28th of February 1810. His father was a mason and builder at Chorley, Lancashire, and he himself began his engineering education by working in a stonemason’s yard. In 1831 he obtained employment under Jesse Hartley in the engineer’s office at the Liverpool docks, and for four years from 1836 he was engaged under Robert Stephenson as assistant resident engineer for the Blis-worth section of what is now the London & North-Western main line from London to the North. Returning to Liverpool, he spent some years as assistant-surveyor to the corporation, and then in 1844 accepted an engineering post on the Bridgewater Canal. Three years later he returned to Liverpool, to superintend the design and construction of the famous brick-arched ceiling in the St George’s Hall, in succession to his friend H. L. Elmes. During this period Rawlinson’s reputation as a sanitarian had been growing, and when the Public Health Act was passed in 1848 he was appointed one of the first inspectors under it. He inspected many of the chief towns of England, and his reports on the sanitary conditions he found brought him in many cases into great unpopularity with the municipal rulers. Early in 1855 popular feeling was so aroused by the waste of life that was going on among the British troops in the Crimea through disease, and by the mismanagement of the campaign, that the Aberdeen ministry was forced to resign. Lord Palmerston, who then became prime minister, sent a sanitary commission, consisting of Rawlinson and two medical members (Dr John Sutherland and Dr H. Gavin), with full powers from the War Office, to do whatever it thought would lead to better hygienic conditions in camp and hospital. The commission reached Constantinople in March, and, by insisting on what now seem the most obvious precautions, succeeded within a few weeks in reducing the death-rate in the Levantine hospitals from 42 to 2|%. Passing on to the Crimea, it effected a similar improvement there, and by the end of the year the health of the whole British army in the field was even better than it enjoyed at home. Rawlinson’s next great public service, for which he was made C.B. in 1865, was in connexion with the distress caused in Lancashire by'the collapse of the cottonmanufacturing industry consequent on the American Civil War. In 1863 it was suggested that, in order to provide employment for the starving operatives, the government should start works of “ utility, profit and ornament,” and Rawlinson being sent to make an official investigation into the question, reported, after visiting nearly 100 towns, that i£ million sterling might be advantageously expended in providing water-supply and drainage, forming streets, &c., in those places. The result was that the Treasury was authorized to advance £1,200,000 the amount was afterwards increased) at 3!% for carrying out such works, which proved of enormous public benefit. In 1866 he acted as chairman of the Royal Commission on the Pollution of Rivers, and a few years later was appointed chief engineering inspector to the Local Government Board; on retiring from this position in 1888 he was promoted to be K.C.B. In 1894 he served as president of the Institution of Civil Engineers. He died in London on the 31st of May 1898.
RAWMARSH, an urban district in the Rotherham parliamentary division of the West Riding of Yorkshire, England, 7i m. N.E. of Sheffield by the Midlafid railway. Pop. (1891) 11,983; (1901) 14,587· It is situated on the ridge of a hill above the valley of the Don. The church of St Lawrence was rebuilt
in 1839 with the exception of the Norman tower. Rawmarsh has large iron-works, steel rolling-mills and potteries, and there are collieries in the neighbourhood. At the time of the Conquest the manor was granted to Walter d’Eyncourt, and in the 12th century it was divided among the three daughters of his tenant Ralph Paganel, who is supposed to have been the founder of the church.
RAWTENSTALL, a municipal borough in the Rossendale parliamentary division of Lancashire, England, 17J m. N. by W. from Manchester by the Lancashire & Yorkshire railway. Pop. (1901) 31,053. This town is a modern creation of the cotton industry; at the beginning of the 19th century it was a secluded village in the wild hilly district of Rossendale Forest. The cotton and woollen industries employ the majority of the inhabitants, and there are stone quarries in the neighbourhood. The town was incorporated in 1891, and the corporation consists of a mayor, 6 aldermen and 18 councillors. Area, 9535 acres.
RAY (Lat. raid). The rays (Batoidei) together with the sharks (Selachoidei) form the suborder Plagiostomi of Elasmo-branch fishes, and are divided into six families (see Ichthyology).
The first family, Pristidae, contains only the saw-fishes (Pristis), of which five species are known, from tropical and subtropical seas. They frequent especially estuaries and river-mouths, and in some cases make their way over a hundred miles from the sea. Although saw-fishes possess all the essential characteristics of the rays proper, they retain the elongate form of the body of sharks, the tail being excessively muscular and the sole organ of locomotion. The “ saw ” (fig. 1) is a flat prolongation of the snout, with an endoskeleton which consists of three to five cartilaginous tubes; these are the rostral processes of the cranial cartilage and are found in all rays, though commonly much shorter. The integument of the saw is hard, covered with shagreen; and a series of strong teeth, sharp in front and flat behind, are embedded in it, in alveolar sockets, on each side. The saw is a formidable weapon of offence, by means of which the fish tears pieces of flesh off the body of its victim, or rips open its abdomen to feed on the intestines. The teeth proper, with which the mouth is armed, are extremely small and obtuse, and unsuitable for wounding or seizing animals. Saw-fishes are abundant in the tropics; in their stomachs pieces of intestines and fragments of cuttle-fish have been found. They grow to a large size,
specimens with saws 6 ft. long and 1 ft. broad at the base being common.
The rays of the second family, Rhinobatidae, bear a strong resemblance to the saw-fishes, but lack the saw. Their teeth are consequently more developed, flat, obtuse, and adapted for crushing hard-shelled marine animals. There are about twenty known species, from tropical and subtropical seas.
The third family, Torpedinidae, includes the electric rays. For the peculiar organ (fig. 2) by which the electricity is produced, see Ichthyology. The fish uses this power voluntarily either to defend itself or to stun or kill the smaller animals on
which it feeds. To receive the shock, the object must complete the galvanic circuit by communicating with the fish at two distinct points, either directly or through the medium of some conducting body. The electric currents created in these fishes exercise all the other known powers of electricity: they render the needle magnetic, decompose chemical compounds and emit the spark. The dorsal surface of the electric organ is positive, the ventral negative. Shocks from a large healthy fish will temporarily paralyse the arms of a strong man. The species of the genus Torpedo are distributed,over the coasts of the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Ocean, and at least one reaches the coasts of Great Britain (T. hebetans). On the west coast of North America T. californica occurs, while on the Atlantic coast there is found the black crampfish (T. occidentaiis). This latter is said to reach a weight of 200 lb, but such gigantic specimens are scarce, and prefer sandy ground at some distance from the shore, where they are not disturbed by the agitation of the surface-water. Seven genera with about fifteen species have been described, mostly from the warmer seas. All the rays of this family have, like electric fishes generally, a smooth and naked body.
The fourth family, Raiidae, comprises the skates and rays proper, or Raia. More than thirty species arc known, chiefly from the temperate seas of both hemispheres, but much more numerously from the northern than the southern. A few species descend to a depth of nearly 600 fathoms, without, however, essentially differing from their surface congeners. Rays, as is
indicated by their shape, are bottom-fishes, living on flat sandy ground, generally at no great distance from the coast or the surface. They lead a sedentary life, progressing, like the flatfishes, by an undulatory motion of the greatly extended pectoral fins, the thin slender tail having lost the function of an organ of locomotion, and acting merely as a rudder. They arc carnivorous and feed exclusively on molluscs, crustaceans and fishes. Some of the species possess a much larger and more pointed snout than the others, and are popularly distinguished as “ skates.” The following are known as inhabitants of the British seas:—(a) short-snouted species: (i) the thornback (R. clavata)y (2) the homelyn or spotted ray (R. maculata), (3) the starry ray (i?. radiata), (4) the cuckoo or sandy ray (R. cireularis); (6) long-snouted species: (5) the common skate (i?. batis), (6) the flapperskate or jumhoskate(R.niacrorhynckus),
(7) the burton skate (R. alba), (8) and (9) the shagreen skates (R. axyrhynchus and R. fullonica). A few deep-sea species are known, including R. abyssicola from 1588 fathoms off the coast of British Columbia. Most of the skates and rays are eaten, except during the breeding season; and even the young of the former arc esteemed as food. The skates attain to a much larger size than the rays, viz. to a width of 6 ft. and a weight of 400 and 500 lb.
The members of the fifth family, Trygonidae or sting-rays, are distinguished from the rays proper by having the vertical fins replaced by a strong spine attached to the upper side of the tail. Some fifty species are known, which inhabit tropical more than temperate seas, some species being found in great tropical rivers over 1000 m. from the sea. The spine is barbed on the sides and is a most effective weapon of defence; by lashing the tail in every direction the sting-rays can inflict dangerous or at least extremely painful wounds. The danger arises from the lacerated nature of the wound rather than from any specially poisonous property of the mucus inoculated. Generally only one or two spines are developed. Sting-rays attain to about the same size as the skates and are eaten on the coasts of the Mediterranean and elsewhere. One species (Trygon pastinaca) is not rarely found in the North Atlantic and extends northwards to the coasts of Ireland, England and Norway.
The rays of the sixth and last family, Myliobatidae, are popularly known under various names, such as “ devil-fishes,” “ sea-devils ” and “ eagle-rays.” In them the dilatation of the body, or rather the development of the pectoral fins, is carried to an extreme, whilst the tail is very thin and sometimes long like a whip-cord (fig. 3). Caudal spines are generally present and similar to those of the sting-rays. In the enormous “ sea-devils,” sometimes classed as a separate family (Mobulidae), the anterior part of the pectoral fin is detached and forms a “ cephalic ” lobe or pair of lobes in front of the snout. The dentition consists of perfectly flat molars, adapted for crushing hard substances. In some of the eagle-rays the molars arc large and tessellated (fig. 4),
in others extremely small. Of the twenty-seven species which are known, from tropical and temperate seas, the majority attain a very large and some an enormous size: one mentioned by Risso, which was taken at Messina, weighed 1250 lb. A foetus taken from the uterus of the mother (all eagle.-rays are viviparous), captured at Jamaica and preserved in the British Museum, is 5 ft. broad and weighed 20 lb. The mother measured 15 ft. in width and as many in length, and was between 3 and 4 ft. thick. At Jamaica, where these rays are well known under the name of “ devil-fishes, ” they are frequently attacked for sport’s sake, but their capture is uncertain and sometimes attended with danger. The eagle-ray of the Mediterranean and Atlantic (Myliobatis aquila) is occasionally found off the British coasts.
(A. C. G.; J. G. K.)
RAY (or Wray, as he wrote his name till 1670), JOHN (1628-1705), sometimes called the father of English natural history, was the son of the blacksmith of Black Notley near Braintree in Essex, where he was born on the 29th of November 1628, or, according to other authorities, some months earlier. From Braintree school he was sent at the age of sixteen to Catharine Hall, Cambridge, whence he removed to Trinity College after about one year and three-quarters. His tutor at Trinity was Dr James Duport (1606-1679), regius professor of Greek, and his intimate friend and fellow-pupil the celebrated Isaac Barrow. Ray was chosen minor fellow of Trinity in 1649, and in due course became a major fellow on proceeding to the master’s degree. He held many college offices, becoming successively lecturer in Greek (1651), mathematics (1653),and humanity (1655), praelector (1657), junior dean (1657), and college steward (1659 and 1660); and according to the habit of the time, he was accustomed to preach in his college chapel and also at Great St Mary’s before the university, long before he took holy orders. Among his sermons preached before his ordination, which was not till the 23rd of December 1660, were the famous discourses on The Wisdom of God in the Creation, and on the Chaos, Deluge and Dissolution of the World. Ray’s reputation was high also as a tutor; and he communicated his own passion for natural history to several pupils, of whom Francis Willughby is by far the most famous.
Ray’s quiet college life closed when he found himself unable to subscribe to the Act of Uniformity of 1661, and was obliged to give up his fellowship in 1662, the year after Isaac Newton had entered the tollcge. We arc told by Dr Derham in his Life of Ray that the reason of his refusal “ was not (as some have imagined) his having taken the * Solemn League and Covenant,’ for that he never did, and often declared that he ever thought it an unlawful oath; but he said he could not declare for those that had taken the oath that no obligation lay upon them, but feared there might.” From this time onwards he seems to have depended chiefly on the bounty of his pupil Willughby, who made Ray his constant companion while he lived, and at his death left him £60 a year, with the charge of educating his two sons.
In the spring of 1663 Ray started together with Willughby and two other pupils on a tour through Europe, from which he returned in March 1666, parting from Willughhy at Montpellier, whence the latter continued his journey into Spain. He had previously in three different journeys (1658, 1661, 1662) travelled through the greater part of Great Britain, and selections from his private notes of these journeys were edited by George Scott in 1760, under the title of Mr Ray's Itineraries. Ray himself published an account of his foreign travel in 1673, entitled Observations topographical, moral, and physiological, made on a'Journey through part of the Low Countries ¡Germany, Italy, and France. From this tour Ray and Willughby returned laden with collections, on which they meant to base complete systematic descriptions of the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Willughhy undertook the former part, but, dying in 1672, left only an ornithology and ichthyology, in themselves vast, for Ray to edit; while the latter used the botanical collections for the groundwork of his Methodus plant arum nova (1682), and his great Historia generalis plantarum (3 vols., 1686, 1688, 1704). The plants gathered on his British tours had already been described in his Catalogas plantar um Angliae (1670), which work is the basis of all later English flotas.
In 1667 Ray was elected a fellow of the Royal Society, and in 1669 he published in conjunction with Willughby his first paper in the Philosophical Transactions on “ Experiments concerning the Motion of Sap in Trees.” They demonstrated the ascent of the sap through the wood of the tree, and supposed the sap to u precipitate a kind of white coagulum or jelly, which may be well conceived to be the part which every year between bark and tree turns to wood and of which the leaves and fruits are made.” Immediately after his admission into the Royal Society he was induced by Bishop John Wilkins to translate his Real Character into Latin, and it seems he actually completed a translation, which, however, remained in manuscript; his Methodus planiarum nova was in fact undertaken as a part of Wilkins’s great classificatory scheme.
In 1673 Ray married Margaret Oakley of Launton (Oxford); in 1676 he went to Sutton Coldfield, and in 1677 to Falborne Hall in Essex. Finally, in 1679, he removed to Black Notley, where he afterwards remained. His life there was quiet and uneventful, but embittered by bodily weakness and chronic sores. He occupied himself in writing hooks and in keeping up a wide scientific correspondence, and lived, in spite of his infirmities, to the age of seventy-six, dying at Black Notley on the 17th of January 1705. The Ray Society, for the publication of works on natural history, was founded in his honour in 1844.
Ray’s first book, the Catalogas planiarum circa Cantabrigiam nascentium (1660, followed by appendices in 1663 and 1685), was written in conjunction with his “ amicissimus et individuus comes,” John Nid. The plants, 626 in number, are enumerated alphabeti-:ally, but a system of classification differing little from Caspar Bauhin's is sketched at the end of the book; and the notes contain many curious references to other parts of natural history. The stations of the plants are minutely described; ^ and Cambridge students still gather some of their rarer plants in the copses or chalk-pits where he found them. The book shows signs of his indebtedness to Joachim Jung of Hamburg, who had died in 1657, leaving his writings unpublished; but a MS. copy of some of them was sent to Ray by- Samuel Hartlib in 1660. Jung invented or gave precision to many technical terms which Ray and others at once made use of in their descriptions, and which are rum classical; and bis notions of what constitutes a specific distinction and what characters are valueless as such seem to have been adopted with little change by Ray. The first two 'editions of the Catalogas planiarum Angliae (1670, 1677) were likewise arranged alphabetically; but in the Synopsis stirpium Britannicarum (1690, 1696, ilso re-edited by Dillenius, 1724, and by Hill, 1760) Ray applied the scheme of classification which he had by that time elaborated in the Methodus and the Historia planiarum. The Methodus plant-1 rum nova (1682) was largely based on the works of Caesalpinus md Jung, and still more on that of Robert Morison of Oxford. The greatest merit of this book is the use of the number of cotyledons is a basis of classification; though it must be remembered that the difference between the monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous embryo was detected by Nehemiah Grew. After dividing plants into flowerless and flowering, Ray says, ” Floríferas dividemus in Dicotyledones, quarum semina sata binis foliis anomalis, seminal-ibus dictis, quae cotyledonorum usum praestant, e terra exeunt, vel in binos saltern lobos dividuntur, quamvis eos supra terrem foliorum specie non efferunt; et Monocotyledones, quae nec folia bina ■ seminalia efferunt nec lobos binos condunt. Haec divisio ad arbores etiam extendi potest; siquidem Palmae et congeneres hoc respectu eodem modoa reliquis arboribus differunt quo Monocotyledones a reliquis herbis.” But a serious blemish was his persistent separation of trees from herbs, a distinction whose falsity had been exposed by J ung and others, but to which Ray tried to give scientific foundation by denying the existence of buds m the latter. At this time he based his classification, like Caesalpinus, chiefly upon the fruit, and he distinguished several natural groups, such as the grasses, Labia tae, Umbelliferae and Papilionaceae. The classification of the Methodus was extended and improved in the Historia planiarum, but was disfigured by a large class of Anomalae, to include forms that the other orders did not easily admit, and by the separation of the cereals from other grasses. This vast book enumerates and describes all the plants known to the author or described by his predecessors, to the number, according to Adanson, of 18,625 species. In the first volume a chapter “ De plant is in genere ” contains an account of all the anatomical and physiological knowledge of the time regarding plants, with the recent speculations and b discoveries of Caesalpinus, Grew, Malpighi and Jung; and Cuvier* and Du petit Thouars, declaring that it was this chapter which gave acceptance and authority to these authors’ works, say that “ the best monument that could be erected to the memory of Ray would be the republication of this part of his work separately.” The Stirpium Europaearum extra Britannias nascentium Sylloge (169^) is a much amplified edition of the catalogue of plants collected on his own^ European tour. In the preface to this book he first clearly admitted the doctrine of the sexuality of plants, which, however, he had no share in establishing. Here also begins his long controversy with Rivinus (Augustus Quirinus Bachmann) which chiefly turned upon Ray’s indefensible separation of ligneous from herbaceous plants, and also upon what he conceived to be the misleading reliance that Rivinus placed on the characters of the corolla. But in the second edition of his Methodus (1703) he followed Rivinus and J. P. de Tournefort in taking the flower instead of the fruit as his basis of classification: he was no longer a fructicist but a corollist.
Besides editing his friend^ Willughby’s books, Ra? wrote several zoological works of his own, including Synopsis methodica Animalium Quadrupedum et Serpentini Generis (1693), that is to say, both mammals and reptiles, and Synopsis methodica Avium et Piscium (1713); the latter was published posthumously, as was also the more importan Historia Insectorum (1710), which embodied a great mass of Willughby’s notes.
Most of Ray’s minor works were the outcome of his faculty for carefully amassing facts; for instance, his Collection of English Proverbs (1670), his Collection. of Out-of-the-way English Words (1674), his Collection of Curious Travels and Voyages (1693), and his Dictionariolum trilingüe (1675, 5th edition as Nomenclátor classicus, 1706). The last was written for the use of Willughby’s sons, his pupils; it passed through many editions, and is still useful for its careful identifications of plants and animals mentioned by Greek and Latin writers. But Ray’s influence and reputation have depended largely upon his two books entitled The Wisdom of God manifested in the Works of the Creation (1691), and Miscellaneous Discourses concerning the Dissolution and Changes> of the World (1692). The latter includes three essays on “ The Primitive Chaos and Creation of the World,” “ The General Deluge, its Causes and Effects,” and “ The Dissolution of the World and Future Conflagrations.” The germ of these works was contained in sermons preached long before in Cambridge. Both books obtained immediate popularity, and the former, at least, was translated into several languages. In The Wisdom of God, &c.t Ray recites innumerable examples of the perfection of organic mechanism, the multitude and variety of living creatures, the minuteness and usefulness of their parts, and many, if not most, of the familiar examples of purposive adaptation and design in nature w'ere suggested by him, such as the structure of the eye, the hollowness of the bones, the camel’s stomach and the hedgehog’s armour.
Authorities.—Select Remains, Itineraries and Life, by Dr Derham, edited by George Scott, 1740; notice by Sir j. E. Smith in Rees’s Cyclopaedia; notice by Cuvier and A. Dupetit Thouars in the Biographie universelle; all these were collected under the title Memorials of Ray, and edited (with the addition of a complete catalogue of his works) by Dr Edwin Lankester, Svo (Ray Society), 1846; Correspondence (with Willughby, Martin Lister, Dr Robinson, Petiver, Derham, Sir Hans Sloane and others), edited by Dr Derham, 1718; Selections, with additions, edited by Lankester (Ray Society), 1848. For accounts of Ray’s system of classification, see Cuvier, Leqons hist. s. Sci. Nat., p. 488; Sprengel, Gesch. d. Botanik, ii. p. 40; Sachs, Gesch. d. Botanik; also Whewell, Hist. Ind. Sci., iii. p. 332 (ed. 1847), and Wood, art. “ Classification ” in Rees’s Cyclopaedia.    (D. W. T.)
RAYAH (Arabic ra'iyah, peasants, subjects, flock, herd, ra'a, to pasture, cf. “ ryot,” an Indo-Persian variant of the same word), the name given to the non-Moslem subjects of a
Mahommedan ruler; all who pay the haraj or poll-tax levied on unbelievers. Five classes of rayahs existed under Turkish rule,—(i) the Greek, or Roum milled; (2) the Armenian, or Emeni milled; (3) the Catholic Armenians—eremeni gatoliki milled; (4) the Latin Christians, or Roum gatoliki milled; and
(5) the'Jews, or ichondi milled. The name rayah is most commonly used of the peasants, but it does not apply only to the agricultural populations. It depended on status, fixed by religious faith.
RAYLEIGH, JOHN WILLIAM STRUTT, 3rd baron (1842-    ), English physicist, was born in Essex on the 12th of
November 1842, being the son of the 2nd baron.@@1 Going to Trinity College, Cambridge, he graduated as senior wrangler in 1865, and obtained the first Smith's prize of the year, the second being gained by Professor Alfred Marshall. He married in 1871 a sister of Mr A. J. Balfour, and succeeded to the title in 1873. From 1879 to 1884 he was Cavendish professor of experimental physics in the university of Cambridge, in succession to Clerk Maxwell; and in 1887 he accepted the post of professor of natural philosophy at the Royal Institution of Great Britain, which he resigned in 1905. His early mathematical and physical papers, written under the name of J. W. Strutt, made him known over Europe; and his powers rapidly matured until, at the death of Clerk Maxwell, he stood at the head of British physicists, Sir George Stokes and Lord Kelvin alone excepted. The special feature of his work is its extreme accuracy and definiteness; he combines the highest mathematical acumen with refinement of experimental skill, so that the idea of ranking him as higher in one department than another does not arise. His experimental investigations are carried out with plain and usually home-made apparatus, the accessories being crude and rough, but the essentials thoughtfully designed so as to compass in the simplest and most perfect manner the special end in view. A great part of his theoretical work consists in resurveying things supposed superficially to be already known, and elaborating their theory into precision and completeness. In this way he has gone over a great portion of the field of physics, and in many cases has either said the last word for the time being, or else started new and fruitful develop*· ments. Possessing an immense range of knowledge, he has filled up lacunae in nearly every part of physics, by experiment, by calculation, and by clear accurate thought. The following branches have especially felt his influence:—chemical physics, capillarity and viscosity, theory of gases, flow of liquids, photography, optics, colour vision, wave theory, electric and magnetic problems, electrical measurements, elasticity, sound and hydrodynamics. The numerous scientific memoirs in which his original work is set forth were collected under his own editorship in four large volumes, the last of which was published in 1903. His most extensive single work is a book on Sound, which, in the second edition, has become a treatise on vibrations in general. His familiarity with the methods of mathematical analysis and a certain refinement of taste in their application have resulted in great beauty of form. His papers are often difficult to read, but never diffuse or tedious; his mathematical treatment is never needlessly abstruse, for when his analysis is complicated it is only so because the subject-matter is complicated. Of discoveries superficially sensational there are few or none to record, and the weight of his work is for the most part to be appreciated only by professed physicists. One remarkable discovery, however, of general interest, was the outcome of a long series of delicate weighings and minute experimental care in the determination of the relative density of nitrogen gas—undertaken in order to determine the atomic weight of nitrogen—namely, the discovery of argon, the first of a series of new substances, chemically inert, which occur, some only in excessively minute quantities, as constituents of the
@@@1 The barony was created at George IV.*s coronation in 1821 for the wife of Joseph Holden Strutt, M.P. for Maldon (1790-1826) and Okehampton (1826-1830), who had done great service during the French War as colonel of the Essex militia. He died in 1845, his wife, the baroness, predeceasing him in 1836. Their son (d. 1873) was the 2nd baron.
earth's atmosphere. Lord Rayleigh had an interest in abnormal psychological investigations, and became a member and vice-president of the Society for Psychical Research. He was one of the original members of the Order of Merit, instituted in connexion with the coronation of King Edward VII. In 1904 he was awarded a Nobel prize, and at the end of 1905 he became president of the Royal Society, of which he had been elected a fellow in 1873, and had acted as secretary from 1885 to 1896. He remained president till 1908, in which year he was chosen to succeed the 8th duke of Devonshire as chancellor of Cambridge University.
For a popular but authentic account of some of Lord Rayleigh’s scientific work and discoveries, see an article by Sir Oliver Lodge in the Nadonal Review for September 1898.
RAYMOND,HENRY JARVIS (1820-1869), American journalist, was born near the village of Lima, Livingston county, New York, on the 24th of January 1820. He graduated from the university of Vermont in 1840. After assisting Horace Greeley (9.?.) in the conduct of more than one newspaper, Raymond in 1851 formed the firm of Raymond, Jones & Co., and the first issue of the New York Times appeared on the 18th of September 1851; of this journal Raymond was editor and chief proprietor until his death. Raymond was a member of the New York Assembly in 1850 and 1851, and in the latter year was speaker. He supported the views of the radical anti-slavery wing of the Whig party in the North. His nomination over Greeley on the Whig ticket for lieutenant-governor in 1854 led to the dissolution of the famous political “ firm ” of Seward, Weed and Greeley. Raymond was elected, and served in 1854-56. He took a prominent part in the formation of the Republican party, and drafted the famous “ Address to the People " adopted by the Republican convention which met in Pittsburg on the 22nd of February 1856. In 1862 he was again a member, and speaker, of the New York Assembly. During the Civil War he supported Lincoln’s policy in general, though deprecating his delays, and he was among the first to urge the adoption of a broad and liberal attitude in dealing with the people of the South. In 1865 he was a delegate to the National Republican Convention, and was made a member, and chairman, of the Republican National Committee. He was a member of the National House of Representatives in 1865-67, and on the 22nd of December 1865 he ably attacked Thaddeus Stevens's theory of the “ dead ” states, and, agreeing with the President, argued that the states were never out of the Union, inasmuch as the ordinances of secession were null. In consequence of this, of his prominence in the Loyalist (or National Union) Convention at Philadelphia in August 1866, and of his authorship of the' “ Address and Declaration of Principles,” issued by the convention, he lost favour with his party. He was removed from the chairmanship of the Republican National Committee in 1866, and in 1867 his nomination as minister to Austria, which he had already refused, was rejected by the Senate. He retired from public life in 1S67 and devoted his time to newspaper work until his death in New York city on the 18th of June 1869. Raymond was an able and polished public speaker; one of his best known speeches was a greeting to Kossuth, whose cause he warmly defended. But his great work was in elevating the style and general tone of American journalism. He published several books, including a biography of President Lincoln—The Life and Public Services of Abraham Lincoln (1865), which in substance originally appeared as A History of the Administration of President Lincoln (1864).
See Augustus Maverick, Henry J. Raymond and the New York Press for Thirty Years (Hartford, Conn., 1870); and "Extracts from the Journal of Henry J. Raymond,” edited by his son, Henry H. Raymond, in Scribners* Monthly, vols. xix. and xx. (New York, 1879-80).
RAYMOND OF SABUNDE, or Sabiende (fl. 1434), Spanish scholar, was a teacher of medicine and philosophy and finally regius professor of theology at Toulouse. His Liber naturae sive creaturarum>&c. (written 1434-36), marks an important stage in the history of Natural Theology. The book was directed against the position then generally held, that reason and faith,
philosophy and theology were antithetical and irreconcilable. Raymond declares that the book of Nature and the Bible are both Divine revelations, the one general and immediate, the other specific and mediate. The Editio Princeps of the book, which found many imitators, is undated but probably belongs to 1484; there are many subsequent editions, one hy J. F. von Seidel as late as 1852. In 1595 the Prologus was put on the Index for its declaration that the Bible is the only source of revealed truth. Montaigne (Essays, bk. ii. ch. xii., “ An Apologie of Raymond Sebond ”) tells how he translated the book into French and found “ the conceits of the author to be excellent, the contexture of his work well followed, and his project full of pietie. . . . His drift is bold, and his scope adventurous, for he undertaketh by humane and naturall reasons, to establish and vérifié all the articles of Christian religion against Atheists.”
See D. Beulet, Un Inconnu célèbre: recherches historiques et critiques sur Raymond de Sabunde (Paris, 1875).
RAYMUND, prince of Antioch (1099-1149), was the son of William VI., count of Poitou. On the death of Bohemund II. of Antioch (q.v.), the principality devolved upon his daughter, Constance, a child of some three years of age (1130). Fulk, the king of Jerusalem, and, as such, guardian of Antioch, was concerned to find a husband for her, and sent envoys to England to offer her hand to Raymund, who was then at the court of Henry I. Raymund accepted the offer, and stealing in disguise through southern Italy, for fear of apprehension by Roger of Sicily, who claimed the inheritance of Antioch as cousin of Bohemund I., he reached Antioch in 1135. Here he was married to Constance by the patriarch, but not until he had done him homage and fealty. The marriage excited the indignation of Alice, the mother of Constance, who had been led by the patriarch to think that it was she whom Raymund desired to wed; and the new prince had thus to face the enmity of the princess dowager and her party. In 1137 he had also to face the advent of the eastern emperor, John Comnenus, who had come south partly to recover Cilicia from Leo, the prince of Armenia, but partly, also, to assert his rights over Antioch. Raymund was forced to do homage, and even to promise to cede his principality as soon as he was recompensed by a new fief, which John promised to carve for him in the Mahommedan territory to the east of* Antioch. The expedition of 1138, in which Raymund joined with John, and which was to conquer this territory, naturally proved a failure: Raymund was not anxious to help the emperor to acquire new territories, when their acquisition only meant for him the loss of Antioch; and John had to return unsuccessful to Byzantium, after vainly demanding from Raymund the surrender of the citadel of Antioch. There followed a struggle between Raymund and the patriarch. Raymund was annoyed by the homage which he had been forced to pay to the patriarch in 1135; and the dubious validity of the patriarch's election offered a handle for opposition. Eventually Raymund triumphed, and the patriarch was deposed (1139). In 1142 John Comnenus returned to the attack; but Raymund refused to recognize or renew his previous submission ; and John, though he ravaged the neighbourhood of Antioch, was unable to effect anything against him. When, however, Raymund demanded from Manuel, who had succeeded John in 1143, the cession of some of the Cilician towns, he found that he had met his match. Manuel forced him to a humiliating visit to Constantinople, during which he renewed his oath of homage and promised to receive a Greek patriarch. The last event of importance in Raymund’s life was the visit to Antioch in 1148 of Louis VII. and his wife Eleanor, Raymund's niece. Raymund sought to prevent Louis from going south to Jerusalem, and to induce him to stay in Antioch and help in the conquest of Aleppo and Caesarea. Perhaps for this end he acquired an influence over his niece, which was by some interpreted as a guilty intimacy. At any rate Louis hastily left Antioch, and Raymund was balked in his plans. In 1149 he fell in battle during an expedition against Nureddin. Raymund is described by William of Tyre (the main authority for his career) as handsome and affable; pre-eminent in the use of arms and military experience; litteratorum, licet ipse illiteratus esset} cultor (he caused the Chanson des chétifs to be composed); a regular churchman and a faithful husband; but headstrong, irascible and unreasonable, with too great a passion for gambling (bk. xiv. c. xxi.).
For his career see Rey, in the Revue de Vorient latinf vol. iv.
(E. Br.)
RAYMUND OF TOULOUSE (sometimes also called Raymund of St Giles, after a town to the south of Nimes), count of Provence, one of the leaders of the first Crusade. According to an Armenian authority, he had lost an eye on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem before the first Crusade; but the statement probably rests on the fact that he was one-eyed, vir monoculus. He is also recorded to have fought against the Moors in Spain before 1096; and it is certain that he was the first of the princes of the West to take the cross after Pope Urban's sermon at Clermont. The oldest and the richest of the crusading princes, the count of Provence started, at the end of October 1096, with a large company, which included his wife, his son, and Adhemar, bishop of Puy, the Papal Legate. His march lay by Ragusa and Scutari to Durazzo, whence he struck eastward, along the route also used by Bohemund, to Constantinople. At the end of April 1097 he was with difficulty induced to take a somewhat negative oath of fealty to Alexius; for the obstinacy which was one of his characteristics, coupled perhaps with some hope of acquiring new territories, made him reluctant to submit like the other crusaders to Alexius. He was present at Nicaea and Dory-laeum; but he first showed his hand in October 1097, when, as the army neared Antioch, and a rumour was spread that Antioch had been deserted by the Turks, he sent a detachment in advance to occupy the city—an action which presaged his future difficulties with Bohemund, the would-be prince of Antioch. In the siege of Antioch (which was far from having been deserted) Raymund played his part. When the city was taken by Bohemund (June 1098), the count garrisoned the palatium Cassiani (the palace of the emir, Yagi Sian) and the tower over the Bridge Gate. He lay ill during the second siege of Antioch by Kerbogha; but in his camp a great spiritualistic activity culminated in the discovery of the Holy Lance by the Provençals. The miracle stimulated the crusaders to defeat Kerbogha: the Lance itself, discovered by the Provençals and carried henceforward by their count, became a valuable asset in Raymund's favour; and he began to put difficulties in the way of Bohemund’s retention of Antioch, obstinately alleging the oath to Alexius, and refusing to surrender the positions in the city which he had occupied. A struggle thus arose between the Provençals and the Normans, partly with regard to the genuineness of the Lance, which the Normans naturally doubted, and partly with regard to the possession of Antioch—the real issue at stake. Raymund was the first of the princes to leave Antioch, moving southward in the autumn of 1098 to the siege of Marra, but leaving a detachment of his troops in Antioch. With Bohemund left behind in Antioch; with the possession of the Holy Lance to give him prestige; and with the wealth which he had at his disposal, the count of Provence now definitely began to figure as the leader of the Crusade. If he could have consented to leave Bohemund in possession of Antioch and push southward, he might have achieved much. But he could not stomach the greatness of Bohemund; and when the Normans turned his troops out of Antioch in January 1099, he marched from Marra (which had been captured in December 1098) into the emirate of Tripoli, and began the siege of Area (February 1099), evidently with the idea of founding a power in Tripoli which would check the expansion of Bohemund’s principality to the south. The siege of Area was protracted; and the selfish policy of the count, which thus deferred the march to Jerusalem, lost him all support from the mass of the crusaders. A wave of indignation in the ranks, and the inducements which the emir of Tripoli offered to the other princes, forced Raymund to desist from the siege (May 1098), and to march southwards to Jerusalem. After the capture of Jerusalem, Raymund was offered, but refused, the advocacy of the Holy Sepulchre. He alleged his reluctance to rule in the city in which Christ had suffered:
it is perhaps permissible to suspect that he hankered for the principality of Tripoli and the renewal of hostilities with Bohemund. As at Antioch, so at Jerusalem, he fell into strife with the new ruler; and it was only with difficulty that Godfrey was able to secure from him the possession of the Tower of David, which he had originally occupied. The grasping nature of Raymund again appeared after the battle of Ascalon, when his eagerness to occupy Ascalon for himself prevented it from being occupied at all; while Godfrey also blamed him for the failure of his army to capture Arsuf. It almost seems as if the count could not appear without becoming a centre of storms; and when he went north, in the winter of 1099-1100, his first act was one of hostility against Bohemund, from whom he helped to wrest Laodicea. From Laodicea he went to Constantinople, where he fraternized with Alexius, the great enemy of his own enemy Bohemund. Joining in the ill-fated Crusade which followed in the wake of the First, he was successful in escaping from the dibdcley and returning to Constantinople. In 1102 he came by sea from Constantinople to Antioch, where he was imprisoned by Tancrcd, regent of Antioch during the captivity of Bohemund, and only dismissed upon promising not to attempt any conquests in the country between Antioch and Acre. He broke his promise, attacking and capturing Tortosa, and beginning to build a castle for the reduction of Tripoli (on the Mons Peregrinus). In this policy he was aided by Alexius, who was naturally willing to see the erection of a tributary county of Tripoli to the south of Bohemund's principality. In 1105 Raymund died. He was succeeded by his nephew William, who in 1109, with the aid of Baldwin I., captured the town and definitely established the county of Tripoli. William was ousted in the same year by Raymund’s eldest son Bertrand; and the county continued in the possession of his house during the 12th century.@@1
Raymund of Toulouse represents the Provencal element in the first Crusade, as Bohemund represents the Norman, and Godfrey and Baldwin the Lotharingian. Religiosity, obstinacy and greed seem curiously blended in his composition. The first quality appears in the episode of the Lance, and in his renunciation of the advocacy of Jerusalem: the second appears in the whole of his attitude to Bohemund: the third appears again and again, whenever the progress of the Crusades brought any new conquest. If in temperament he is the least attractive among the princes of the first Crusade, he was yet one of its foremost leaders, and he left his mark upon history in the foundation of the county of Tripoli.
Raymund of Agiles, a clerk in the Provencal army, gives the history of the first Crusade from his master’s point of view. For a modem account of Count Raymund’s part in the crusading movement, one may refer to Rfihricht’s works (see Crusades).
(E. Br.)
RAYMUND OF TRIPOLI, the most famous of the descendants of Raymund of Toulouse, was a great-grandson of his eldest son Bertrand: his mother was Hodierna, a daughter of Baldwin II., and through her he was closely connected with the kings of Jerusalem. He became count of Tripoli in 1152, on the assassination of his father. In 1164 he was captured by Nur-eddin, and was only released in 1172 after a captivity of eight years. In 1174 he claimed the regency on behalf of Baldwin IV. (at once a minor and a leper), in virtue of his close relationship; and the claim was acknowledged. After two years the regency seems to have passed to Reginald of Ch&tillon; but Raymund, who had married the heiress of the county of Tiberias, continued to figure in the affairs of the kingdom. His great ability procured him enemies; for two years, 1180-1182, Baldwin IV. was induced by evil advisers to exclude him from his territories. But as Saladin grew more threatening, Raymund grew more indispensable; and in 1184 he became regent for Baldwin V., on condition that, if the king died before his majority, his successor should be determined by the great powers of the West. Raymund conducted the regency with skill, securing a truce from
@@@1 For the future history of the county, see under Raymund of Tripoli and_BoHEMUND iv.
Saladin in 1185; but when Baldwin V. died, in 1186, all went wrong. Raymund summoned an assembly of the barons to Naplous to deliberate on the situation; but while they deliberated, the supporters of Guy de Lusignan (the husband of Baldwin IV.’s sister, Sibylla) acted, and had him crowned, in defiance of the stipulation under which Raymund had become regent. The rest of the barons came over to Guy; and Raymund, left in isolation, retired to Tiberias and negotiated a truce for himself with Saladin. His ambiguous position led contemporaries to accuse him of treasonable correspondence with Saladin; but his loyalty to the Christian cause was’nobly shown in 1187, when he reconciled himself to Guy, and aided him in the battle of Hattin, which was engaged, however, in the teeth of his earnest advice. He escaped from the battle wounded, and ultimately retired to Tripoli, where he died (1187).
In the corrupt society of the latter days of the kingdom of Jerusalem, Raymund showed himself at least as disinterested as any other man, and certainly more capable than the rest of his contemporaries. He might have saved Jerusalem, if Jerusalem could have been saved; but his was the vox clatnanlis in deserlo. “He is worthy of the throne,” wrote a contemporary Arabic chronicler: “ he seems destined for it by nature, who has given him pre-eminent wisdom and courage.”    (E. Br.)
RAYNAL, GUILLAUME THOMAS FRANCOIS (1713-1796), French writer, was born at Saint-Geniez in Rouergue on the 12th of April 1713. He was educated at the Jesuit school of Pezenas, and received priest's orders, but he was dismissed for unexplained reasons from the parish of Saint-Sulpice, Paris, to which he was attached, and thenceforward he devoted himself to society and literature. The Abbe Raynal wrote for the Mercure de France, and compiled a series of popular but superficial works, which he published and sold himself. These— UHistoire du slalhoudtrat (The Hague, 1748), UHistoire du parlement d’Anglelerre (London, 1748), Anecdotes hxstoriques (Amsterdam, 3 vols., 1753)—gained for him access to the salons of Mme. Geoffrin, Helvetius, and the baron d’Holbach. He had the assistance of various members of the pkilosophe coteries in his most important work, UHistoire philosophique et politique des 0tablissements el du commerce des EuropSens dans les deux hides (Amsterdam, 4 vols., 1770). Diderot indeed is credited with a third of this work, which was characterized by Voltaire as “ du rechauffe avec de la declamation.” The other chief collaborators were Pechmeja, Holbach, Paulze, the farmer-general of taxes, the Abb£ Martin, and Alexandre Deleyre. To this piecemeal method of composition, in which narrative alternated with tirades on political and social questions, was added the further disadvantage of the lack of exact information, which, owing to the dearth of documents, could only have been gained by personal investigation. The “philosophic” declamations perhaps constituted its chief interest for the general public, and its significance as a contribution to democratic propaganda. The Histoire went through many editions, being revised and augmented from time to time by Raynal; it was translated into the principal European languages, and appeared in various abridgments. Its introduction into France was forbidden in 1779; the book was burned by the public executioner, and an order was given for the arrest of the author, whose name had not appeared in the first edition, but was printed on the title page of the Geneva edition of 1780. Raynal escaped to Spa, and thence to Beriin, where he was coolly received by Frederick the Great, in spite of his connexion with the pkilosophe party. At St Petersburg he met with a more cordial reception from Catherine II., and in 1787 he was permitted to return to France, though not to Paris. He showed generosity in assigning a considerable income to be divided annually among the peasant proprietors of upper Guienne. He was elected by Marseilles to the States-gcncral, but refused to sit on the score of age. Raynal now realized the impossibility of a peaceful revolution, and, in terror of the proceedings for which the writings of himself and his friends had prepared the way, he sent to the Constituent Assembly an address, which was read on the 31st of May 1791, deprecating the violence of its reforms. This address is said
by Sainte-Beuve {Nouveaux lundis, xi.) to have been composed chiefly by Clermont Tonnerre and Pierre V. Malouet, and it was regarded, even by moderate men, as ill-timed. The published Lettre de l’.abbê Raynal à VAssemblée nationale (loth Dec. 1790) was really the work of the comte de Guibert. During the Terror Raynal lived in retirement at Passy and at Montlhéry. On the establishment of the Directory in 1795 he became a member of the newly organized Institute of France. He died in the next year on the 6th of March at Chaillot.
A detailed bibliography of his works and of those falsely attributed to him will be found in Quérard’s La France littéraire, and the same author's Supercheries dévoilées. The biography by A. Jay, prefixed to Peuchet’s edition (Paris, 10 vols, 1820-1821) of the Histoire . . . des Indes, is of small value. To this edition Peuchet added two supplementary volumes on colonial development from 1785 to 1824. See also the anonymous Raynal démasqué (1791) ; Cherhal Montréal, Eloge ... de G. T. Raynal (an. IV.) ; a notice in the Moniteur (5 vendémiaire, an. V.); B. Lunet, Biographie de Vaôbê Raynal (Rodez, 1866); and J. Morley, Diderot (1891).
RAYNALD OF CHÂTILLON (d. 1187), a knight in the service of Constance, princess of Antioch, whom she chose for her husband in 1153, four years after the death of her first husband, Raymund (?.t>.). One of Raynald's first acts was a brutal assault on the patriarch of Antioch; while two years later he made an un justifiable attack on Cyprus, in the course of which the island was ravaged. The act brought its punishment in 1159, when he had to humiliate himself before the emperor Manuel, doing homage and promising to accept a Greek patriarch; and when Manuel came to Antioch in the same year, and was visited there by Baldwin III., Raynald led his horse into the city. Later in the year he was captured by. the Mahommedans, during a plundering raid against the Syrian and Armenian peasants of the neighbourhood of Marash, and confined at Aleppo. His captivity lasted seventeen years. Released in 1176, he married Stephanie, the widow of Humphrey of Toron, and heiress of Krak and Mont Royal, to the S.E. of the Dead Sea—fortresses which controlled the trade-routes between Egypt and Damascus, and gave him access to the Red Sea. In November 1177, at the head of the army of the kingdom, he won a victory over Saladin, who only escaped with difficulty from the pursuit. But in 1181 the temptation of the caravans which passed by his fortress proved too strong, and in spite of a truce between Saladin and Baldwin IV. he began to plunder. Saladin demanded reparations from Baldwin IV. Baldwin could only reply that he was unable to coerce his unruly vassal. The result was a new outbreak of war between Saladin and the Latin kingdom (1182). · In the course of the hostilities Raynald launched ships on the Red Sea, partly for buccaneering, partly, it seems, with the design of attacking Mecca, and of challenging Mabommedanism in its own holy place. His ships were captured by one of Saladin's officers; and at the end of the year Saladin himself attacked Raynald in his fortress of Krak, at a time when a number of guests were assembled to celebrate the marriage of his stepson, Humphrey of Toron. The siege was raised, however, by Count Raymund of Tripoli; and till 1186 Raynald was quiet. In that year he espoused the cause of Sibylla and Guy de Lusignan against Count Raymund, and his influence contributed to the recognition of Guy as king of Jerusalem. His policy at this crisis was not conceived in the best interests of the kingdom; and a step which he took at the end of the year was positively fatal. Hearing of a rich caravan, in which the sister of Saladin was travelling, he swooped down from his fortress upon it. Thus, for the second time, he broke a truce between the kingdom and Saladin. Guy could not extort from him the. satisfaction which Saladin demanded: Raynald replied that he was lord in his lands, and that he had no peace with Saladin to respect. Saladin swore that Raynald should perish if ever he took him prisoner; and next year he was able to fulfil his oath. He invaded the kingdom, and, at the battle of Hittin, Raynald along with King Guy and many others fell into his hands. * They were brought to his tent; and Saladin, after rebuking Raynald strongly for his treachery, offered him his life if he would become a Mahommedan. He refused, and
Saladin either slew him with his own hands or caused him to be slain (for accounts differ) in the presence of his companions.
The death of Raynald caused him to be regarded as a martyr; his life only shows him to have been a brigand of great capacity. He is the apotheosis of the feudal liberty which the barons of the Holy Land vindicated for themselves; and he shows, in his reckless brigandage, the worst side of their character. Stevenson, Crusades in the East (Cambridge, 1907), takes a most favourable view of Raynald's career: cf. especially pp. 240-241. But his whole life seems to indicate a self-willed and selfish temper.    (E. Br.)
RAYNAUD'S DISEASE, a malady first described by P. Edouard Raynaud in 1862 in a paper on “ Local Asphyxia and Symmetrical Gangrene of the Extremities.” The condition is said to be of central nervous origin, and cold, fright, or emotional disturbances are predisposing causes. It is a disease of childhood or early adult life, and females are more frequently affected than males. Raynaud attributed the symptoms to an arrest of the passage of blood to the affected parts, and considered this due to a spasm of the arterioles. If the spasm be sufficiently prolonged and intense to completely close the arterial channels gangrene of the part may be the result.
The local symptoms are divided into three well-marked stages. The first is local syncope, in which the affected parts become temporarily bloodless, white, cold, and anaesthetic. The condition is familiar in what is termed a “ dead finger,” and is usually bilateral. After a variable time the circulation may become restored with a tingling sensation, or the disease may progress to the second stage, that of local asphyxia. In this condition some part of the body, usually a finger, toe, or the whole hand or foot, becomes painful to the touch and is noticed to be dusky in colour, or bluish-purple or even mottled, and the surface is cold. This discoloration may deepen until the skin is almost black, the tactile sense being lost. After several hours the pain may subside, the attack of lividity pass off, and warmth return to the skin. Such attacks of local asphyxia may return every day for a time. Sometimes severe abdominal pain is present, accompanied by haematuria. The frequency of haematuria in this connexion was first noticed by Hutchinson in 1871. In the third stage, that of local gangrene, the involved areas assume a black and shrivelled appearance, livid streaks marking the course of the arteries; blebs may form containing bloody fluid. The degree of destruction varies from the detachment of a patch of soft tissue down to the loss of even a whole limb, the part becoming separated by a line of demarcation as in senile gangrene.
In Raynaud's disease the patients have been noticed to be very susceptible to cold and low temperatures; every effort should be made to keep the extremities warm; woollen underclothing and stockings should be worn, and the activity of the circulation roused by douches and exercise; by these means an attack may be prevented. Should local asphyxia have taken place, one of the best treatments to lessen pain and obtain the return of the natural colour is the application of the constant current. Sir T. Barlow directs its application, the limb being placed in a bath of warm salt and water. Cushing's method of inducing active hyperaemia has been attended with much success. This treatment is only applicable when the vascular spasm affects the extremities,. and consists in the artificial constriction of the limb by the application of a tourniquet or Esmarch's bandage for a few minutes daily. This is followed by hyperaemia and increased surface temperature, and affords much relief to the pain of the stage of asphyxia. Drugs which dilate the peripheral vessels, such as amyl nitrite and trinitrine, have also been recommended. When gangrene occurs in the affected part it should be well wrapped in absorbent cotton and kept dry, and all active treatment should cease until a line of demarcation has formed and the gangrenous portion separated. The disease tends towards recovery with more or less loss of tissue if the stage of gangrene has been reached.
RAYNOUARD, FRANCOIS JUSTE MARIE (1761-1836), French dramatist and savantf was born at Brignoles (Provence), on the 8th of September 1761. He was educated for the bar
and practised at Draguignan. In 1791 he went to Paris as deputy to the Legislative Assembly, but after the fall of the Girondists, to whose party he was attached, he had to go into hiding. He was, however, discovered and imprisoned in Paris. During his imprisonment he wrote his play Caton d'Utique (1794). EUonore de Bavibres and Les Templiers were accepted by the Com6die Francaise. Les Templiers was produced in 1805, and, in spite of the protests of Gcoffroy, had a great success Raynouard was admitted to the Academy in 1807, and from 1817 to 1826 he was perpetual secretary. He wrote other plays, in one of which, Les Utats de Blots (acted 1810), he gave offence to Napoleon by his freedom of speech, but, realizing that the public taste had changed and that the romanticists were to triumph, he abandoned the stage and gave himself up to linguistic studies. He was admitted to the Academy of Inscriptions in 1815. His researches into the Proven9al dialect were somewhat inexact, but his enthusiasm and perseverance promoted the study of the subject. His chief works arc Choix de pobsies originales des troubadours (6 vols., 1816-1821), of which the sixth volume, Grammaire comparie des langues de V Europe la tine dans leurs rapports avec la langue des troubadours (1821), was separately published; Lexique 'roman (6 vols., 1838-1844). He spent the last years of his life at Passy, where he died on the 27th of October 1836.
RAZGRAD, the capital of the department of Razgrad, Bulgaria, on the river Bieli-Lom, 40 m. S.E. of the Danubian port of Rustchuk by the Varna-Rustchuk railway. Pop. (1906) 13,783, about one-third being Moslems. The railway station is at Inebektchi, 2 m. N. Razgrad possesses a fine mosque, built by Ibrahim Pasha in 1614. Many Turkish families emigrated after the Russo-Turkish War of 1877, but since then the population has again increased, and the town has a thriving agricultural and general trade. Carpet-weaving and viticulture are important local industries. On the 13th of June 1810 and the 14th of August 1877 Razgrad was the scene of battles between the Turks and Russians.
RAZIN, STEPHEN TIMOFEEVICH (d. 1671), Cossack hetman and rebel, whose parentage and date and place of birth arc unknown. We first hear of him in 1661 on a diplomatic mission from the Don Cossacks to the Kalmuck Tatars, and in the same year we meet him on a pilgrimage of a thousand miles to the great Solovetsky monastery on the White Sea “ for the benefit of his soul.” After that all trace of him is lost for six years, when he reappears as the leader of a robber community established at Panshinskoe, among the marshes between the rivers Tishina and Ilovlya, from whence he levied blackmail on all vessels passing up and down the Volga. His first considerable exploit was to destroy the “ great water caravan ” consisting of the treasury-barges and the barges of the patriarch and the wealthy merchants of Moscow. He then sailed down the Volga with a fleet of thirty-five galleys, capturing the more important forts on his way and devastating the country. At the beginning of 1668 he defeated the voivode Jakov Bezobrazov, sent against him from Astrakhan, and in the spring embarked on a predatory expedition into Persia which lasted for eighteen months. Sailing into the Caspian, he ravaged the Persian coasts from Derbend to Baku, massacred the inhabitants of the great emporium of Resht, and in the spring of 1669 established himself on the isle of Suina, off which, in July, he annihilated a Persian fleet sent against him. Stenka,@@1 as he was generally called, had now become a potentate with whom princes did not disdain to treat. In August 1669 he reappeared at Astrakhan, and accepted a fresh offer of pardon from the tsar there; the common people were fascinated by his adventures. The semi-Asiatic kingdom of Astrakhan, where the whole atmosphere was predatory and nine-tenths of the population were nomadic, was the natural milieu for such a rebellion as Stenka Razin’s. In 1670 Razin, while ostensibly on his way to report himself at the Cossack headquarters on the Don, openly rebelled against the government, captured Cherkask, Tsaritsyn and other places, and on the 24th of June burst into Astrakhan itself. After massacring
@@@1 Steevy.
all who opposed him, and giving the rich’bazaars of the city over to pillage, he converted Astrakhan into a Cossack republic, dividing the population into thousands, hundreds and tens, with their proper officers, all of whom were appointed by a vyecha or general assembly, whose first act was to proclaim Stephen Timofeevich their gosudar (sovereign). After a three weeks’ carnival of blood and debauchery Razin quitted Astrakhan with two hundred barges full of troops to establish the Cossack republic along the whole length of the Volga, as a preliminary step towards advancing against Moscow. Saratov and Samara were captured, but Simbirsk defied all efforts, and after two bloody encounters close at hand on the banks of the Sviyaga (October 1st and 4th), Razin was ultimately routed and fled down the Volga, leaving the bulk of his followers to be extirpated by the victors. But the rebellion was by no means over. The emissaries of Razin, armed with inflammatory proclamations, had stirred up the inhabitants of the modem governments of Nizhniy-Novgorod, Tambov and Penza, and penetrated even so far as Moscow and Great Novgorod. It was not difficult to revolt the oppressed population by the promise of deliverance from their yoke. Razin proclaimed that his object was to root out the boyars and all officials, to level all ranks and dignities, and establish Cossackdom, with its corollary of absolute equality, throughout Muscovy. Even at the beginning of 1671 the issue of the struggle was doubtful. Eight battles had been fought before the insurrection showed signs of weakening, and it continued for six months after Razin had received his quietus. At Simbirsk his prestige had been shattered. Even his own settlements at Saratov and Samara refused to open their gates to him, and the Don Cossacks, hearing that the patriarch of Moscow had anathematized Stenka, also declared against him. In 1671 he was captured at Kagalnik, his last fortress, and carried to Moscow, where, on the 6th of June, after bravely enduring unspeakable torments, he was quartered alive.
See N. I. Kostomarov, The Rebellion of Stenka Razin (Rus.) (2nd ed., Petersburg, 1859); S. M. Solovev, History of Russia (Rus.), vol. ii. (Petersburg, 1895, &c.); R., N. Bain, The First Romanovs (London, 1905).    (R. N. B.)
RAZOR (O.F. rasort mod. rasoir, from raser, to scrape, rase, Late Lat. rasarej frequentative of raderet to scrape), a sharp-edged cutting instrument, used for shaving the hair and beard. The typical razor consists of a blade, usually curving slightly backward, folding into a handle, to which it is fastened by a tang and rivet. The back of the blade is thick and the sides are hollowed or slope to the fine edge (see Cutlery). In modem times various forms of safety-razor have been invented, in which the blade fits into a fixed handle with a toothed or comb-like shield which protects the face from cutting.
RAZORBILL, or Razor-billed Auk, known also on many parts of the British coasts as the Marrot, Murre, Scout, Tinker or Willock—names which it, however, shares with the Guillemot (fl.tf.) and to some extent with the Puffin (g.t?.)—a common sea-bird of the North Atlantic,1 resorting in vast numbers to certain rocky cliffs for the purpose of breeding, and returning to deeper waters for the rest of the year. It is the A lea torda of Linnaeus2 and most modem authors, congeneric with the Gare-fowl (tf.r.), if not with the true Guillemots, between which two forms it is intermediate—differing-from the former in its small size and retaining the power of flight, which that extinct species had lost, and from the latter in its peculiarly-shaped bill, which is vertically enlarged, compressed, and deeply furrowed, as well as in its elongated, wedge-shaped tail. A fine white line, running
1 Schlegel (Mus. des Pays-Bas, Urinatores, p. 14) records an example From Japan; but this must be in error.
* The word Alca is simply the Latinized form of this bird’s common Teutonic name, Alkt of which Auk is the English modification. It must therefore be held to be the type of the Linnaean genus Alca, though some systematists on indefensible grounds have removed it thence, making it the sole member of a genus named by Leach, after Aldrovandus (<Ornithologia, bk. xix. chap, xlix.), Utamania—^an extraordinary word, that seems to have originated in some mistake from the no less extraordinary Vuttamaria, given by Belon (Observations, i. c. xi.) as the Cretan name of some diving bird, which could not have been the present species.
on each side from the base of the culmen to the eye, is in the adult bird in breeding-apparel (with rare exceptions) a further characteristic. Otherwise the appearance of all these birds may be briefly described in the same words—head, breast and upper parts generally of a deep glossy black, and the lower parts and tip of the secondaries of a pure white, while the various changes of plumage dependent on age or season are alike in all. In habits the razorbill closely agrees with the true guillemots, laying its single egg (which is not, however, subject to the same variety of coloration as in the guillemot) on the ledges of cliffs, but it is said as a rule to occupy higher elevations, and when not breeding to keep farther out to sea. On the east side of the Atlantic the Razorbill has its breeding stations from the North Cape to Brittany, besides several in the Baltic, while in winter it passes much farther to the southward, and is sometimes numerous in the Bay of Gibraltar, occasionally entering the Mediterranean, but apparently never extending east of Sicily or Malta. On the west side of the Atlantic it breeds from 70° N. lat. on the eastern shore of Baffin’s Bay to Cape Farewell, and again on the coast of America from Labrador and Newfoundland to the Bay of Fundy, while in winter it reaches Long Island.    (A. N.)
RAZZIA (an adaptation of the Algerian Arabic ghoziah, from ghasw, to make war), a foray or raid made by African Moslems. As used by the Arabs, the word denotes a military expedition against rebels or infidels, and razzias were made largely for punishment of hostile tribes or for the capture of slaves. English writers in the early years of the 19th century used the form ghrazzie, and Dixon Denham in his Travels (1826) styles the raiding force itself the ghrazzie. The modern English form is copied from the French, while the Portuguese variant is gazia, gaziva.
RE, the Egyptian solar god, one of the most important figures in the Pantheon. See Egypt, section Egyptian Religion.
RÉ, ÎLE DE, an island of western France, belonging to the department of Charente-Inférieure, from the nearest mainland point of which it is distant about 2 m. The island has an area of nearly 33 sq. m., with a breadth varying from 1 to 4§ m. and a length of 15 m. It is separated from the coast of Vendée on the N. by the Pertuis Breton, some 6 m. broad, and from the island of Oleron on the S. by the Pertuis D’Antioche, 7^ m. broad. The coast facing the Atlantic is rocky and inhospitable, but there are numerous harbours on the landward side, of which the busiest is La Flotte. Towards the north-west extremity of the island there is a deep indentation, the Fier d’Ars, which leaves an isthmus only 230 ft. wide, strengthened by a breakwater. The north coast is fringed by dunes and by the salt-marshes which are the chief source of livelihood for the inhabitants. Some of them are employed in fishing, oyster-cultivation and the collection of seaweed for manure; the island has corn-lands and vineyards, the latter covering about half its surface, and produces good figs and pears. Apart from its orchards it is now woodless, though once covered by forests. There are two cantons, St Martin (pop. in 1906, 8362) and Ars-en-Ré (pop. 4711) forming part of the arrondissement of La Rochelle. St Martin, the capital, which has a secure harbour and trade in wine, brandy, salt, &c., was fortified by Vauban in 1681 and used to be the dépôt for convicts on their way to New Caledonia. In 1627 it repulsed an English force after a siege of three months.
READE, CHARLES (1814-1884), English novelist and dramatist, the son of an Oxfordshire squire, was born at Ipsden, Oxfordshire, on the 8th of June 1814. He entered Magdalen College, Oxford, proceeded B.A. in 1835, and became a fellow of his college. He was subsequently dean of arts, and vice-president of Magdalen College, taking his degree of D.C.L. in 1847. His name was entered at Lincoln’s Inn in 1836; he was elected Vinerian Fellow in 1842, and was called to the bar in 1843. He kept his fellowship at Magdalen all his life, but after taking his degree he spent the greater part of his time in London. He began his literary career as a dramatist, and it was his own wish that the word “ dramatist ” should stand first in the description of his occupations on his tombstone. He was dramatist first and novelist afterwards, not merely chronologically but in his aims as an author, always having an eye to stage-effect in scene and situation as well as* in dialogue. His first comedy, The Ladies' Battle, appeared at the Olympic Theatre in May 1851. It was followed by Angelo (1851), A Village Tale (1852), The Lost Husband (1852), and Gold (1853). But Reade’s reputation was made by the two-act comedy, Masks and Faces, in which he collaborated with Tom Taylor. It was produced in November 1852, and later was expanded into three acts. By the advice of the actress, Laura Seymour, he turned the play into a prose story which appeared in 1853 as Peg Woffington. He followed this up in the same year with Christie Johnstone, a close study of Scottish fisher folk, an extraordinary tour de force for the son of an English squire, whether we consider the dialect or the skill with which he enters into alien habits of thought. In 1854 he produced, in conjunction with Tom Taylor, Two Loves and a Life, and The King's Rival; and, unaided, The Courier of Lyons—well known under its later title, The Lyons Mail—and Peregrine Pickle. In the next year appeared Art, afterwards known as Nance Oldfield.
He made his name as a novelist in 1856, when he produced It's Never Too Late to Mend, a novel written with the purpose of reforming abuses in prison discipline and the treatment of criminals. He described prison life with a fidelity which becomes at times tedious and revolting; but the power of the descriptions was undeniable, and the interest was profound. The truth of some of his details was challenged, and the novelist defended himself with vigour against attempts to rebut his contentions. Five minor novels followed in quick succession,— The Course of True Love never did run Smooth (1857), Jack of all Trades (1858), The Autobiography of a Thief (1858), Love Me Little, Love Me Long (1859), and White Lies (i860), dramatized as The Double Marriage. Then appeared, in 1861, his masterpiece, The Cloister and the Hearth, relating the adventures of the father of Erasmus. He had dealt with the subject two years before in a short story in Once a Week, but, seeing its capabilities, expanded it; and the work is now recognized as one of the finest historical novels in existence. Returning from the 15th century to modern English life, he next produced another startling novel with a purpose, Hard Cash (1863), in which he strove to direct attention to the abuses of private lunatic asylums. Three more such novels, in two of which at least the moral purpose, though fully kept in view, was not allowed to obstruct the flow of incident, were afterwards undertaken,— Foul Play (1869), in which he exposed the iniquities of ship-knackers, and paved the way for the labours of Samuel Plimsoll; Put Yourself in his Place (1870), in which he grappled with the tyrannous outrages of trades-unions; and A Woman-Hater (1877), in which he exposed the degrading conditions of village life. The Wandering Heir (1875), of which he also wrote a version for the stage, was suggested by the Tichborne trial. Outside the line of these moral and occasional works Reade produced three elaborate studies of character,—Griffith Gaunt (1866), A Terrible Temptation (1871), A Simpleton (1873). The first of these was in his own opinion the best of his novels, and his own opinion was probably right. He was wrong, however, in his own conception of his powers as a dramatist. At intervals throughout his literary career he sought to gratify his dramatic ambition, hiring a theatre and engaging a company for the representation of his own plays. An example of his persistency was seen in the case of Foul Play. He wrote this in 1869 in combination with Mr Dion Boucicault with a view to stage adaptation. The play was more or less a failure; but he produced another version alone in 1877, under the title of A Scuttled Ship, and the failure was pronounced. His greatest success as a dramatist attended his last attempt—Drink—an adaptation of Zola’s L'Assommoir, produced in 1879. In that year his friend Laura Seymour, who had kept house for him since 1854, died. Reade’s health failed from that time, and he died on the nth of April 1884, leaving behind him a completed novel, A Perilous Secret, which showed no falling off in the arts of weaving a complicated plot and devising thrilling situations.
Readc was an amateur of the violin, and among his works is an essay on Cremona violins with the title, A Lost Art Revived.
It was characteristic of Readc’s open and combative nature that he admitted the public freely to the secrets of his method of composition. He spoke about his method in his prefaces; he introduced himself into one of his novels—“ Dr Rolfc ” in A Terrible Temptation; and by his will he left his workshop and his accumulation of materials open for inspection for two years after his death. He had collected an enormous mass of materials for his study of human nature, from personal observation, from newspapers, books of travel, blue-books of commissions of inquiry, from miscellaneous reading. This vast collection was classified and arranged in huge ledgers and notebooks. He had planned a great work on “ the wisdom and folly of nations,” dealing with social, political and domestic details, and it was chiefly for this that his collection was destined, but in passing he found the materials useful as a store of incidtents and suggestions. A collector of the kind was bound to be systematic, otherwise his collection would have fallen into confusion, and Readc’s collection contains many curiosities in classification and tabulation. On the value of this method for his art there has been much discussion, the prevalent opinion being that his imagination was overwhelmed and stifled by it. He himself maintained the contrary; and it must be admitted that a priori critics have not rightly understood the use that he made of his laboriously collected facts. He did not merely shovel the contents of his notebooks into his novels; they served rather as an atmosphere of reality in which he worked, so that his novels were like pictures painted in the open air. His imagination worked freely among them and was quickened rather than impeded by their suggestions of things suited to the purpose in hand; and it is probably to his close and constant contact with facts, acting on an imagination naturally fertile, that we owe his marvellous abundance of incident. Even in his novels of character there is no meditative and analytic stagnation; the development of character is shown through a rapid unceasing progression of significant facts. This rapidity of movement was perhaps partly the result of his dramatic studies; it was probably in writing for the stage that he learned the value of keeping the attention of his readers incessantly on the alert. The hankering after stage effect, while it saved him from dullness, often betrayed him into rough exaggeration, especially in his comic scenes. But the gravest defect in his work is a defect of temper. His vifew of human life, especially of the life of women, is almost brutal; his knowledge of frailties and vices is obtruded with repellent force; and he cannot, with all his skill as a story-teller, be numbered among the great artists who warm the heart and help to improve the conduct. But as a moral satirist, which was the function he professed over and above that of a storyteller, he did good service, both indirectly in his novels and directly in his own name.
See Charles L. Reade and Compton Reade, Charles Reade, a Memoir (2 vols.t 1887); A. C. Swinburne, Miscellanies (1886); and some recollections by John Coleman, Charles Reade as I knew him (1903).
READING, a municipal, county and parliamentary borough and the county town of Berkshire, England, 36 m. W. by S. of London by the Great Western railway. Pop. (1901) 72,217. It is an important junction on the Great Western system, and has communication southward by a joint line of the South-Western and South-Eastern and Chatham companies. The Rennet and Avon canal, to Bath and Bristol, and the Thames, afford it extensive connexions by water. It lies in the flat valley of the Thames on the south (right) bank, where the Rennet joins the main river. The population more than doubled in the last thirty years of the 19th century, and the town is of modem appearance. All the ancient churches are much restored and in part rebuilt. Grcyfriars church, formerly monastic, was completed early in the 14th century; and after the dissolution of the monasteries served successively as a town hall, a workhouse and a gaol, being restored to its proper use in 1864. St Mary’s is said to have been rebuilt in 1551 from the remains of a nunnery founded by ALlfthryth in expiation of the murder of her stepson Edward the Martyr. St Lawrence’s is a large Perpendicular building, and St Giles’s, in various styles, was much damaged during the siege of the town in 1643 by the parliamentary forces, and is almost wholly rebuilt. A Benedictine abbey was founded at Reading in 1121 by Henry I., and became one of the richest in England, with a church among the largest in the country. Its founder was buried here, but his monument was destroyed in the time of Edward VI. The church was the scene of John of Gaunt’s marriage to Blanche of Lancaster in 1359. By Henry VIII. the abbey was converted into a royal palace, and was so used until its destruction during the civil wars of the 17th century. Little remains of the foundation; only a gateway and a fragment of the great hall, the meeting-place of several parliaments, are of importance. The greater part of the site is occupied by public gardens.
The educational establishments arc important. The site of an ancient hospice of St John is occupied by the University Extension College. It was opened in 1892, is affiliated to Oxford University, and has accommodation for 600 students, of both sexes, giving instruction in every main branch of higher university education, agriculture, &c. The grammar school, founded in 1485, occupies modern buildings and ranks among the lesser public schools. Archbishop Laud was educated here, and became a generous benefactor of the school. There arc also a blue-coat school (1656), and other charitable schools of early foundation. The municipal museum, besides an art gallery and other exhibits, includes a fine collection of Romano-British relics from Silchester, the famous site not far distant in Hampshire. Besides the public grounds on the site of the abbey there may be mentioned Prospect Park of 131 acres, purchased by the Corporation, and Palmer Park, presented by a member of the firm of Huntley & Palmer, together with extensive recreation grounds.
The industry for which Reading is chiefly famous is the biscuit manufacture, the principal establishment for which is that of Messrs Huntley & Palmer, employing about 5000 hands. In the town and its vicinity are large seed warehouses and testing-grounds. There are also iron foundries, engineering w'orks and factories for agricultural implements, and manufactures of tin boxes, sauces, velvet and silk, and sacking, together with riverside boat-building yards. Reading gives title to a suffragan bishopric in the diocese of Oxford. The parliamentary borough returns one member. The municipal borough is under a mayor, 10 aldermen and 30 councillors. Area, 5876 acres.
Reading (Redinges, Rading, Redding) early became a place of importance. In 871 the Danes encamped here between the Thames and the Rennet, and in 1006 it was burned by Sweyn. It consisted of only thirty houses at the time of the Domesday Survey. There is some reason to think that a fortification existed there before the Conquest, and Stephen probably built a masonry castle which Henry II. destroyed. On the foundation of Reading abbey the town, hitherto demesne of the crown, was granted to the abbey by Henry I. Henceforth, until the 16th century, the chief feature of its history was the struggle as to rights and privileges. This was carried on between the abbey and the merchant gild which claimed to have existed in the time of the Confessor, and the chief officer of which was from the 15th century styled warder or mayor.
A 16th-century account of the gild merchant show’s that many trades were then carried on, but Leland says the town" chiefly stondith by clothing.” The story of Thomas Cole, written by Deloney (d. c. 1600) and purporting to refer to the reign of Henry I., indicates that the industry was carried on at an early date. Archbishop Laud was the son of a Reading clothier. By the 17th century the trade was beginning to decline; the bequest of Rendrich " the Phoenix of worthy Benefactors ” did little to revive it, and it was greatly injured by the Civil War. In the iSth century the chief trade was in malt. The first town charter is that given by Henry IH. (1253) on behalf of the “ burgesses in the Gild Merchant,” which was confirmed and
amplified by succeeding sovereigns. The governing charter until 1835 was that of Charles I. (1639) incorporating the town under the title of the mayor,: aldermen and burgesses. Reading returned two members to parliament from 1295 to 1885, when it was deprived of one; until 1832 the Scot-and-Lot franchise was used. The town surrendered to the parliamentary troops, after a siege, in 1643; it was occupied subsequently by the forces of both parties: in 1688 a skirmish took place in the town between some Irish soldiers of James II. and the troops of William of Orange. The market, chiefly held on Saturday, can be traced to the reign of Henry III.; four fairs granted by the charter of 1562 are still held, that on the 25th of July dating originally from a grant of Henry II. to Reading abbey.
See C. Coates, History of Reading (1806); Victoria County History, Berks.
READING, a city and the county-seat of Berks county, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., in the S.E. part of the state, on the E. bank of the Schuylkill river, and about 58 m. N.W. of Philadelphia. Pop. (1880) 43,278; (1890) 58,661; (1900) 78,961, of whom 5940 were foreign-born; (1910, census) 96,071. Reading is served by the Pennsylvania and the Philadelphia & Reading railways, by the Schuylkill Canal, which carries freight to Philadelphia, and by electric railways to several villages in Berks county. The city occupies an irregular tract of land gradually descending from the base of Mt. Penn westward to the Schuylkill river, and therefore possesses excellent drainage facilities. The river, which is unnavigable and winding at this point, forms the western boundary of the city for more than 4 m., and is spanned by three public bridges and a number of railway bridges. Neversink Mountain (878 ft. high), lying to the S. of the city, and Mt. Penn (800 ft.), are pleasure resorts in the neighbourhood. On the neighbouring mountains are several summer hotels and sanatoria. Within the city is Penn Common, containing 50 acres, reserved by the Penns for the use of the town when it was first laid out, and since 1878 used as a public park. Mineral Spring Park, containing 63 acres, lies on the outskirts of the city. Other parks are maintained by the street railway companies. In Penn Common are a monument erected to the “ First Defenders,” to commemorate the fact that the “Ringgold Light Infantry,” the first volunteer company to report at Washington for service in the Civil War, came from this city; a monument to President McKinley, and one to the volunteer fire companies of the city. Among interesting landmarks are the Federal Inn <1763), in which President Washington was entertained in 1794, and which has been used as a banking house since 1814; the old county gaol (1770), used as such until 1848; and the site of the “ Hessian Camp,” where some of the prisoners captured during the War of Independence were confined. Charitable institutions are numerous; among them are the Reading Hospital (1867), St Joseph’s Hospital (1873), Homoeopathic Hospital (i89r), the Home for Widows and Single Women (1875), the Hope Rescue Mission (1897) for homeless men, the Home for Friendless Children (1888), St Catharine’s Female Orphan Asylum (1872), St Paul’s Orphan •Asylum for Boys, and the House of the Good Shepherd (1889). Other institutions: are the public library, which from 1808 to r898 was a subscription library; the Berks County Law Library; the Berks County Historical Society; and the Harmonie Maennerchor, organized in 1847 and one of the oldest singing societies in the United States.
Lying within the rich agricultural region of the Lebanon and Schuylkill valleys and near vast fields of anthracite coal and iron ore, Reading possesses unusual business and industrial advantages. The chief . industry is the manufacture of iron and steel. There are large shops of the Philadelphia & Reading railway here. The total value of factory products in 1905 was $30,848,175 (in 1900 it had been $32,682,061), and the most important of these were the products of steel-works and rolling-mills; the products of railway repair shops; foundry and machinerShop products; hardware, hosiery and knitted goods ;« dgars and cigarettes, and felt hats. Other
important manufactures are bicycles, brick and other clay products, brooms, brushes, and cotton and woollen goods.
Reading was surveyed and laid out as a town in 1748, in accordance with the plans of Thomas and Richard Penn, sons of William Penn, and was named Reading after the county town of Berkshire, England. The first settlers were mostly. Germans, but the direction of municipal affairs until the outbreak of the War of Independence was in the hands of the English-speaking inhabitants. As the latter were largely of Loyalist sympathies during the war, the control of the local government then fell into the hands of the German inhabitants. German was long used in Reading; Pennsylvania German (or “ Dutch ”) is still spoken in the surrounding country; and several German periodicals are published in the city, including among them the weekly Adler since 1796. During the War of Independence Reading was an inland dépôt for supplies for the American army, and prisoners of war were sent here in large numbers. *The development of the town dates from the opening in 1824 of the Schuylkill Canal, from Reading to Philadelphia. This was followed in 1828 by the Union Canal, running westward to Lebanon and Middletown, and in 1838 by the entrance into Reading of the Philadelphia & Reading railway. The establishment, of these means of communication hastened the development of the natural resources of the region, and Reading early became an industrial centre. A system of water-works, established in 1821, was acquired by the municipality in 1865. Reading was incorporated as a borough in 1783, and was chartered as a city in 1847.
See M, L. Montgomery, History of Reading, Pennsylvania, and the Anniversary Proceedings of the Sesqui-Centennial (Reading, 1898).
READING BEDS, in geology, a series of marine and estuarine beds consisting of variegated plastic clays and bright-coloured sands, which form, with the Woolwich beds, a subdivision of the Lower Eocene (see Woolwich and Reading Beds).
READYMONEY, SIR COWASJI JEHANGIR (1812-1878), “ the Peabody of Bombay.” Early in the 18th century three Parsee brothers moved from Nowsari, near Surat, in Gujarat, to Bombay, and became the pioneers of a lucrative trade with China. They gained the sobriquet of “ Readymoney,” which they adopted as a surname. Only Hirji Jewanji Readymoney left issue, two daughters, the elder of whom married a Banaji, and the younger a Dady Sett. The son of the former, Jehangir Hirji, married Mirbae, the daughter of the latter, and was made the heir not only of his grandfather, but of his two granduncles. The younger of their two sons was Cowasji Jehangir. His only English education was at the then well-known school kept by Serjeant Sykes in the Fort of Bombay. At the age of 15 he entered the firm of Duncan, Gibb & Co. as “ godown keeper,” or warehouse clerk. In 1837 he was promoted to the responsible and lucrative appointment of “ guarantee broker ” to two of the leading European firms of Bombay. In 1846 he was able to begin trading on his own account. He was made a J.P. for the town and island of Bombay, and a member of the board of conservancy; and in 1866 was appointed a commissioner of income tax, Lis tactful management being largely responsible for the fact that this tax, then new to Bombay and unpopular, was levied with unexpected financial success. He was made C.S.I. in 1871; and in 1872 he was created a Knight Bachelor of the United Kingdom, and his statue, by T. Woolner, R. A., was erected in the town hall. His donations to the institutions of Bombay amounted to close on £200,000. His health broke down in 1871, and he died in 1878, being succeeded by his son, Sir J. Cowasji Jehangir [Readymoney], who was created a Knight Bachelor in 1895, and a Baronet in 1908.
See J. Cowasji Jehangir, Sir Cowasji Jehangir Readymoney (1890).
(M. M. Bh.)
REAGAN, JOHN HENNINGER (1818-^5), American politician, was born in Sevier county, Tennessee, on the 8th of October 1818. He removed to Texas in 1839, was deputy surveyor of public lands in 1839-1843, was admitted to the bar in 1846, was a member of the state House of Representatives
,η 1847-1848, served as district judge in 1852-1857, and in 1857-1861 was a representative in Congress. His political views were determined by the ultra-democratic influence of Andrew Jackson and the state-sovereignty philosophy of John C. Calhoun. In 1861 he was a member of the Texas secession convention, served in the Confederate provisional Congress, and on the 6th of March was appointed postmaster-general in President Davis's cabinet. He served in this capacity throughout the war, and for a short time before its close was also acting secretary of the treasury. He was captured with the Davis party on the 10th of May 1865, and was imprisoned in Fort Warren, Boston Harbour, until the following October. While in prison he wrote the “Fort Warren letter” (August nth), in which he urged the people of Texas to recognize their defeat, grant civil rights to the freedmen, and try to conciliate the North. From 1875 to 1887, when he entered the U.S. Senate, he was again a representative in Congress, and from 1877 almost continuously to the close of his service he was chairman of the Committee on Commerce, in which capacity he had a prominent part in securing the passage of the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887. He was a member of the state constitutional convention of 1876. In state politics his sympathies were with the Radicals. In 1891, believing that his first duty was to his state, he resigned from the Senate to accept the chairmanship of the newly established state railway commission. In 1901 he retired from public service. From 1899 until his death he was president of the Texas State Historical Association. He died at his home, near Palestine, Texas, on the 6th of March 1905.
See his Memoirs; with Special Reference to Secession and the Civil War (New York, 1906), edited by W. F. McCaleb.
REALGAR, a mineral species consisting of arsenic monosulphide (AsS) and occurring as monoclinic crystals of a bright red colour. There is a perfect cleavage parallel to the plane of symmetry (r in fig.). The lustre is resinous, and the streak has the same colour as the crystals, namely, orange-red to aurora-red. The hardness is i£-2 and the specific gravity 3-55. On exposure to light the crystals crumble to a yellow powder. The name realgar is of Arabic origin, and was used by the alchemists; the substance was known to Theophrastus under the name Σανδαράκη, and to Pliny as Sandaracha. The mineral usually occurs in association with the yellow arsenic sulphide, orpi-ment. Good crystals are found with ores of silver and lead in the mineral veins of Fels6b£nya, near Nagy-Bfinya, Kapnik-Bfinya and Nagy&g, near D6va, in Hungary; with blende in the white crystalline dolomite of the Binnenthal in Switzerland; and in a bed of sandy clay at Mercur in Utah. It is deposited by the solfataras near Naples and by the hot springs of the Yellowstone National Park. Realgar has been used as a pigment and in pyrotechny for producing a brilliant white fire; but it is now replaced by the artificially prepared compound.
The other native arsenic sulphide, AS2S3, known as orpiment (Lat. auripigmentum, meaning “golden paint”), occurs as foliated masses of a lemon-yellow colour, the foliation being parallel to a direction of perfect cleavage. It is sectile and soft (H. —1^—2), and has a specific gravity 3*4. Distinctly developed crystals are rare; they have usually been considered to be orthorhombic and isomorphous with stibnite (StfciSj), but it is probable that they are really monoclinic. Orpiment is extensively mined near Julamerk in Asiatic Turkey. (L. J. S.)
REALISM (from Low Lat. realis, appertaining to rest things, as opposed to ideas and imaginations), a philosophical term used in two opposite senses. The older of these is the scholastic doctrine, traceable back to Socrates, that universals have a more “ real ” existence than things. Universals are, in scholastic language, ante res, in rebus and post res. Behind all numerous types of chairs there is in the mind the ideal chair of which particular chairs are mere copies. In the most extreme form realism denies that anything exists in.any sense except universals. It is opposed to nominalism (g.r.) and conceptualism (g.i>.). For the history of the doctrine, see Scholasticism. Realism in this sense has been called “ an assertion of the rights of the subject ” (cf. the Protagonean maxim, “ Man is the measure of all things ”). The modem application of the term is to the opposing doctrine that there is a reality apart from its presentation to coi .sciousness. In this sense it is opposed to idealism (g.r.), whether the purely subjective or that more comprehensive idealism which makes subject and object mutually interdependent. In its crude form it is known as “ Natural ” or “ Naive ” Realism. It appears, however, in more complex forms, e.g. as Ideal Realism (or Real Idealism), which combines epistemological idealism with realism in metaphysics. Again, Kant distinguishes “ empirical ” realism, which maintains the existence of things in space independent of consciousness, from “ transcendental ” realism, which ascribes absolute reality to time and space.
In literature and art “ realism ” again is opposed to “ idealism ” in various senses. The realist is (1) he who deliberately declines to select his subjects from the beautiful or harmonious, and, more especially, describes ugly things and brings out details of an unsavoury sort; (2) he who deals with individuals, not types; (3) most properly, he who strives to represent the facts exactly as they are.
REALM, the dominions of a king, a kingdom. The O.Fr. reaume (mod. royaume) was the form first adopted in English, and the modem spelling does not appear fixed till the beginning of the 17th century. The word must be referred to a supposed Med. Lat. regalimen, from regalisf of or belonging to a rex, king.
REAL PROPERTY. The land law of England and of countries whose law is based upon that of England stands in a peculiar position, which can be understood only by an outline of its history.
History.—Such terms as “ fee ” or “ homage ” carry us back into feudal times. Rights of common and distress are based upon still older institutions, forming the very basis of primitive law. The conception of tenure is the fundamental ground of distinction between real and personal estate, the former only being strictly entitled to the name of estate (g.x>.). The division into real and personal is coincident to a great extent with that into immovable and movable, generally used by systems of law founded on the Roman (see Personal Property.) That it is not entirely coincident is due to the influence of the Roman law itself. The Greeks and the Romans of the republic were essentially nations of citizens; the Teutons were essentially a nation of land-folk; the Roman empire bridged the gulf between the two. It is probable that the English land law was produced by the action of the policy adopted in the lower empire, finally developed into feudalism, upon the previously existing course of Teutonic custom. The distinguishing features of the Teutonic system were enjoyment in common and the absence of private ownership, except to a limited extent. The principal features of the old English land law before the Conquest, from which the modern law has developed, were (1) liberty of alienation, either by will or inter vivos, of such land as could be alienated, chiefly, if not entirely, bocland, subject always to the limits fixed by the hoc; (2) publicity of transfer by enrolment in the shire-book or church-book; (3) equal partition of the estate of a deceased among the sons, and failing sons among the daughters; (4) cultivation to a great extent by persons in various degrees of serfdom, owing money or labour rents; (5) variety of custom, tending to become uniform, through the application of the same principles in the local courts; (6) subjection of land to the trinoda necessitast a burden imposed for the purpose of defence of the realm. The rudiments of the conceptions of tenure and of the crown as lord paramount were found in the old English system, and lsenland was an anticipation of the limited interests which afterwards became of such importance.@@1 The connexion of political privileges with the ownership
@@@1 The name has not remained as in Germany and Denmark. A fief is still Lehen in Germany, Lehn in Denmark.
of land is not peculiar to the pre-Conquest or any other period. It runs through the whole of English history.
The elements of feudalism so far existed in England under the Anglo-Saxon and Danish kings as to make it easy to introduce it in full at the Norman Conquest. What the Norman Conquest did was not to change all at once allodial into feudal tenure, but to complete the association of territorial with personal dependence in a state of society already prepared for it.@@1 “ Nulle terre sans seigneur '' was one of the fundamental axioms of feudalism. There might be any number of infeudations and subinfeudations to mesne lords, but the chain of seigniory was complete, depending in the last resort upon the king as lord paramount. Land was not owned by free owners owing only necessary militia duties to the state, but was held of the king by military service of a more onerous nature. The folkland became the king's land; the soldier was a landowner instead of the landowner being a soldier. Free owners tended to hecome tenants of the lord, the township to be lost in the manor.@@2 The common land became in law the waste of the manor, its enjoyment resting upon a presumed grant hy the lord. On the other hand, the whole of England did not become manorial; the conflict between the township and the manor resulted in a compromise, the result of which affects English tenure to this day. But it was a compromise much to the advantage of the privileged class, for in England more than in any other country the land law is the law of the nobility and not of the people. One reason of this is that, as England was never so completely feudalized as were some of the European continental states, the burden of feudalism was not so severely felt, and has led to less agitation for reform.
The land forfeited to the Conqueror was regranted by him to be held by military service due to the king, not to the mesne lord as in European continental feudalism. In 1086 at the council of Salisbury all the landholders swore fealty to the crown. In the full vigour of feudalism the inhabitants of England were either free or not free. The free inhabitants held their lands either by free tenure (liberum tenementumf frank tenement) or by a tenure which was originally that of a non-free inhabitant, but attached to land in the possession of a free man. Frank tenement was either military tenure, called also tenure in knight service or chivalry (including barony, the highest tenure known to the law, grand serjeanty and the special forms of escuage, castle-guard, comage and others) or socage (including burgage and petit serjeanty), or frankalmoign {libera eleemosyna) or divine service, by which ecclesiastical corporations generally held their land.@@3 The non-free inhabitants were in Domesday Book servi, cotarii or bordarii, later nalivi or viltani, the last name heing applied to both free men and serfs. All these were in a more or less dependent condition. The free tenures all exist at the present day, though, as will appear later, the military tenures have shrunk into the unimportant and exceptional tenure of grand serjeanty. The non-free tenures are to a certain extent represented by copyhold. The most important difference hetween the military and socage tenures was the mode of descent. Whether or not a feudal benefice was originally hereditary, it had certainly become so at the time of the Conquest, and it descended to the eldest son. This applied at once in England to land held by military service as far as regarded the capital fief. The descent of socage lands or lands other than the capital fief for some time followed the old pre-Conquest rule of descent. Thus in the so-called “ Laws of Henry I.” the lands other than the capital fief, and in Glanvill, who wrote in the time of Henry II., socage lands, if anciently partible {antiquitus divisum), were divided among all the sons equally. But by the time of Bracton (Henry III.) the course of descent of lands held by military service had so far
prevailed that, though it was a question of fact whether the land was partible or not, if there was no evidence either way descent to the eldest son was presumed. Relics of the old custom still remain in the case of gavelkind. The military tenant was subject to the feudal incidents, from which the tenant in socage was exempt. These incidents, especially wardship and marriage, were often oppressive.. Alienation of lands by will, except in a few favoured districts, became impossible; alienation inter vivos was restrained in one direction in the interests of the heir, in another in the interests of the lord. At the time of Glanvill a tenant had a greater power of alienation over land which he had purchased {terra acquietata) than over land which he had inherited. But hy the time of Bracton the heir had ceased to have any interest in either kind of land. The lords were more successful. It was enacted by Magna Carta that a free man should not give or sell so much of his land as to leave an amount insufficient to perform his services to his lord. In spite of this provision, the rights of the lords were continually diminished by subinfeudation until the passing of the Statute of Quia Emptores. Alienation by a tenant in chief of the crown without licence was a ground of forfeiture until 1 Edw. III. st. 2, c. 12, by which a fine was substituted. The modes of conveyance at this time were only two, feoffment with livery of seisin for corporeal hereditaments, grant for incorporeal hereditaments. Livery of seisin, though public, was not officially recorded like the old English transfer of property. The influence of local custom upon the land law must have become weakened after the circuits of the judges of the King's Court were established by Henry II. Jurisdiction over litigation touching the freehold was taken away from the lord's courts hy 15 Ric. II. c. 12.
The common law as far as it dealt with real estate had in the main assumed its present aspect by the reign of Henry III. The changes which have been made since that date have been chiefly due to the action of equity and legislation, the latter sometimes interpreted by the courts in a manner very different from the intention of parliament. The most important influence of equity has been exercised in mortgage and trusts in the doctrine of specific performance of contracts concerning real estate, and in relief from forfeiture for breach of covenant.
History of Real Estate Legislation.—The reign of Edward I. is notable for three leading statutes, all passed in the interests of the superior lords. The Statute of Mortmain (7 Edw. I. st. 2, c. 13) is the first of a long series directed against the acquisition of land by religious and charitahle corporations. The statute De Donis Conditionalibus (13 Edw. I. c. 1) forbade the alienation of estates granted to a man and the heirs of his body, which before the statute became on the hirth of an heir at once alienable (except in the case of gifts in frankmarriage), and so the lord lost his escheat. The statute Quia Emptores (18 Edw. I. c. 1) preserved those rights of the lords which were up to that time subject to be defeated by subinfeudation, by enacting that in any alienation of lands the alienee should hold them of the same lord of the fee as the alienor.@@4 Since 1290 it has been impossible to create an estate in fee-simple to be held of a mesne lord, or to reserve a rent upon a grant of an estate in fee (unless in the form of a rent-charge), or to create a new manor. The statute, however, does not bind the crown. The practical effect of the statute was to make the transfer of land thenceforward more of a commercial and less of a feudal transaction. The writ of degit was introduced by the Statute of Westminster II. in 1285 as a creditor's remedy over real estate. It has, however, been considerably modified by subsequent legislation. From 1290 to the reign of Henry VIII., there is no statute of the first importance dealing with real estate. The reign of Henry VIII., like the reign of Edward I., is signalized by three acts, the effects of which continue to this day. The one which has had the most lasting influence in law is the Statute of Uses, 27 Hen. VIII. c. 10 (see Conveyancing; Trust). The Statute of Uses was intended to provide against secrecy of sales of land, and as a necessary sequel to it an act of the same
@@@1 “ The relation of vassalage, originally personal, became annexed to the tenure of land ” (Palgrave, Rise and Progress of the English Commonwealth, vol. i. p. 505).
@@@*    It is a disputed point whether the manor organization existed before the Conquest; but its full development seems to have been later than that event.
@@@*    Frankalmoign was not always regarded as a distinct tenure. Thus Uttleton (§ 118) says that all that is not tenure in chivalry is tenure in socage.
@@@4 Tenants in chief of the crown were liable to a fine on alienation until 12 Car. II. c. 24.
year (27 Hen. VIII. c. 16) enacted that all bargains and sales of land should be duly enrolled. Bargain and sale was a form of equitable transfer which had for some purposes superseded the common law feoffment. It applied only to estates of inheritance and not to terms of years. The unforeseen effect of 27 Hen. VIII. c. 16 was to establish as the ordinary form of conveyance until 1S41 the conveyance hy lease and release.@@1 Uses having become legal estate by the Statute of Uses, and therefore no longer devisahle, 32 Hen. VIII. c. 1 (explained by 34 & 35 Hen. VIII. c. 5) was passed to remedy this inconvenience. It is still law as to wills made before 1S3S (see Will). In the reign of Elizabeth the acts of 13 Eliz. c. 5 and 27 Eliz. c. 4 avoided fraudulent conveyances as against all parties and voluntary conveyances as against subsequent purchasers for valuable consideration. Early in the reign of Charles II. the act of 1661 (12 Car. II. c. 24) turned all the feudal tenures (with the exception of frankalmoign and grand serjeanty) into tenure by free and common socage and aholished the feudal incidents. The Statute of Frauds (29 Car. II. c. 3) contained provisions that certain leases and assignments, and that all agreements and trusts relating to land, should he in writing (see Fraud). The land registries of Middlesex and Yorkshire date from the reign of Anne (see Land Registration). Devises of land for charitable purposes were forbidden by the Mortmain Act (9 Geo. II. c. 36). In the next reign the first general Inclosure Act was passed, 41 Geo. III. c. 109 (see Commons). In the reign of William IV. were passed the Prescription, Limitation and Tithe Commutation Acts; fines and recoveries were abolished and simpler modes of conveyance substituted by 3 & 4 Will. IV. c. 74; and the law's of inheritance and dower were amended by 3 & 4 Will. IV. cc. 105, 106. In the reign of Victoria there was a vast mass of legislation dealing with real estate in almost every conceivable aspect. At the immediate beginning of the reign stands the Wills Act. The transfer of real estate was simplified by 8 & 9 Viet. c. 106 and by the Conveyancing Acts of 1881 and 1882. Additional powers of dealing with settled estates were given by the Settled Estates Act 1856, later by the Settled Estates Act 1877, and the Settled Land Act 1882. Succession duty was levied for the first time on freeholds in 1853. The strictness of the Mortmain Act has been relaxed in favour of gifts and sales to public institutions of various kinds, such as schools, parks and museums. The period of limitation was shortened for most purposes from twenty to twelve years hy the Real Property Limitation Act 1874. Several acts were passed dealing with the enfranchisement and commutation of copyholds and the preservation of commons and open spaces. The Naturalization Act 1870 enabled aliens to hold and transfer land in England. The Felony Act 1870, abolished forfeiture of real estate on conviction for felony. The Agricultural Holdings Acts 1883 and 1900, and other acts, gave the tenant of a tenancy within the acts a general right to compensation for improvements, substituted a year’s notice to quit for the six months’ notice previously necessary, enlarged the tenant’s right to fixtures, and limited the amount of distress. By the Intestate Estates Act 1884 the law of escheat was extended to incorporeal hereditaments and equitable estates. Among other subjects which have been dealt with by legislation in the 19th century may be mentioned land transfer, registration, mortgage, partition, excambion, fixtures, taking of land in execution, declaration of title and apportionment. Hardly a year passes in which the land law is not altered to a greater or less degree.
Real estate at the present day is cither legal or equitable, a difference resting mainly upon historical grounds. The following observations apply in general to both kinds of estate. The usual classification of interests in real estate regards either the extent, the time or the mode of enjoyment. The division according to the extent is in the first instance into corporeal and incorporeal hereditaments, a division based upon the Roman law division of res into corporales and incorporates, and open to the same objection,
@@@ From the reign of Edward IV. at latest up to the Fines and
Recoveries Act 01 1833 fines and recoveries were also recognized as that it is unscientific as co-ordinating subjects of rights with the rights themselves.@@* Corporeal hereditaments, says Blackstone, “ consist of such as affect the senses, such as may be seen and handled by the body; incorporeal are not the objects of sensation, can neither be seen nor handled, are creatures of the mind, and exist only in contemplation.” Corporeal hereditaments are all necessarily freehold;@@* an interest in land less than freehold, such as a term of years, is personalty only. There was no room for such an interest in the feudal gradation of tenure; it was regarded as » mere personal contract and was incapable of the incidents of tenure. By the Conveyancing Act 1881 the residue of a long term of years could in^ certain cases be enlarged into the fee-simple. A copyhold is in strict law only a tenancy at the will of the lord. Estates ot freehold are either estates for life or in fee (called also estates of inheritance), the latter being in fee-tail or in fee-simple. · An estate for life may be either for the life of the tenant or for the life of another person, the latter called an estate pur autre vie. The former kind of estate includes estates of dower and curtesy. An estate in fee is called a fee simply, an obvious sign of its feudal origin. Estates tail are either general or special, the latter beiny in tail male or (rarely) in tail female. There may also be a quasi-entail of an estate pur autre vie. An estate in fee-simple is th? largest estate known to English law. Its ordinary incidents^ are an oath of fealty (never exacted), escheat, and (in a manor) suit ol the court baron, and occasionally a small quit-rent and relief. All these are obviously relics of the once important feudal incidents. Incorporeal hereditaments consist chiefly, if not wholly, of right* in alienosolo. They are divided by Joshua Williams (Real Property, pt. ii.) into (1) reversions, remainders and executory interests, (2) hereditaments purely incorporeal, the last being either appendant, appurtenant or in gross. Examples are profits a prendre (such as rights of common), easements (such as rights of way),@@4 seigniories, advowsons, rents, tithes, titles of honour, offices, franchises. Before 1845 corporeal hereditaments were said to lie in livery, incorporeal in grant. But by the Real Property Act 1845 all corporeal hereditaments are, as regards the conveyance 01 the immediate freehold thereof, to be deemed to lie in grant as w'ell as in liyery. With regard to the time of enjoyment, estates are either in possession or in expectancy—that is, in reversion or remainder or executory interests (see Remainder). With regard to the mode of enjoyment, estates are either joint, in common, in coparcenary or in severalty.
a means of conveyance. They are so regarded in the Statute of
Uses.
Exceptional Tenures.—It has been already stated that there are still to be found survivals of the old pre-Conquest customary law. They are found both in the tenure and in the conveyance of land. The only customs of which judicial notice is taken are gavelkind (g.r.) and borough-English (g.v.). Any other local customs, as in manors, must be proved by evidence. The tenures of frankalmoign and grand serjeanty were specially preserved by 12 Car. II. c. 24.
Title.—This is the name given to the mode of acquisition of rights over real estate. Title may arise either by alienation, voluntary or involuntary, or by succession. Voluntary alienation is either inter vivos or by will. The former branch is practically synonymous with conveyance, whether by way of sale, settlement, mortgage or otherwise. As a general rule alienation of real estate inter vivos must be by deed since 8 & 9 Viet. c. 106. Since that act a deed of grant has superseded the old forms of feoffment and lease and release. ^ Considerable alterations in the direction of shortness and simplicity have been made in the law of transfer of real estate by the Conveyancing Acts 1881, 1882 and the Land Transfer Acts 1875 and 1897. The word “ grant ” is no longer necessary for a conveyance, nor are the old words of limitation “ heirs ,r and “ heirs of the bod};.” It is sufficient to use the words 11 in fee-simple,” " in tail,” “ in tail male,” “ in tail female.” Many provisions usually inserted in deeds, such as covenants for title by a beneficial owner and powers of appointment of new trustees, obtain statutory sanction. Forms of mortgage, conveyance and settlement are appended to the act. The Solicitors’ Remuneration Act 1881 was passed as a necessajy sequel to the Conveyancing Act, and the remuneration of solicitors now stands upon a different and more satisfactory basis. For acquisition by will and succession, see Will; Inheritance. Involuntary alienation is by bankruptcy (g.r.) and by other means of enforcing the rights of creditors over land, such as distress or execution. It may also arise by the exercise by the state of its right of eminent domain for public purposes, as under the Lands Clauses and other acts,@@6
@@@    In spite of this objection the division is adopted by the legislature; see, for instance, the Intestate Estates Act 1884.
@@@    In the category of corporeal hereditaments are also included certain accessories to corporeal hereditaments proper, such as growing crops, fixtures, title-deeds, &c.
@@@    It should be noticed that an easement in gross cannot exist.
@@@6 The right of the state to contribution from land for revenue purposes and to stamp duties on deeds perhaps falls under this head. These imposts are really involuntary alienations of part of the profit of the land.
Restraints on Alienation.—The alienation of real estate_ may be subject to almost any conditions, provided that such conditions do not contravene the law. As a general rule there can be no restrictions upon the alienation of an estate in fee-simple; the two ideas are incompatible. In the case, however, of a married woman a restraint on anticipation is allowed within certain limits (see Restraint). In another direction the imposition of a course of devolution upon property is forbidden by the law against perpetuities (see Perpetuity), while the accumulation of income is also forbidden with a few exceptions. Certain persons are by the general policy of the law disabled from exercising full proprietary rights, such as convicts, infants and lunatics.
Procedure.—In some cases rights attaching to real estate are protected by peculiar remedies. At an early period it became more convenient to try the right to the possession of, rather than the right to the property in, real estate. Possessory tended to supersede proprietary remedies, from their great simplicity and elasticity. The general mode of trying the right to both property and possession was from the time of Henry II. the real action, tfie form called 11 writ of right ” (after Magna Carta gradually confined to the court of common pleas) being used to determine the property, that called 44 assise of novel disseisin ” being the general means by which the possession was tried. About the reign of Elizabeth the action of ejectment became the ordinary form of possessory remedy. Real actions existed until the Real Property Limitation Act 1833, by which they were finally abolished, with the exception of writ of right of dower, writ of dower unde nihil kabet, quare impedit and ejectment. Of these quare impedit (g.v.) appears to be the only one now in use. The assise of novel disseisin, the action of ejectment in both its original and its reformed stage, and finally the action for the recovery of land in use since the Judicature Acts are all historically connected as gradual developments of the possessory action. There are certain matters affecting real estate over which the court of chancery formerly had exclusive jurisdiction, in most cases because the principles on which the court acted had been the creation of equity. The Judicature Act 1873 assigned to the chancery division of the high court of justice all causes and matters for {inter alia) the redemption or foreclosure of mortgages, the raising of portions or other charges on land, the sale and distribution al the proceeds of property subject to any lien or charge, the specific performance of contracts between vendors and purchasers of real estates, including contracts for leases, the partition or sale of real estates, and the wardship of infants and the care of infants* estates. In the case of rent a summary mode of remedy by act of the creditor still exists (see Distress, Rent).
Ireland.—The law of real estate in Ireland is the English law, which finally superseded the native law in^ James I.*s reign, as modified by subsequent legislation. The main difference is in the law of landlord and tenant, modified by the various land acts (see Ireland) and the operation of the Irish Land Commission.
United States.—The law of real estate in the United States is the law of England modified to suit a different state of circumstances. The main point of difference is that in the United States the occupiers of land are generally wholly or in part owners, not tenants, as in England. This is to a great extent the effect of the homestead laws (see Homestead and Exemption Laws). The traces of the feudal origin of the law are, as might be expected, considerably less prominent than in England. Thus estates tail are practically obsolete; in some states they are specially forbidden by the state constitutions. The law of descent is the same in real and personal estate. Manors do not exist, except in the state of New York, where they were created by the crown in colonial days (Bouvier, Law Diet., 14 Manor ”). Registration of deeds is general. In some states forms of deed,are prescribed by statute. Conveyancing is for the most part simpler than in England. The holding of real estate by religious or charitable corporations is generally restricted by the act creating them rather than by anything like the English law of mortmain. Perpetuities are forbidden in most states. The right of eminent domain is at once acknowledged and limited by the Constitution of the United States. By art. 5 of the Amendments private property is not to be taken for public use without just compensation. A similar provision is found in many of the state constitutions. By an Act of Congress of 9th April 1866, c. 31, all citizens of the United States have the same right in every state and Territory as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold and convey real and personal property. In most states aliens may hold land ; but in some states they cannot do so without becoming naturalized or at least filing in the specified manner a declaration of intention to become naturalized.
^ International Law.—The law of the place where real estate is situated {lex loci ret sitae) governs its tenure and transfer. The laws of England and of the United States are more strict on this point than the laws of most other countries. They require that the formalities of the locus ret sitae must be observed, even if not necessary to be observed in the place where the contract was made. The lex loci ret sitae determines what is to be considered real estate. A foreign court cannot as a general rule pass title to land situated in another country. The English and United States courts of eguity have to a certain extent avoided the inconvenience which this inability to deal with land out of the jurisdiction sometimes causes by the use of the theory that equity acts upon the conscience of the party and not upon the title to the foreign land. Thus in the leading case of Penn. v. Lord Baltimore in 1750 (1 Vesey, 444) the court of chancery on this ground decreed specific performance of articles for settling the boundaries of the provinces of Pennsylvania and Maryland. The difficulty always arises that, although the court professes to act upon the conscience, it must indirectly act upon the property, and that it cannot carry its decision into execution without the aid of the local tribunals.
REAM (either through Du. riem, or O.Fr. ray me, reyme, mod. rame, Med. Lat. risma, from Arabic rizmah, bale or bundle), a certain quantity of paper, viz.' 20 quires containing 24 sheets each or 480 sheets; a “ printer’s ream ” contains 21 \ quires or 516 sheets. The word owes its introduction into Europe to the Moors, who were the originators of the paper manufactured in Spain. Its original meaning was simply bundle, applied either to paper or clothes.
REAPING (from O.E. ripan, rypan, probably allied to “ ripe,” mature, i.e. “ fit for reaping the cognate forms are found in other languages), the action of cutting ripe grain crops. Till the invention of the reaping machine, which came into practical use only about the middle of the 19th century, sickles and scythes were the sole reaping implements. Of the two the sickle is the more ancient, and indeed there is some reason to conclude that its use is coeval with the cultivation of grain crops. Among the remains of the later Stone period in Great Britain and on the European continent curved flint knives have occasionally been found, the form of which has led to the suggestion that they were used as sickles. Sickles of bronze occur quite commonly among remains of the early inhabitants of Europe. Some of these are deeply curved hooks, flat on the under side, and with a strengthening ridge or back on the upper surface, while others are small curved knives, in form like the ordinary hedge-bill. Among the ancient Egyptians toothed or serrated sickles of both bronze and iron were used. Ancient Roman drawings show that both the scythe and the sickle were known to that people, and Pliny makes the distinction plain.@@1 Although both implements have lost much of their importance since the general introduction of mowing and reaping machinery, they are still used very extensively, especially in those countries like France where small agricultural holdings prevail. The principal modern forms are the toothed hook, the scythe hook, the Hainault scythe and the common scythe.
The toothed hook, which was in general use till towards the middle of the 19th century, consisted of a narrow-bladed curved hook, having on its cutting edge a series of fine close-set serratures cut like file-teeth, with their edges inclined towards the heft or handle. The curve is that known to mathematicians as the " cissoid,” where tangents at any point form equal angles with lines drawn to the middle of the handle: it has been called the “ curve of least exertion ” because experience has shown that it tires out the arm of the worker less than any other curve. Sickles were formerly made of iron edged with steel; but in recent times they came to be made of cast steel entirely. Towards the middle of the 19th century the toothed hook was gradually supplanted by the scythe hook or smooth-edged sickle, a somewhat heavier and broader-bladed implement, having an ordinary knife edge. Both these implements were intended for “ shearing * handful by handful, the crop being held in the left hand and cut with the tool held in the right. A heavy smooth-edged sickle is used for " bagging ” or “ clouting,” —an operation in which the hook is struck against the straw, the left hand being used to gather and carry along the cut swath. The Hainault scythe is an implement intermediate between the scythe and the sickle, being worked with one hand, and the motion is entirely a swinging or bagging one. The implement consists of a short scythe blade mounted on a vertical handle, and in using it the reaper collects the grain with a crook, which holds the straw together till it receives the^ cutting stroke of the instrument. The Hainault scythe was extensively used in Belgium. The common hay scythe consists of a slightly curved broad blade varying in length from 28 to 46 in., mounted on a bent, or sometimes straight, wooden sned or snathe, to which two handles are attached at such distances
@@@1 “ Of the sickle there are two varieties, the Italian, which is the shorter and can be handled among brushwood, and the two-handed Gallic sickle, which makes quicker work of it when employed on their [the Gauls’] extensive domains; for there they cut their grass only in the middle, and pass over the shorter blades. The Italian mowers cut with the right hand only ” (H. N. xviii. 67),
as enable the workman, with an easy stoop, to swing the scythe blade along the ground, the cutting edge being slightly elevated to keep it clear of the inequalities of the surface. The grain-reaping scythe is similar, but provided with a cradle or short gathering rake attached to the heel and following the direction of the blade for about 12 in. The object of this attachment is to gather the stalks as they are cut and lay them in regular swaths against the line of still-standing corn. The reaping scythe, instead of a long sned, has frequently two helves, the right hand branching from the left or main helve and the two handles placed about 2 ft. apart. The best scythe blades are made from rolled sheets of steel, riveted to a back frame of iron, which gives strength and rigidity to the blade. On the continent of Europe it is still common to mould and hammer the whole blade out of a single piece of steel, but such scythes are difficult to keep keen of edge. There is a great demand for scythes in Russia, chiefly supplied from the German empire and Austria. The principal manufacturing centre of scythes and sickles in the United Kingdom is Sheffield.
It was not until the beginning of the 19th century that any attempt was made to invent a reaping machine on anything like the lines that have been adopted since. In 1826 the Rev. Patrick Bell of Carmylie in Fifeshirc brought out the first successful machine. He had worked at the making of it when a young man on his father’s farm, and the principle he adopted, that of a series of scissors fastened on the “ knife-board,” was followed for a long time. There had been many trials during the thirty or forty years before his time both in this country and in America, but his invention was the first practical success.
After many modifications, however, the present or recent form of the common reaper was evolved by C. H. McCormick in America in 1831. A truck or carriage is carried on two travelling wheels some 30 to 36 in. high, with spuds or teeth on the circumference to make them “ bite ” the ground and thus give motion to the machinery without skidding; two horses are yoked in front with a pole between, with martingale and surcingle belts as part of their harness, to ease the backing of the machine by the horses; the knife-board is fixed out at right angles to the side of the carriage and in front, while the knives consist of a series of triangular “ sections ” on a bar which travels backwards and forwards in slots in the “ fingers,” as the dividing teeth are called. The motion was given to the knives by a connecting rod and crank driven by suitable gearing from the truck wheels. The cutting was thus done by a straight shearing action and not by clipping like scissors as in Bell’s machine.
There were many modifications tried before the favourite form was ultimately adopted: thus the horses were yoked behind the truck or carriage of the machine so that they pushed it before them; a revolving web of cloth was placed behind the knives so as to deliver the cut corn in a continuous swathe at the side; revolving “ sails ” or “ rakes ” pushed the standing grain against the knives as the machine advanced—some of which arrangements have been revived in our modem string-binders—and so on.
In the early days—from about i860 to 1870—machines were fitted with a tilting board behind the cutting bar which caught the com as it fell, and it was held there until enough for a sheaf was gathered, when the load was “ tilted ” off by a suitable rake handled by a man who sat and worked the tilting board simultaneously with his foot and dropped the com, to be lifted and tied into a sheaf by hand afterwards. The same machine was generally used for mowing (grass) by an interchange of parts, and the “ combined ” reaper and mower was in common use in the ’seventies and ’eighties. Later, various devices were adopted to do the tilting or sheafing mechanically, and the self end-delivery and self side-delivery have long been in use whereby through the adoption of revolving rakes on frames the sheaf-lots are delivered in sizes ready for tying up by hand. The subsequent tying or binding was done variously in different parts of the country. In the south of England it was customary for five men to make bands, lift the sheaf-lot, place in the band and tic, and leave the sheaf lying on the ground to be set up afterwards, the gang of five being expected to keep up on a reaper cutting round the four sides of a field. In the north and in Scotland the cutting was only done on one side at a time, the machine riding back empty, and three boys made the bands (“ straps ”), three women lifted the lots and laid them on the bands, and three men bound the sheaves and set up in stooks. Thus three gangs of three each were required to keep a machine going, and only about five acres per day could be reaped in this way.
The development of the modern binder to reduce all this labour has been a very gradual process. There was no great difficulty in cutting the corn and delivering the stuff, but the tying of it into sheaves was the problem to be solved. As early as 1858 Marsh in America designed and carried out an arrangement whereby the cut grain crop was caught on revolving webs of canvas and carried up on to a table, where two men stood who made bands of its own material and bound it into sheaves as it fell in front of them, dropping the sheaves off on to* the ground as made, while the machine travelled along. The invention of a tying apparatus was the next advance, and in the ’seventies the American firm of Walter A. Wood & Co. brought out an arrangement for tying the sheaves up with wire. So slow and expensive had been the process of evolution, however, that it was reported at the time that the above firm had spent £20,000 in invention and experiment before they had even a wire-binder fit to put on the market.
Binding with string, however, was the aim of all, and it was reserved for J. F. Appleby, an English inventor, to hit on the arrangement now in use, or whiqh was the prototype of all the knot-ters now to be met with in different varieties of the string-binder throughout the world.
While, the string-binder is now in universal use in Great Britain, the British Colonies, America and all countries where farming and farm work are advanced, and hand labour is only followed where peasant-farming or small farming obtains, it must be noted that in certain regions the system of reaping or harvesting of corn crops has developed a good deal beyond this. In Australia and some of the hotter districts in the west of the United States the “ stripper ” is in use, an implement which carries long grooved teeth which are passed through the standing grain crop and strip off the heads, leaving the straw standing. The heads are passed backwards to a thrashing (rubbing) arrangement, which separates the com from the chobs, chaff, &c., and the grain is sacked up straight away. The sacks are dropped off the machine as the work proceeds and are picked up by wagon for transport afterwards. It is a significant fact that strippers worked by hand, though e pushed through the crop by oxen, were in use on the plains of Gaul in the first
century of our era, though this system seems to have been lost sight of till re-invented by the Australians.
Again, in the Western states of America, where the climate is not hot and dry enough for stripping purposes, the method followed is to cut the straw as short as possible—just below the heads—and these fall on to a travelling canvas and are carried up into a thrasher and the grain separated and sacked as the work proceeds. An immense combined implement is used for this reaping and thrashing purpose, taking a width of up to 40 ft. of crop at a time, and being propelled by a 50-horse-power traction engine running on broad roller-wheels, though smaller machines pulled by, say, 20 horses are also common. Sometimes the “ heading ” only is carried out, and the cut heads carried on a canvas up into a wagon travelled alongside, and then carted away for subsequent thrashing, the “ header ” thus being the form of reaper adopted also in the Western states of America. In these regions, as in many other places on the prairies in general, the straw is of no value, and therefore the whole is set fire to and burned off, thus returning a certain amount of fertility to the soil in the ashes.
In the normal and ordinary system of reaping with the string-binder in Great Britain the rule is to “ open up ” a field by cutting “ roads ” round it: that is, a headland or roadway is mowed by the scythe and tied up by hand. Then the string-binder is started to cut around and continued till a finish is made at the centre of the field. Sometimes the crop is partly lodged and can only be cut on three sides of the field, and the binder is “ slipped ” past the fourth side. It is customary in some parts to yoke three horses to the machine and keep these at work all day with an interval for the midday meal only, but a better plan is to allow two men and four horses to each, and put one couple on and one couple off for meals and resting alternately. By this means the binder is kept going continuously without any stoppage for perhaps 14 hours daily in fine harvest weather. With a six-feet cutting width an acre per hour is fair work, but some have exceeded that, especially with wider cutting widths. A ball of twine weighing 3 to 4 lb is the usual requisite per acre for binding the sheaves, and it ought to be of Manilla hemp: “ sizal ” fibre (derived from the American agaves and named after the port on the coast of Yucatan) is not so strong and good, though cheaper. Good twine is desirable, as otherwise frequent breakages leave many sheaves in a loose state.
The sheaves are dropped off on to the ground as tied, but some farmers use the “ sheaf-carrier,” which catches these as they are shot out from the binding apparatus, and dumps them in lots of six or so—sufficient to make a stook or shock. The stooking—that is, the setting up of the sheaves on end to dry— is a separate operation, and from two to three men can set up an ordinary good crop as fast as the binder can cut it. In this work the sheaves are set with their butts wide apart and the heads leaning against one another like the two legs of the letter A: a full-sized stook or “ threave ” is 24 sheaves—a relic of the days when the crop was all hand-reaped by piecework at so much per threave—but in practice now seldom more than 6 sheaves (3 each side) are put to each stook. When sufficiently dried or “ fielded ” the sheaves are then carried by cart or wagon to the stackyard, where they are built up sheaf by sheaf into round or oblong stacks: that is, they are stored until required for thrashing or foddering purposes. The drying may be a tedious affair, and wet weather in harvest time is a national disaster from the spoiling of the corn, both grain and straw.
The tremendous development in labour-saving in the matter of reaping the corn crops is well exemplified in a comparison of harvesting with the hand hook or sickle as compared with the string-binder. ^ With hand-reaping six men (or women) cut the corn and laid it on the bands in sheaf-lots: one man came behind and tied the sheaves and set them up in stooks. Thus a gang of seven worked together and harvested about two acres per day. With the binder three or four men handle say twelve or fourteen acres daily: in other words, there is only one-tenth of the manual labour required now in reaping that was necessary only a generation ago, for the string-binder has revolutionized farming as a whole, and given the nations cheap bread.    (P. McC.)
REAR, the back or hind portion of anything, particularly a military or naval term for that part of a force which is placed last in order, in opposition to “ van.” As the last word, shortened from “ van-guard,” is an aphetic form of Fr. avant, in front, Lat. ab ante, so “ rear ” is an aphctic form of “ arrear,” O. Fr. arere, mod. arrière, Med. Lat. ad retro, to the back, backward. From this word must be distinguished the verb “ to rear,” used in two main senses: of a horse, to stand up on its hind legs, and to raise up or lift, of the construction of a building or of the breeding and bringing to maturity of domestic or other animals, often used also of young children. The O.E. r<rran, of which it is the modem representative, is a doublet of the Scandinavian rets a, which has given English “ raise,” both being causative verb forms of “ rise.”
REAR VAULT (Fr. arriere voussure), the term in architecture employed for the vault of the internal hood of a doorway or window to which a splay has been given on the reveal; sometimes the vaulting surface is terminated by a small rih known as the scoinson rib (q.v.), and a further development is given by angle shafts carrying this rib, known as scoinson shafts.
REASON (Lat. ratio, through French raison), in philosophy, the faculty or process of drawing logical inferences. Thus we speak of man as essentially a rational animal, it being implied that man differs from all other animals in that he can consciously draw inferences from premises. It is, however, exceedingly difficult in this respect to draw an absolute distinction between men and animals, observation of which undoubtedly suggests that the latter have a certain power of making inferences. Between the higher animals and the lower types of mankind the distinction is so hard to draw that many psychologists argue that the difference is one of degree rather than of kind (see also Instinct). There can be little doubt, however, that inference by man differs from that of the brute creation in respect of self-consciousness, and, though there can be no doubt that some animals dream, it is difficult to find evidence for the presence of ideal images in the minds of
any but the highest animals. In the nature of the case satisfactory conclusions as to the rationality which may be predicated of animals are impossible.
The term “ reason ” is also used in several narrower senses. Thus reason is opposed to sensation, perception, feeling, desire, as the faculty (the existence of which is denied by empiricists) by which fundamental truths are intuitively apprehended. These fundamental truths are the causes or “ reasons ’* (άρχαί) of all derivative facts. With Kant, reason (Vernunst) is the power of synthesizing into unity, by means of comprehensive principles, the concepts provided by the intellect (Vcrstand). The reason which gives a priori principles Kant calls “ Pure Reason ” (cf. the Kritik der rcinen Vernunst), as distinguished from the “ Practical Reason ** (praktische Vernunst) which is specially concerned with the performance of particular actions. In formal logic the drawing of inferences (frequently called “ ratiocination,” from Lat. ratiocinari, to use the reasoning faculty) is classified from Aristotle downwards as deductive (from generals to particulars) and inductive (from particulars to generals); see Logic, Induction, Syllogism. In theology, reason, as distinguished from faith, is the human intelligence exercised upon religious truth whether by way of discovery or by way of explanation. The limits within which the reason may be used have been laid down differently in different churches and periods of thought: on the whole, modern Christianity, especially in the Protestant churches, tends to allow to reason a wide field, reserving, however, as the sphere of faith the ultimate (supernatural) truths of theology.
The Greek words for reason are vovs and λόγο?, both vaguely used. In Aristotle the λόγο? of a thing is its definition, including its formal cause, while the ultimate principles of a science are άρχαί, the “ reasons ” (in a common modem sense) which explain all its particular facts.@@1 NoD? in Plato and Aristotle is used both widely for all the meanings which “ reason ” can have, and strictly for the faculty which apprehends intuitively. Thus, in the Republic, vovs is the faculty which apprehends necessary truth, while δόξα (opinion) is concerned with phenomena.
For the Stoic and Neoplatonic uses of Αάγο?, as also for those of Philo Judaeus and the Fathers, see Logos.
REAUMUR, RENE ANTOINE FERCHAULT DE (1683-1757),
French man of science, was born on the 28th of February 1683 at La Rochelle and received his early education there. He was taught philosophy in the Jesuits' college at Poitiers, and in 1699 went to Bourges to study civil law and mathematics under the charge of an uncle, canon of La Sainte-Chapelle. In 1703 he came to Paris, where he continued the study of mathematics and physics, and in 1708, at the early age of twenty-four, was elected a member of the AcadSmie des Sciences. From this time onwards for nearly half a century hardly a year passed in which the Mimoires de VAcadimie did not contain at least one paper by Reaumur. At first his attention was occupied by mathematical studies, especially in geometry. In 1710 he was appointed to the charge of a great government work—the official description of the useful arts and manufactures—which led him to many practical researches that resulted in the establishment of manufactures new to France and the revival of neglected industries. For discoveries regarding iron and steel he was awarded a pension of 12,000 livres; but, being content with his ample private income, he requested that the money should be secured to the Acad6mie des Sciences for the furtherance of experiments on improved industrial processes. In 1731 he became interested in meteorology, and invented the thermometer scale which bears his name. In 1735 family arrangements obliged him to aocept the post of commander and intendant of the royal and military order of Saint-Louis; he discharged his duties with scrupulous attention, but declined the emoluments. He took great delight in the systematic study of natural history. His friends often called him the
@@@1 The Schoolmen’s distinction of ratio cognoscendi (a reason for acknowledging a fact) and ratio essendi (a reason for the existence of this fact).
Pliny of the 18th century. He loved retirement and lived much at his country residences, at one of which, La Bermon-diere (Maine), he met with a fall from horseback, the effects of which proved fatal on the 17th of October 1757. He bequeathed his manuscripts, which filled 138 portfolios, and his natural history collections to the Academic des Sciences.
Reaumur*s scientific papers deal with nearly all branches of science; his first, in 1708, was on a general problem in geometry; his last, in 1756, on the forms of birds* nests. He proved experimentally the fact that the strength of a rope is less than the sum of the strengths of its separate strands. He examined and reported on the auriferous rivers, the turquoise mines, the forests and the fossil beds of France. He devised the method of tinning iron that is still employed, and investigated the differences between iron and steel, correctly showing that the amount of carbon (sulphur in the language of the old chemistry) is greatest in cast iron, less in steel, and least in wrought iron. His book on this subject (1722) was translated into English and German. The thermometer by which he is now best remembered was constructed on the principle of taking the freezing-point of water as o°, and graduating the tube into degrees each of which was one-thousandth of the volume contained by the bulb and tube up to the zero mark. It was an accident dependent on the dilatability of the particular quality of alcohol employed which made the boiling-point of water 8o°; and mercurial thermometers the stems of which are graduated into eighty equal parts between the freezing- and boiling-points of water are not R6aumur thermometers in anything but name.
Reaumur wrote much on natural history. Early in life he described the locomotor system of the Echinodermata, and showed that the supposed vulgar error of Crustaceans replacing their lost limbs was an actual fact. In 1710 he wrote a paper on the possibility of spiders being used to produce silk, which was so celebrated at the time that the Chinese emperor Kang-he caused a translation of it to be made. He treated also of botanical and agricultural matters, and devised processes for preserving birds and eggs. He elaborated a system of artificial incubation, and made important observations on the digestion of carnivorous and graminivorous birds. _ His greatest work is the Memoires pour servir d Vhistoire des insectes, 6 vols., with 267 plates (Amsterdam, 1734-42). It describes the appearance, habits and locality of all the known insects except the beetles, and is a marvel of patient and accurate observation. Among other important facts stated in this work are the experiments which enabled R£aumur to prove the correctness of PeyssoneTs hypothesis, that corals are animals and not plants.
REBAB, or Rabab (Persian rubdb;@@* Arabic rabdb, rabdba;@@z Sp. ravi, rabe@@* rabcl, arrabd} arrabil;@@* Fr. rubbbe\ It. rubeba), an ancient stringed instrument, having a body either pear-shaped or boat-shaped and the characteristics of vaulted back and the absence of neck; also a generic modem Arabic term applied by the Mahommedans of northern Africa to various stringed instruments played with a bow.
As the rebab exercised a very considerable influence on the history of stringed instruments in Europe, and was undoubtedly the means through which the bow was introduced to the West, it is necessary to examine its construction before deciding whether it may be accepted as the ancestor of the violin in deference to the claim made for it by certain modern writers.@@*
@@@F. Ruckert, Grammatik, Poetik und Rhetorik der Persert nach dem yt4n Bande des Ilestes Kolzum (Gotha, 1874), Ρ· 8°· This translation of the introduction to the Seven Seas contains a reference to musical instruments; the one translated haute (lute) is rendered in Persian rubdb, a point ascertained through the courteous assistance of Mr A. G. Ellis, of the Oriental Department, British Museum.
@@@    Al-Farabi, 10th century, translation into Latin by J. G. Kose-garten, Alii Istoahenensis Liber. Cantilcnarum . . . arabice editur adjectaque translatione adnotationibusque (Greifswald, 1840), vol. i. pp. 36, 41, 105, 109, &c.
@@@4 See poem by Juan Ruiz, archipreste de Hita, 14th century, from MS. in library of the cathedral at Toledo, quoted by Mariano Soriano Fuertes, Hist. de la Musica espaHola (Madrid), vol. i. p. 105.
@@@From the Arabic treatise of Mahamud lbrain Axalchi, MS. No. 69, Escorial.
@@@See F. J. Fetis, Antoine Stradivari . . . Prtctdk de recherehes historiques el critiques sur Vorigine et les transformations des instru·
The two principal forms of rebab with which we are concerned as prototypes of European instruments of the middle ages are: (i) the long and narrow boat-shaped rebab, which may be traced back to Persia in the 8th century b.c.( and is still in use in that country; and (2) the lute-shaped rebab, with rudimentary neck consisting of the gradual narrowing of the body, which has the outline of a longitudinal section of a pear. This variety became very popular in medieval Europe under the names of rebec, gigue, geige and lyra; the archetype has been traced back to 1000 b.c. The most characteristic feature in the construction of the rebab, and of all instruments derived from it, was the body, composed of a back originally scooped out of a solid piece of wood, to which was glued without the intermediary of ribs (an important structural feature of the violin) a flat sound-board of parchment or thin wood.
The rebab-esh-sha'er, or “ poet's rebab,’* had a body consisting of an almost rectangular box covered with parchment and supported on an iron foot; the instrument was held like the modern violoncello. No evidence has yet been brought forward that the rebab-esh-sha'er was in use among the Arabs who conquered Spain in the 8th century; if the instrument was indeed ever introduced into Spain it has left no trace.
The bowed instruments of the middle ages fall naturally into two distinct classes, according to the principles observed in construction. One is the type* having a body formed on the model of a Greek or a Roman cithara, from which it was evolved by the addition of a neck and finger-board (see Guitar and Guitar-Fiddle). Instruments of this type were at all times recognized as superior and belonging to the realm of art, whereas type 2, derived from the Eastern rebab, never attained to any artistic development, and at the time when the first type had nearly reached its apogee the second was placed beyond the pale of art.
According to Al-Farabi, the rebab had either one string, two strings or four, obtained by doubling these two; they were tuned most often in minor thirds or in major thirds.@@1 The Arab scholar Ash-Shakandi, who flourished in Spain about a.d. 1200, states that the rebab had been known for centuries in Spain, but was not mentioned on account of its^ want of artistic merit. Juan Ruiz, archipreste de Hita, in his enumeration@@* of the musical instruments in use in his day (14th century), mentions two rebabs, and speaks of il rave gritador con su alia noia and il rabS morisco; the 11 shrill rebab ” (or rather rebec) “ with its high note ” is thus quoted somewhat contemptuously already in the 14th century.
The history of the origin of the rebab had until now not gone back beyond the 7th century a.d., and has been a matter of conjecture founded on the word rubdb or rubab, which is of Persian origin, and on the statement that the Arabs themselves declare they obtained the instrument from the Persians. Recent archaeological discoveries, however, provide abundant evidence of archetypes of both pear-shaped and boat-shaped rebabs in high antiquity. We have at present no clue to the name of the archetype, but it is clear that the el-Oud or lute of the Arabs and the wide pear-shaped rebab were practically one and the same instrument, until the advent of the bow, w hich had probably also been made known to the Arabs through the Persians, since their word for the bow, kamdn, is borrowed from the Persian, but at what date is unknown. Al-Farabi does.not mention the bow,@@* and his chapter on the rabdba does not deal with the construction of the instrument so much as with the production of sound and the divisions of the scale.
As far as is known at present, the archetype of the rebab and lute family is the instrument shown in fig. 1. The terra-cotta figure of the musician discovered in Egypt (1905-6) by Professor Flinders Petrie during the course of excavations in the cemetery of Goshen@@4 is Greek work of the post-Mycenaean age; it was
found in surroundings assigned to the XXth Dynasty (c.' iooo’b^c.), and shows the earliest pear-shaped instrument yet discovered. This statuette clearly establishes the origin of the instruments named by some lyra@@* by others (including the present writer) rebab or rebec, common all over western Europe from the nth century, whose main characteristic is an almost entire absence of neck. Two terra-cotta statuettes of musicians playing upon ancient Persian rebabs (see fig. 2) have been excavated from the
Tell at Suza@@* amongst objects referred to the reign of Shutruk-Nakhounta, who was king of Elam c. 789 b.c. The pear-shaped instrument, wide at the base and elongated to form a neck, with the head bent back at right angles and the strings plucked by the fingers,—the lute of the 6th century a.d.,—is seen first on a frieze from Afghanistan, forming one of the risers of steps to the tope of Jamal-Garhi. These sculptures, preserved at the British Museum, are assigned to the 2nd or 3rd century, and are said to show traces of classical influence. The same instrument is found engraved on a Sassanian silver dish in the British Museum,@@7 of workmanship assigned to a period not later than the 7th century a.d.j but probably earlier, as wr ell as on other dishes of similar origin; one in the Hermitage, St Petersburg, was found at Irbit in 1880, on which Eros is depicted playing the lute and riding on a lion.@@8 A third, found at Perm, forms part of Count Stroganov’s collection.@@
Excavations carried out in ancient Khotan@@10 or Ilchi (Turkestan, on the caravan route to Kashgar) have brought to light further evidence of the ubiquity of the rebab type in Asia. In addition to the two principal types of rebab (fig. 3) mentioned above there is also to be found the spoon-shaped instrument with no neck and large round head (fig. 4), sometimes seen in European medieval sculptures and MSS. of the nth and 12th centuries.@@11
The pear-shaped rebab or lute appears also among the celebrated paintings in the Buddhist cave temples of Ajanta,@@ assigned to the 6th century a.d. A later example at the British Museum, a fragment of a dish found at Rhajes or Ray,@@1 * in northern Persia,
{@}ments & archet (Paris, 1856); Edward Heron Allen, Violin-making as it was and is (London, 1884); E. J. Payne, article “Violin” in Grove’s Dictionary of Music (1st ed.). See also The Instruments of the Orchestra (London, 1910), part ii., “ Precursors of the Violin Family,” by Kathleen Schlesinger, where the evolution of the violin is traced from the cithara of the Greeks.
@@@1 See J. P. N. Land’s paper, “ Recherches sur l’histoire de la gamme arabe,” VI. Intern. Orient. Congress, part ii. (Leiden, 1884) (Brit. Mus. press-mark, acad. 8806), p. 130, and also p. 56.
@@@*    See Manano Soriano Fuertes, loc. cit.
@@@*    The copy of Farabi’s MS., used for their translations by Kose-garten and Land, Escorial, No. 911, dates from the middle of the 12th century. See Michael Casiri, Bibl. Arab. Hisp., vol. i. p. 347, and Forkel, Allgemeine Litteratur der Musik (Leipzig, 1792), p. 487; also R. G. Kiesewetter, Die Musik der Araber nach Originalquellen dargestellt (Leipzig, 1842), p. 64 and preface. Another MS. copy of Al-Farabi, in the Bibliotheca Ambrosiana in Milan, is described by Hammer von Purgstall in the Bibliotheca Italiana, tom. xciv. (Milan, 1839), p. 44; cf. preface in Kiesewetter, p. viii.
@@@4 Excavations carried out by the Brit. School of Archaeology in Egypt and by the Egyptian Research Account. See “ Hyksos and Israelite Cities,” by W. M. Flinders Petrie and J. Garrow Duncan, Mem. Brit. Sch. of Arch., 1906.
@@@6 See Laurent Grillet, Les ancêtres du violon, &c. (Paris, 1901), tome i. p. 29.    “ Portail occidental de l’église de Moissac,” 12th
century.
@@@6    See Délégation en Perte, by J. de Morgan (Paris, 1900), vol. i. pl. 8, Nos. 8 and 9, text, pp. 130 and 131.
@@@7    See Ormonde M. Dalton, The Treasures of the Oxus, catalogue of the Franks bequest to the British Museum, 1905, pl. xxvi. No. 190.
@@@8    See for an illustration and description, Comptes rendus de la commission impériale d'archéologie pour Vannée 1881 (St Petersburg, 1883)1 text, p. 53, and atlas of the same date, pl. ii. No. 10.
@@@* See J. R. Aspelin, Antiquités du nord, p. 141, No. 608.
@@@10    See Ancient Khotan, a detailed report of archaeological explorations in Chinese Turkestan, carried out by H.M. Indian government, by Marc Aurel Stein (Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1907), vol. ii. pl. xlvi. Nos. Yoonk, YOOiid (spoon-shaped rebab), pl. xliii. Nos. Y0028 and Y0091.
@@@11    See, for instance, Psalter of Labeo Notker, 10th century, Bibl. Stift St Gallen, on the top of left-hand gable pillar. Illustration in Kathleen Schlesinger, The Instruments of the Orchestra (London, 1910), part ii., “ Precursors,” pl. iv. p. 154.
@@@“See reproductions by John Griffiths (London, 1896), vol. ii. pl. 105, cave L, 10, e.
@@@18 Brit. Mus., Ceramic Gallery, case A, Henderson Bequest, 1891.
destroyed by Tenghiz Khan in the 13th centuryhas the four pegs in the side of the head. Finally, we find the instrument on the
doorway of the Hfipital du Moristan@@1 (Cairo), carved work of the 13th century.
In all these examples it is noteworthy that the strings are vibrated by plucking them with the fingers, not by means of the bow, the use of which; in conjunction with those structural features, constitutes the violation of an acoustic principle, and therefore accounts for the failure of the instrument as Rebab and its successful development as Lute, There are, however, two early examples of bowed rebabs of Byzantine origin to be cited. A pear-shaped rebab, held like a violoncello and played by means of a very long and slender bow, is carved on one of the reliefs of an ivory casket of Italo-Byzantine work of the 8th or 9th century, belonging to the Carrand Collection, Florence (see Rebec). Another bowed instrument, of still earlier date, is to be seen among the wonderful mural paintings of the necropolis and monastery of Baouit,@@* assigned to the 8th century at the latest, but probably dating from the 6th or 7th.
The examination of all these representations of the rebab, ranging from 1000 B.c. to the 13th century a.d., tends to show that the instrument had its origin in the East, and was widely distributed over Asia Minor, India and Persia before the 6th century a.d. Similar archaeological documents of the middle ages suggest the possibility that we are not indebted to the Arabs alone for the introduction of the rebab and bow and of the lute into Europe by way of Spain, early in the 8th century, but that they had probably already made their way into southern and central Europe from the East through the influence of the Byzantine Empire and of the Christian East generally.
It is clear also that the instruments of the rebab type were at first twanged with the fingers, and the bow was apparently not invented for the rebab but only applied to it. All arguments in favour of including the rebab among the ancestors of the violin on the score of the bow lose their force, and as the rebab possessed no structural feature in common with the violin the question may be considered settled negatively.
For the European development of the rebab, see Rebec. (K. S.)
REBATE (Fr. rabat> from rabattre, to beat back), a term used in commerce, banking, &c. In banking, a rebate is an allowance made to a drawee taking up a bill of exchange before it is due. This allowance is the interest on the unexpired period of the bill, and in practice may be either a fixed or arbitrary rate; more often it is £%, about the usual bank deposit rate. In commerce, rebate is sometimes used to mean a discount allowed for prompt payment; it is often equivalent to drawback, i.e. the repayment of part of the duty on imported goods when such goods are subsequently exported in their original or in another form. By the Customs Consolidation Act, 1853, a rebate or deduction is allowed at the custom-house from the fixed duties on certain kinds of goods, on account of damage or loss sustained in warehouses.
REBEC, or Rebeck (Med, Fr. rubbbe, rebelle, rebec, gtgue; Ger. Rubebaf Rebek, Geige, Lyra; Ital. ribeba, ribecat lyra; Sp, rabely rabeca, ravt, rabi)t a medieval stringed instrument played with a bow, derived from the Oriental rebab. Like the rebab (^.r.), the rebec assumed at first one of two forms—the pear-shaped body with a wide base, strung with three strings, or the long, narrow pear- or boat-shaped body with two strings and, in addition, the other Oriental characteristics of the rebab, i.e. the vaulted back, the absence of ribs and pegs set in the back of the head. Except for the addition of a fingerboard, what is now recognised as the rebec underwent no structural development and never entered the domain of art. When the guitar-fiddle and the oval vielle with five strings made their appearance in Europe, apparently during the nth century, a number of hybrids combining characteristics of both types of construction spread rapidly over western Europe,
A spoon-shaped instrument, in most cases without neck, the head being joined directly to the wide shoulders of the body, must not be confounded with these hybrids; the compass and capabilities of the instrument, which sometimes had but one single string, must have been extremely limited. What the name of the instrument was in the various ages is not known, but it may be classed with the rebab and rebec, from which it only differs in the outline of the body. The present writer discovered an Oriental archetype on a small terra-cotta figure@@* in the style of the GandhSra school, unearthed at Y5tkan on the site of the ancient Khotan. The round head is fastened directly to the shoulders, the three strings are thrown into relief by deep indentations, the bridge tail-piece has three notches. The instrument (assigned to some period between the 5th and 8th centuries a.d.) may be compared with the European medieval type, such, for instance, as the bowed spoon-shaped rebec on the capital of the left pillar in the miniature@@4 of King David and his musiciaus, belonging to the 10th-century psalter of Labeo Notker at St Gallen; also with the musicians’ lyra on the western doorway of the church at Moissan;@@6 and with the British Museum Add, MS. 17333, in which several of these spoon-shaped, neckless instruments are to be found.
The pear-shaped rebec with wide base was in all probability introduced into Europe through the Byzantine Empire, and the narrow boat-shaped by the Moors byway of Spain. The first of these types is represented on one of the sides of an ivory casket of Italo-Byzantine workmanship preserved among the Carrand Collection@@* in the Palazzo del Podesta in Florence. It belongs to the same group as the Vcroli casket at the South Kensington Museum, all of which are assigned to the 9th century at the latest.
The pear-shaped rebec on the ivory casket, although like all rebecs it had no separate neck, was elongated to form one, and terminated in a lozenge-shaped head all in one piece with back and neck, the soundboard being cut to the same outline and glued to the back. There were four strings to these rebecs, of which there are many examples in English MSS. from the nth century. One of the best known, sometimes described as the Anglo-Saxon fythele, is the one played by Jeduthun in the usual illustration of KingIDavid and nis musicians prefaced to the Psalms in an Anglo-Saxon psalter (Cotton MS., Tib. C. VI., Brit. Mus.). Other examples are to be found in a Latin psalter illuminated by an English artist at the beginning of the 12th century (Lansd., 383, Brit. Mus.); in which the rebec has but one string and resembles the lyra teutonica mentioned above.@@7
Medieval documentary evidence points to the fact that the long boat-shaped rebec had survived in Spain and spread by way of France over western Europe. The much-quoted 14th-century
@@@1 See Prisse d’Avennes, VA rt arabe d'aprbs les monuments du Caire du vii· au xviii* sibcle (Paris, 1877). The unnumbered plates are to be identified by the list given at the beginning of the work.
@@@* For the illustration, see Jean C16dat, “ Le monastic et la ndcropole de Baouit,” M6m. de VInst. fr. d'arclUol. orient, du Cairet  tome xii., 190.1. Chapelle, xviii. pi. Ixiv. (2). Descriptive text, p. 92. See also article " Baouit ” by the same author, descriptive of the paintings in F. Cabrol’s Diet. d'arch. chrU. et de liturgie (Paris, 1907), fasc, xii. B., p. 250b, ·
@@@*    See Marc. Aurel Stein, Ancient Khotan : Detailed Report of the Archaeological Explorations in Chinese Turkestan carried ou{ by H.M. Indian Government (Clarendon Press, 1907), vol. i. pi. xlvii. No. Yoond.
@@@*    See Laurent Grillet, Les ancetres du violon (Paris, 1901), vol. i. p. 29. The author calls these instruments lyrat which is a synonym of rebab.
@@@1 See Kathleen Schlesmger, The Instruments of the Orchestra, part ii., “ Precursors of the Violin Family ” (London, 1910), pi. iv. p. 154. The spoon-shaped instrument with a long neck on pi. v. (9th century) must be referred to the pandoura family.
@@@The casket^ has been reproduced by A. Venturi in Gallerie Naz. Ital·, vol. Hi., 1897, p. 263; and UArte, vol. i. 1896, p. 24.
@@@1 See also English psalters of the 13th century in tne British Museum, Lansd. MS., 420, and Arundel, 157, sol. 71b.    * · ·
poem by Juan Ruiz, archipreste de Hita,@@1 containing an enumeration of the musical instruments of his day, includes el ravé gritador con su alta nota (the shrill rebec with its high note) and el rabe morisco. By a process of deduction we have no difficulty in identifying the long, narrow, boat-shaped instrument as el robé morisco, since the instrument has survived almost unchanged among the Arabs of the present day@@2 from the 13th century, and probably from the early centuries of our era. The shrill rebec {el rave gritador) with thinner strings was the pear-shaped instrument, in the magnificent MS. known as the Cantigas di Santa Maria, assigned to the 13th century,@@3 there are three of those boat-shaped rebecs played with a bow and one twanged by the fingers; they have finger-boards and two strings, and are held like the violoncello. Rebabs of this type, but without bows, were in use in ancient Persia, c. 789 b.c., as is demonstrated by some little terra-cotta figures of musicians unearthed in a tell at Suza.@@4 Two of the instruments, held, however, like the violin, are unmistakably the archetypes of this rebec.
The rebec did not escape the general tendency so noticeable in Europe from the 12th to the 15th century towards the ornamentation of musical instruments with grotesque heads. The socket of the chaunter of the bagpipe, the heads of the cittern and ghittern, the mandoline and the rebec, were all alike decorated with grotesque human or animal heads, which in England became proverbial as cittern-heads.
The boat-shaped rebec survived as the sordino or pochette,@@6 an instrument widely used by dancing mastere until the 19th century, when it was abandoned for the kit, a diminutive violin. The pochette, as its name in French and also in German {Taschengeige) indicates, was small enough to be carried in the pocket; it measured from 15 to 18 in. and was played with a correspondingly small bow. The 15th- and 16th-century rebec or geige, as the pear-shaped variety was called in Germany {gigue in France), is figured by Sebastian Virdung;@@6 there were three strings tuned to G, D, A, and it had a finger-board cut in one piece with the sound-board in some cases and forming a step. Some writers consider that the addition of the finger-board constituted the difference between the geige and the rebec. Facts hardly support this theory, since the lyra teutónica in the 9th or nth century already had a finger-board, and Farabi, the Arabic scholar of the 10th century, who was equally familiar with the Greek, Persian and Arabic musical systems, distinctly states that the rebab was also known as the lyra. The modern Greek rebec with three strings is to this day played by rustic musicians under the name of lyra. Moreover, in Germany, bowed instruments of all kinds were at first known as geige, in contradistinction to those whose strings were plucked, classed together as cytharas or some word derived from it, the most modern example of which is the zither. With the rise of the viols and later of the violin, which represent the most perfect type of construction for stringed instruments, the rebec tribe, inferior in every respect and without artistic merit, was gradually relegated beyond the pale,@@7  and by the 18th century had fallen into disuse except in certain rural districts, where for outdoor music, their shrill, penetrating tone continues to endear them to itinerant and village musicians. (K. S.)
@@@1 See Mariano Soriano Fuertes, Historia de la Música española (Madrid, 1855), vol. i. p. 105. Ay meric du Peyrae, in his Vita Carols Magni (13th century), mentions the rebec; see Du Cange, Glossarium, s.v. 44 Baudosa.” Hieronymus of Moravia mentions the rubebe, and states that it has three strings, whereas the vielle had five (MS. Fonds Latin, No. 16 [663 actuel.], Paris Bibl. Nat.). In the Minne Regel (“ Rules of the Minnesingers ”), 1404, line 415: 14 Noch dan quinterna, gyge, videle, lyra, rubeba ” ; see Der Minne Regel von Eberhardus Cercne aus Minden, 1404, edited by Franz Xaver Woeber (Vienna, 1861), p. 24.
@@@2    For an illustration see Carl Engel, Researches into the History of the Violin Family, and E. Heron-Allen, The Violin, and how to make it.
@@@3    Edward Buhle is of opinion that the miniatures in these MSS. are the work of a 14th-century artist. See Die Musik-instrumente in den Minaturhandschriften des Mittelalters (Leipzig, 1903).
@@@4    See J. de Morgan, La Délégation en Perse (Paris, 1900), vol. i. pl. viii., Nos. 8 and 9.
@@@6    There is a pochette in the Galpin Collection, c, 1700; for an illustration see Kathleen Schlesinger, The Instruments of the Orchestra, part ii., 44 Precursors of the Violin Family/’ p. 201, fig. 158.
@@@* Música getuischt und ausgezogen, Basel, 1511, reprinted in Publikationen d. Ges.f. Musikforschung, Berlin, 1883, Bd. xi.
@@@7    Antoine Vidal in La Lutherie et les luthiers, to show the contempt with which the rebec was viewed in France in the 15th century, quotes from the charges of King Charles V11L, 1483, where the following entry occurs: 44 On donna sur son ordre 35 sols à une poure insensée qui jouoit du rebec.” The lieutenant of Paris, in March 27, 1628, issued the following order: 41 Faisant défenee à tous musiciens de jouer dans les cabarets et mauvais lieux des dessus, basses ou autres parties de violon ains seulement du rebec.” A well-known passage in Chaucer testifies to a similar contempt in 14th-century England: 14 Brother, quod he, here woneth an old rebekke,” &c. {Freres Tale, 7156).
REBECCA RIOTS, the name given to some disturbances which occurred in 1843 in the counties of Pembroke, Carmarthen, Glamorgan, Cardigan and Radnor, after a slight outbreak of the same nature four years previously. During a period of exceptional distress the rioting was caused mainly by the heavy charges at the toll-gates on the public roads in South Wales, and the rioters took as their motto the words in Genesis xxiv. 60, 44 And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them.” Many of the rioters were disguised as women and were on horseback; each band was led by a captain called 44 Rebecca,” his followers being known as 44 her daughters.” They destroyed not o^ly the gates but also the toll-houses, and the work was carried out suddenly and at night, but usually without violence to the toll-keepers, who were allowed to depart with their belongings. Emboldened by success, a large band of rioters marched into the town of Carmarthen on the 10th of June and attacked the workhouse, but on this occasion they were dispersed by a troop of cavalry which had hurried from Cardiff. The Rebeccaites soon became more violent and dangerous. They turned their attention to other grievances, real or fancied, connected with the system of land-holding, the administration of justice and other matters, and a state of terrorism quickly prevailed in the district. Under these circumstances the government despatched a large number of soldiers and a strong body of London police to South Wales, and the disorder was soon at an end. In October a commission was sent down to inquire into the causes of the riots. It was found that the grievances had a genuine basis; measures of relief were introduced, and South Wales was relieved from the burden of toll-gates, while the few rioters who were captured were only lightly punished.
REBELLION, the act or continuance in act of a rebel or rebels (Lat. rebellio, rebellis, a compound of re-, against, and helium, war). A rebel is one who engages in armed resistance to the government to which he owes allegiance. For the distinction between Civil War and Rebellion, see War, Laws of. Where individuals as distinguished from groups of men are concerned the character of rebel is easier to determine. That the alleged act of war was done by order of another cannot be in principle an excuse for a subject or citizen of any state taking arms against it. Under .the rules of war adopted at the Hague in 1907, moreover, any excuse for doing so is removed by the provision that a belligerent is forbidden to compel nationals of the hostile party to take part in operations of war against their own country, 44 even if they were in the belligerent's service before the commencement of the war ” (art. 123). In the case of R. v. Lmw, known as the 44 Calvinia Flogging case ” (Supreme Court of the Cape Colony, Feb. 18,1904), the question of the validity of the excuse of acting under orders contrary to allegiance was discussed in an uncertain spirit, and in a previous case, the Moritz case, tried before the Treason Court at Mafeking (Nov. 7, 1901), the court held that insurgent nationals 44 who had joined the burghers must be placed on the same footing as burghers fighting against us.” There may be special circumstances operating to qualify the application of a principle, but the above stated principle, as such, must be regarded as the only legal basis of argument on the subject.    (T. Ba.)
REBUS (Lat. rebus, 44 by things ”), a sort of riddle consisting of the representation of some sentence or thing by means of pictures or words, or a combination of both. Rebuses first became popular in France, where they were at first called rèbus de Picardie, that province, according to G. Ménage (1613-1692), having been the scene of their origin, which he found in the satires written by the students and young clerks on the foibles of the day under the title 44 De rebus quae gerunlur.” Camden mentions an instance of this kind of wit in a gallant who expressed his love to a woman named Rose Hill by painting in the border of his gown a rose, a hill, an eye, a loaf and a well; this, in the style of the rebus, reads 44 Rose Hill I love well.” This kind of wit was happily ridiculed by Ben Jonson in the humorous description of Abel D rugger's device in the Alchemist and by
the Spectator in the device of Jack of Newberry. The name is also applied to arrangements of words in which the position of the several vocables is to be taken into account in divining the meaning. Thus “I understand you undertake to overthrow my undertaking ” makes the rebus may be read " un soupir vient souvent d’un souvenir.” A still simpler French rebus is expressed by the two letters G a, which may be read, J’ai grand appétit (G grand, a petit). “ Rebus " (or " allusive arms ”), in heraldry, is a coat of arms which bears an allusion to the name of the person,—as three castles for Castleton, three cups for Butler, three conies for Coningsby.
RÉCΑΜΙΕR, JEANNE FRANÇOISE JULIE ADELAIDE (1777-1849), a famous Frenchwoman in the literary and political circles of the early 19th century, was bom on the 4th of December 1777 at Lyons. Her maiden name was Bernard. She was married at fifteen to the banker Jacques Récamier (d. 1830), who was more than old enough to be her father. Beautiful, accomplished, with a real love for literature, she possessed at the same time a temperament which protected her from scandal, and from the early days of the consulate to almost the end of the July monarchy her salon in Paris was one of the chief resorts of literary and political society that pretended to fashion. The habitués of her house included many former royalists, with others, such as Bernadotte and General Moreau, more or less disaffected to the government. This circumstance, together with her refusal to act as lady-in-waiting to the Empress Josephine and her friendship for Madame de Staël, brought her under suspicion. It was through Madame de Staël that Madame Récamier became acquainted with Benjamin Constant, whose singular political tergiversations during the last days of the empire and the first of the restoration have been attributed to her persuasions. Madame Récamier was eventually exiled from Paris by Napoleon’s orders. After a short stay at Lyons she proceeded to Rome, and finally to Naples, where she was on exceedingly good terms with Murat and his wife, who were then intriguing with the Bourbons. She persuaded Constant to plead the claims of Murat in a memorandum addressed to the congress of Vienna, and also induced him to take up a decided attitude in opposition to Napoleon during the Hundred Days. Her husband had sustained heavy losses in 1805, and she visited Madame de Staël at Coppet in Switzerland. There was a project for her divorce, in order that she might marry Prince Augustus of Prussia, but though her husband was willing it was not arranged. In her later days she lost most of the rest of her fortune; but she continued to receive visitors at the Abbaye-aux-Bois, the old Paris convent to which she retired in 1814. Here Chateaubriand was a constant visitor, and in a manner master of the house; but even in old age, ill-health and reduced circumstances Madame Récamier never lost her attraction. She seems to have been incapable of any serious attachment, and although she numbered among her admirers Mathieu de Montmorency, Lucien Bonaparte, Prince Augustus of Prussia, Ballanche, J. J. Ampère and Constant, none of them obtained over her so great an influence as did Chateaubriand, though she suffered much from his imperious temper. If she had any genuine affection, it seems to have been for Prosper de Barante, whom she met at Coppet. She died in Paris on the 11th of May 1849.
There arc well-known portraits of her by Louis David in the galleries of the Louvre, and by François Gérard in the possession of the préfecture of the Seine. In 1859 Souvenirs et correspondances tirés des papiers de Madame Récamier was edited by Mme Lenor-mant. See Mme Lenormant's Madame Récamier. les amis de sa jeunesse et sa correspondance intime (1872); Mme Mohl, Madame Récamier, with a sketch of the history of society in France (1829 and 1862); also Guizot in the Revue des deux mondes for December 1859 and February 1873; H. Noel Williams, Madame Récamier and her Friends (London, 1901); E. Hemott (Engl, trans., by Alvs Hallard), Madame Recamier et ses amis (1904) (elaborate and exhaustive).
RECAN ATI, a city of the Marches, Italy, in the province of Macerata, 8 m. direct N.N.E. of the dty of that name. Pop. (1901) 14,590 (town), 16,389 (commune). It has a station on the railway 17J m. S. of Ancona, and distant 4$ m. from the town, which is built on a hill, 931 ft. above the sea, and retains portions of its 15th-century walls and gateways. It was the birthplace of the poet Leopardi (1798-1837), whose monument adorns the principal piazza and-whose family has collected in the town a very interesting museum of Leopardiana; it also contains fine old mansions of the Leopardi, Mazzagalli, Massucci and Carradori in the main street, and a Gothic cathedral, built towards the close of the 14th century and dedicated to S Flavianus, patriarch of Constantinople. The churches of S Maria sopra Mercanti and San Domenico contain characteristic examples of the work of Lorenzo Lotto, as also does the new municipal palace, with a fine old battlemented tower, while the palace of Cardinal Venicr has a fine Renaissance loggia by Giuliano da Maiano, who was probably responsible for the designs for the portals of S Agostino and S Domenico. The older buildings of the town are noteworthy for the curious terra-cotta work which adorns the majority of them.
Recanati appears as a strong castle in the 10th century or earlier. Round this gathered a community whose petty wars with Osimo (Auximum) called for the interference of Innocent
III. in 1198. From Frederick II. it obtained the right of having a port on the Adriatic; and by Gregory IX. it was made a city and the seat of the bishopric transferred from Osimo. This oscillation between Guelf and Ghibelline continued characteristic of Recanati. Urban IV. abolished the “ dty ” and bishopric; Nicholas IV. restored them. John XXII. again, in 1320, removed the bishopric and placed the dty under interdict.
■ The interdict was withdrawn in 1328 on payment of a heavy fine, but the bishopric remained in abeyance till 1357. Gregory XII., who on his deposition by the council of Constance was made papal legate of the sees of Macerata and Recanati, died in this city in 1417. The assistance rendered by Recanati to the popes in their struggles with the Sforza seems to have exhausted its resources, and it began to decline. Considerable damage was done by the earthquake of 1741; and the French, who were twice in possession of the city in 1797, pillaged it in 1799.
RECEIPT (M.E. receile, derived through Fr. from Lat. recepta, partidplc of recipere, to receive), in law, an acknowledgment in writing that a sum of money or other valuable considered has been received by the person signing the acknowledgment in discharge of a debt or other obligation. Such a receipt is prima facie evidence only of payment, and it may be shown, for example, that it was signed by mistake, or obtained by fraud or misrepresentation. By the Stamp Act of 1891, which repealed and re-enacted other acts, a duty of id. is imposed on every receipt or form of writing discharging a debt of £2 or upwards; the payment of the duty is denoted by affixing a penny stamp to the document, and the cancelling of the same by the person giving the receipt. By § 103 if a person gives a receipt, liable to duty, not duly stamped, or refuses to give a receipt, liable to duty, duly stamped or, on payment to the amount of £2 or upward, gives a receipt for a less sum than £2 or divides the amount paid with intent to evade the duty, he is liable to a fine of £10. A receipt not duly stamped may be stamped at the Inland Revenue Office within fourteen days on payment of a fine of £5 or within one month on payment of £10.
RECEIVER, in English law, an officer or manager appointed by a court to administer property for its protection, to receive rent or other income and to pay authorized outgoings. Receivers may be either appointed pendente liie or by way of equitable execution, e.g. for the purpose of enabling a judgment creditor to obtain payment of his debt, when the position of the real estate is such that ordinary execution will not reach it. Formerly receivers were appointed only by the court of chancery, but by the Judicature Act 1S73 it is now within the power of all
divisions of the High Court to appoint receivers. Their powers and duties are exhaustively set by Kerr, On Receivers (5th ed., 1905), who classifies the cases in which they may be appointed under the following heads: (a) infants; (b) executors and trustees; (c) pending litigation as to probate; (d) mortgagor and mortgagee; (e) debtor and creditor; (/) public companies; (g) vendor and purchaser; (h) covenanter and covenantee; (t) tenant for life and remainderman; {j) partners; (k) lunacy; (/) tenants in common; (m) possession under legal title, and (?z) other cases. The appointment of receivers is entirely within the discretion of the courts, and the power may be exercised “ in all cases in which it shall appear just and convenient.” Application for a receiver is usually made by motion, and the court will appoint the fittest person, without regard to who may propose him, the appointment of a receiver being for the benefit of all parties. Under the Conveyancing Act 1881, when a mortgagee has become entitled to exercise his powers of sale, he may, by writing under his hand, appoint such person as he think fit to be receiver. In bankruptcy practice a receiver, termed official receiver, is an officer of the court who in this capacity takes possession on the making of a receiving order, of all a debtor's assets. He is also an officer of the Board of Trade with the duty of taking cognisance of the conduct of the debtor and administering his estates (see Bankruptcy).
Receiver-general is the title given to a chief receiver, more especially as applied to the collection of public revenue. The title survived in the Inland Revenue up to 1891, but it is now only used as the designation of an officer of the duchy court of Lancaster, who receives the revenues, &c., of the duchy.
RECEPT (from Lat. recipere, to take back), a philosophical term, used by Romanes {Mental Evolution of Man, ii. 36, 37), on the analogy of “ concept and percept,” for mental images assumed to be produced by the simple repetition of percepts. The process is supposed to be the gradual elimination of elements in which the percepts disagree, and the emphasizing of those in which they agree. Thus the final residuum is a unity in difference. Recepts are, in fact, “ spontaneous associations, formed unintentionally as what may be termed unperceived abstractions,” i.e. what are generally known as “ generic images.”
RECESS (Lat. recessus, a going back, withdrawal, from recedere, to withdraw), a term particularly used of a cessation of work or relief from duty, e.g. of the periods during the life of a parliament when it is not sitting. The word is also applied to an indentation in a line, especially of a small alcove sunk in the wall of a room. A particular use is the historical one for the acts and decrees of the Imperial Diet, the recessus Imperii, and also for those of the Hanseatic League. According to Du Cange (s.t>. Recessus) the reason for the use of this word was that these decrees, &c.‘ .{codex deliberationum), were written out antequam a conventibus recedant proceres congregati.
RECHABITES, or Sons of Rechab, a sort of religious order among the Israelites in some respects analogous to the Nazarites (?.v.), with whom they shared the rule of abstinence from wine. They also eschewed the luxuries and pursuits of settled life, and lived in tents, refusing to sow grain as well as to plant vineyards. They represent a protest against the contemporary Canaanite civilization and a reaction towards the simplicity of life which was felt more strongly in Judah or to the east of the Jordan than in the northern kingdom of Israel. Their “ father,” or founder, was that Jehonadab or Jonadab, son of Rechab, who encouraged Jehu to abolish the Tyrian Baal-worship (2 Kings x.). The order founded by Jehonadab must from its constitution have soon become a sort of hereditary clan, and as such the “ house of Rechab ” appears in Judah after the fall of the northern kingdom and continued to observe the ordinance of Jehonadab till the approach of Nebuchadrezzar drove them for protection into Jerusalem (Jer. xxxv.). Jeremiah promised them as a reward of their obedience that they should never lack a man to represent them (as a priest) before Yahweh, whence perhaps the later Jewish tradition that the Rechabites intermarried with the Levites and so entered the temple service.
Later references to them probably indicate ^ that the term was used as meaning merely ascetes (Euseb., H. E. ii. 23), the particular form of asceticism {q.v.) being less essential. One may compare the modern society of total abstainers known as the “ Rechabites.” Ini Chron. ii. 55 the “ house of Rechab ” is associated with the Kenites (g.ü.) as a family of scribes. Their origin is ascribed to Uammath (conceivably the Naphtalite city, Josh. xix. 35), but in 1 Chron. iv. 12 Rechab (so the LXX) is of Calebite descent.
RECHBERG - ROTHENLÖWEN, JOHANN BERNHARD,
Count (1806-1899), Austrian statesman, was the second son of the Bavarian statesman Count Aloys von Rechberg-Rothenlöwen (1766-1849). Johann Bernhard was destined for the Bavarian public service, his elder brother being a hereditary member of the Upper House in the parliament of Württemberg. He was educated at the universities of Strassburg and Munich, but he incurred the displeasure of King Louis I. by the part he played as second in a duel, and in 1828 he transferred himself to the Austrian diplomatic service. After being attached to the embassies in Berlin, London and Brussels, he was appointed envoy at Stockholm (1841) and at Rio de Janeiro (1843). Returning to Europe in 1847, on the outbreak of the revolution of 1848 in Vienna he was of great service to Prince Metternich, whom he accompanied and assisted in his flight to England. In July 1848 hfe was appointed Austrian plenipotentiary in the German federal diet at Frankfort, in 1851 became Austrian internuncius at Constantinople, and in 1853 Radetzky’s civilian colleague in the government of Lombardo-Venetia. In 1855 he returned to Frankfort as Austrian representative and president of the federal diet. As a pupil of Metternich he would have wished to preserve the good understanding with Prussia which seemed the necessary foundation for a conservative policy; he was, however, made the instrument for the anti-Prussian policy of Buol; this brought about constant disputes with Bismarck, at that time Prussian envoy at the diet, which were sharpened by Rechberg’s choleric temper, and on one occasion nearly led to a duel. Bismarck, however, always expressed a high appreciation of his character and abilities. In May 1859, on the eve of the war with Italy, he was appointed Austrian minister of foreign affairs and minister president, surrendering the latter post to the archduke Rainer in the following year.
The five years during which Rechberg held the portfolio of foreign affairs covered the war with Italy and France, the insurrection in Poland, the attempted reform of the German Confederation through the Frankfort Fiirstentag, and the Austro-Prussian war with Denmark. After the defeat of Magenta Rechberg accompanied the emperor to Italy, and he had to meet the crisis caused by a war for which he was not responsible. He began the concessions to Hungary and in the Polish question, and was responsible for the adhesion of Austria to the alliance of the Western Powers. In the German question Rechberg’s policy was one of compromise. To the project of the Fiirstentag he was altogether opposed. The project had been suggested to the emperor Francis Joseph by his son-in-law, the hereditary prince of Turn and Taxis, and by a pamphlet of Julius Fröbel, and the preliminary arrangements were made without Rechberg being informed. When at last he, was told, he tendered his resignation, which was not accepted, and he accompanied the emperor to the abortive meeting at Frankfort (August 1863). The attempt made by Rechberg at the subsequent ministerial conference at Nuremberg to.establish a German league without Prussia was equally unsuccessful, and he now returned to the policy, which in opposition to Schmerling he had throughout advocated, of a peaceful arrangement between Prussia and Austria as the indispensable preliminary to a reform of the Confederation.
At this juncture the death of King Frederick VII. of Denmark (15th of November 1863) opened up the whole Schleswig-Holstein question (#.t>.). In the diplomatic duel that followed Rechberg was no match for Bismarck. It suited Austrian policy to act in concert with Prussia against Denmark; but Rechberg well knew that Bismarck was aiming at the annexation of the duchies. He attempted to guard against this by laying
down as a condition of the alliance that the duchies should only be separated from Denmark by common consent of the two German powers. Bismarck, however, insisted that the question of the ultimate destination of the duchies should be left open; and, when he backed his argument with the threat that unless Austria accepted his proposal Prussia would act alone, Rechberg gave way. His action was made the object of violent attacks in the Austrian Lower House (28-30 January 1864), and when the war was victoriously concluded and Prussia's designs on the duchies had become evident, public opinion turned more and more against him, demanding that Austria should support the duke of Augustenburg even at the risk of war. Rechberg yielded so far as to assure the duke's representative at Vienna that Austria was determined to place him in possession of the duchies, but only on condition that he did not sign away any of his sovereign rights to Prussia. The outcome of this was that the duke refused the terms offered by King William and Bismarck.
On the 22nd of August there was a meeting of the emperor Francis Joseph and King William at SchSnbrunn, both Rechberg and Bismarck being present. Rechberg himself was in favour of allowing Prussia to annex the duchies, on condition that Prussia should guarantee Austria’s possession of Venice and the Adriatic coast. On the first point no agreement was reached; but the principles of an Austro-Prussian alliance in the event of a French invasion of Italy were agreed upon. This latter proposal was, however, received with violent opposition in the ministry, where Rechberg's influence had long been overshadowed by that of Schmerling; public opinion, utterly distrustful of Prussian promises, was also greatly excited; and on the 27th of October Rechberg handed in his resignation, receiving at the same time the order of the Golden Fleece from the emperor as a sign of special favour. He had been made an hereditary member of the Upper House of the Reichsrat in i86t, and as late as 1879 conthpied occasionally to take part in debates. He died at his chateau of Kettenhof near Vienna on the 26th of February 1899. He had married, in 1834, Barbara Jones, eldest daughter of the 6th Viscount Ranelagh, by whom he had one son, Count Louis (b. 1835).
See the biography by Franz Ilwof in Allgemeine Deutsche Biographic, B. 53. Nachtrage (Leipzig, 1907).
RECIDIVISM (from Fr. Hcidiver^ to relapse and fall again into the same fault, or repeat the same offence as one committed before), a modem expression for “ habitual crime.” The recidivist is now universally known to exist in all civilized countries as one who has adopted wrong-doing and law-breaking as a profession. His persistency is ceaseless and inextinguishable by the ordinary methods of combating crime. Penal justice as generally exercised is unavailing, and is little better than an automatic machine which draws in a vast number within its wheels and casts them out again practically unchanged in character to qualify again for the ineffective treatment. This dangerous contingent is for ever on the move, into prison and out of it and in again; a large proportion of it, the criminal residuum, the very essence of the criminality of a country, resists all processes devised for its regeneration and cure. Nothing will mend it; neither severity nor kindness, neither the most irksome restraints nor the philanthropic methods of moral and educational persuasion. This failure has encouraged some ardent reformers to recommend the system of indefinite imprisonment or the indeterminate sentence, by which the enemy once caught is kept perpetually or for a lengthy period, and thus rendered innocuous. Habitual offenders, it is argued, should be detained as hostages until they are willing to lay down their arms and consent to make no further attempt to attack or injure society. The theory is sound and has been adopted in part in several countries, especially in the United States.
It was not until 1909 that the system of preventive detention was put into operation in the United Kingdom, when, by the Prevention of Crime Act 1908, power was given to the courts to pass on habitual criminals a sentence of preventive detention in addition to one of penal servitude. This further period may · range within limits of from five to ten years, according to the discretion of the court. The English system is hardly more than tentative at present; the machinery is admittedly capable of improvement. The charge of being an habitual criminal has to be inserted in the indictment on which the offender is to be tried, and this cannot be done without the consent of the director of public prosecutions and after certain notice has been given to the officer of the court trying the prisoner and to the offender himself. The decision to charge a prisoner with being an habitual criminal has hitherto rested on the local police authorities, and it has been felt that a more even and a more general application of such a drastic method of treatment would result if the decision were transferred to one authority, and some such reform was foreshadowed by the Home Secretary in a speech in the House of Commons on prison reform on the 20th of July 1910.
RECIFE, or Pernambuco, a dty and seaport of Brazil, capital of the state of Pernambuco, in 8° $' S. and 340 55' W., near the extreme eastern point of South America. Pop. (1904 estimate) 186,000. Recife is frequently called the “ Venice of America it is at the mouths of the rivers Beberibe and Capibaribe which unite to form a small lagoon or bay inside the sea beach. In the angle between the two rivers is the delta island of Antonio Vaz. The city is built on the southern extremity of the sandy sea beach, on the island of Antonio Vaz, and on the mainland to the westward, the river channels being crossed by numerous bridges. With the exception of the hills on which Olinda is built about 5 m. northward, the surrounding country is low and flat, the general elevation averaging 10 ft. As the tide rises about 6 ft., the general level of the dty and neighbouring coast, which is wet and swampy to the southward, is too low to be generally healthy, and Pernambuco has a high death-rate (52J per 1000 in 1904), with malaria as one of the principal causes of death. The climate is hot, although agreeably tempered by the S.E. trade winds; the temperature ranges from an absolute minimum of 6i° to an absolute maximum of 990 (1904). The rainfall (1904) is 75-3 in. The three prindpal parishes of the dty are known as Sio Jos6 do Redfe, occupying the sandy peninsula or beach north of the outlet of the united rivers; Santo Antonio, on the island of Antonio Vaz, which was called Mauritia or Mauritzstad during the Dutch occupation; and Boa Vista, on the mainland to the westward, which is the most modern and the most rapidly growing part. The first is the oldest and most crowded section, and is now devoted chiefly to the commerdal and financial interests of the port; here are the custom house, merchants' exchange (Pra$a do Commerdo), shipping offices, banks and wholesale houses. Santo Antonio dates from the Dutch occupation. Prince Maurice of Nassau, when governor-general, built here his private residence (Fribourg House) and made it his capital. Its business edifices and residences are largely of Dutch architecture, with many storeys and steep roofs. 'The older part of Boa Vista dates from the 17th century. Recife has few public squares or gardens, and its streets are not usually well cared for. The older buildings are of the Portuguese type, usually plain, low and heavy, constructed of broken stone and mortar, and plastered and coloured on the outside. The dty has gas and electric illumination, street and suburban railways, drainage and a public water supply drawn from a small tributary of the Beberibe about 7 m. to the N.W., in the direction of Caxangi. Among its notable public buildings and institutions are the old government palace in Santo Antonio built upon the foundations of the official residence of Prince Maurice of Nassau, with a pretty garden attached; a theatre facing upon the Praca da Republica, dating from the second empire; the palace of the Provincial Assembly in Boa Vista, built in i86o-fi6, surmounted by a high dome; the munidpal palace, or prefecture, on Rua do Imperador, with the public library (Biblioteca Publica) occupying its third floor and containing about 30,000 volumes; the Gymnasium, a large plain building of two floors standing near the legislative palace; the Pedro II. hospital
built between 1847 and 1861; a large penitentiary, insane asylum, orphans’ asylum, and beggars’ asylum; a law school, artisans’ school (Lyceu de Artes e Officios), and archaeological institute; a normal school and school of engineering; and war and naval arsenals. One of the most attractive churches is that of Nossa Senhora da Penha, surmounted by two slender spires and a dome.
The port of Recife is one of the most important of Brazil, on account of its proximity to Europe and its convenience for vessels passing around the east shoulder of the continent. It is the landing-place for two transatlantic and one coastwise cable lines. Its harbour consists of an outer and inner anchorage,' the former an open roadstead, which are separated by a remarkable stone reef running parallel with the shore-line, leaving an inside passage 400 to 500 ft. wide. The entrance to the inner anchorage, which has a depth of about 20 ft., is opposite Fort Brum in the northern part of the city, and is marked by a small Dutch fort (Picao) and a lighthouse at the northern extremity of the reef. This remarkable natural breakwater, which is about 50 ft. wide on top and has been repaired with masonry in some places, covers a considerable part of the coast-, line in this part of Brazil. It is not a coral reef, as is sometimes stated, but is a consolidated ancient beach, now as hard and firm as stone.@@1 In 1910 contractors were at work on improvements to the port to cost about £1,666,000, under a decree of the 3rd of December 1908. The exports include sugar, rum, cotton, hides, skins, rubber, wax, fibres, dyewoods, cac&u, mandioca flour, pineapples and other fruits. Pernambuco is the principal sugar-producing state of* Brazil, and Recife is therefore an important centre for this product. Its railway communications with the interior are good, and include the Sul de Pernambuco, Recife and Sao Francisco, Central de Pernambuco, and the Recife to Limoeiro lines, the first three now being under the management of the Great Western of Brazil Co. There are also suburban lines to Olinda and Caxanga, the latter providing communication with some of the prettiest suburbs about the city.
Recife was settled about 1535, when Duarte Coelho Pereira landed there to take possession of the captaincy granted him by the Portuguese crown. The site of Coelho’s capital was Olinda, but Recife remained its port and did not become an independent villa (town) until 1710. Down to the close of the 18th century, when Rio de Janeiro became important, Recife was the second city of Brazil, and for a time its most important port. It was captured and plundered in 1595 by the English privateer James Lancaster. It was also captured by the Dutch in 1630 and remained in their possession till 1654, during which time the island of Antonio Vaz was occupied and the town greatly improved. At the end of the Dutch War the capital was removed from Olinda to Recife, where it has since remained.
RECIPE, a statement of the materials and ingredients used in the making and preparation of a dish for cooking, a receipt. This is the principal current use, which was first applied to medieval prescriptions from the custom of placing the word, meaning “take this” (imperative of Lat. recipere, to receive), often abbreviated R or IJ, at the head of the formula.
RECIPROCITY (Lat. reciprocus, returning back the same way, alternating, probably from re back and pro forward), the condition or state of being reciprocal, i.e. where there is give and take, mutual influence or correspondence between two parties, persons or things. In a more particular sense, reciprocity is a special arrangement between two nations under which the citizens of each obtain advantages or privileges in their trading relations with the other. This meaning of reciprocity, however, bears a different interpretation in European and in American usage. In the former, reciprocity between two nations usually means little more than the extension by one to the other of most favoured nation treatment, i.e. such advantages as it extends to any third country (see Commercial Treaties).
@@@1 See J. C. Branner’s The Stone Reefs of Brazil (Bui. Comp. Zool., Harvard Univ., xliv., Cambridge, 1904).
But in the United States reciprocity is the term applied to the concessions or arrangements made between that country and another without reference to any third country. Thus in the United States there are a maximum and minimum tariff, the rates of the maximum tariff being enforced on the goods of those countries which have no reciprocity treaty with the United States, and the rates of the minimum on certain products of those countries which have by a reciprocity treaty given special advantages or concessions to certain products of the United States.
RECITAL (from Lat. recitare, to read out, particularly of a public document), an account or repetition of the details of some act, proceeding, fact, &c., particularly, in law, that part of a legal document, such as a lease, which contains a statement of certain facts, e.g. the purport for which the deed is made. In music, the word is used of an instrumental performance given by a single person, and also of a performance of the works of a single composer.
RECKLINGHAUSEN, a town of Germany, in the Prussian province of Westphalia, 22 m. by rail N.W. of Dortmund on the railway to Münster. Pop. (1905) 44,396. In the neighbourhood are extensive coal-mines and brick-works, and the industries embrace the manufacture of linen, beer, spirits and tobacco. ■
The county of Recklinghausen belonged to the archbishopric of Cologne until 1803, when it passed to the duke of Arenberg. It was known as the Vest Recklinghausen. In 1810 it was divided by Napoleon between the grand duchy of Berg and Fiance, but was, in 1815, restored to the duke of Arenberg as a fief under Prussian sovereignty.
See Ritz, Die ältere Geschichte des Veste und der Stadt Recklinghausen (Erzen, 1904).
RECLAMATION OF LAND. The boundaries between sea and land are perennially changing. In many sheltered bays and estuaries the sea is receding, while along other portions of the sea-coast it is continuously encroaching. The same causes operate to produce both results: the rivers carry down with them detritus and sediment from the higher ground; the sea, aided by wind and tide, is always eroding exposed portions of the seaboard; and even such lesser influences as rain and frost assist in disintegrating cliffs composed of softer strata.
The main object of reclaiming land from the sea is to increase the area of ground available for cultivation. Land which has been raised by accretion nearly to high-water level can be shut off from the sea by works of a simple and inexpensive nature, and the fresh alluvial soil thus obtained is generally very fertile.
Accretion in estuaries takes place very slowly under ordinary conditions. Although at any one time the sheltered areas may be large and the deposit of silt fairly rapid, not much permanent accretion will take place owing to the frequent shifting of the channels. Directly, however, a fixed channel is secured by longitudinal embankments or training walls, accretion progresses rapidly and uninterruptedly by the deposit of sediment in the slack-water behind the embankments and at the sides of the estuary; and this is especially the case if the training works are raised to the level of high water, for this has the effect of restricting the greater part of the scour of tide and fresh-water discharge to the one fixed channel. The rate of accretion varies with the shelter of the site and the amount of sediment carried by the water; but by degrees the foreshores, in the upper portion and at the sides of the embanked estuary, are raised sufficiently for samphire to make its appearance, and, later on, a coarse grass. Ultimately the time arrives when the water may be altogether excluded by the construction of enclosing embankments; these must be raised above the level of the highest tide, and should have a flat slope on the exposed side, protected, in proportion to exposure and depth of water, against the face with clay, sods, fascines or stone pitching.
In the intermediate stages of the process outlined above much may be done to promote the growth of accretion, or warping as it is termed, and to ensure the fertility of the reclaimed land. The deposit of warp is accelerated by anything which tends to reduce the flow and consequent scour of the ebb-tide over the
foreshore: thus considerable advantage will accrue from placing rows of faggots or sods across the lines of flow; and banks, enclosing the higher portions of the foreshore, may often be constructed so as materially to increase the period of stagnation, near high tide, of the silt-bearing water upon the lower adjacent foreshore. The fight, fertilizing alluvium only deposits in shallow water at high tide, and where there arc no tidal currents. The final enclosure, therefore, should not be effected until this deposit has taken place. The enclosing works, also, should be so carried out that increasing shelter may favour the deposits of this alluvium during construction. A final and rapid deposit can sometimes be effected by making sluices in the banks: the turbid water is admitted near high tide, and retained until the whole of its silt has been deposited, the dear water being allowed to escape slowly towards low tide. Premature enclosure must be guarded against; it is more difficult, the cost greater, the reclaimed land is less fertile and, being lower, less easy to drain.
The practice of reclaiming land in British estuaries is a very ancient one. The Romans effected reclamations in the Fen districts; the endosing of Sunk Island in the Humber was begun in the 17th century, and now produces an annual revenue of something like £10,000; large reclamations in the Dee estuary took place in the 18th century; and, in recent times, works have been carried out in the estuaries of the Seine, the Ribblc and the Tees.
In the redamation of land adjoining the sea-coast, sites where accretion is taking place are obviously the most suitable. Marsh lands adjoining the sea, and more or less subject to inundation at high tides, can be permanently reclaimed by embankments; but these, unless there is protection from sand dunes or a shingle beach, require to be stronger, higher, with a less steeply indined and better protected slope than is required in estuaries. The width of the bank will generally prevent percolation of water at the base; but if there is any danger of infiltration, owing to unsuitability of material, a central core of puddled day or a row of sheet-piling should be employed. Waves overtopping the bank will quickly cause a breach, and produce disastrous results; the height of the bank must, therefore, be calculated to meet the case of the severest on-shore gale coinciding with the highest spring tide. Undermining, caused * by the recoil of waves on the beach, is liable to occur in exposed sites; this may be prevented by a line of sheet-piling along the outer toe of the bank.
Sea-coast embankments should not generally be constructed farther down the foreshore than half-tide level, as the cost of construction and maintenance would increase out of all proportion to the additional area obtained. It is, as a rule, more economical to redaim a large area at one time, instead of enclosing it gradually in sections, as the cost varies with the length of embankment; it is, however, more difficult to effect the final dosing of a bank, where a large area is thus reclaimed, on account of the greater volume of tidal-water flowing in and out of the contracted opening. The final dosing of a reclamation embankment is best accomplished by leaving a fairly wade aperture, and by gradually raising a lcvd bank across its entire length. The endosed area may be left full of water to the height of the unfinished bank, or the tide-water may be allowed to escape and enter again by sluices in the finished sections. The embankments in Holland arc dosed by sinking long fasdne mattresses across the opening; these are weighted with day and stone, and effectually withstand the scour through the gap; the two terminal slopes of the finished sections are similarly protected.
There are many examples of sea-coast redamation: Romney marsh was endos<xi long ago by the Dymchurch wall (see fig. 1), and a large portion of Holland has been redaimed from the sea by embankments (see fig. 2); the redamation bank for the Hodbarrow iron mines (see fig. 3) illustrates the use of puddled clay to prevent infiltration.
The repair of a breach effected in a completed redamation embankment is a more difficult task than that of dosing the final gap during construction; this is owing to the channel or gully scoured out upon the opening of the breach. When a
breach occurs which cannot be dosed in a single tide, the formation of an over-deep gully may to some extent be prevented
by enlarging the opening. Breaches in embankments have been closed by sinking barges across the gap, by piling and planking
up, by lowering sliding pands between frames erected to receive them, and by making an inset wall or bank round the breach. By the last-mentioned method the new connecting bank can be formed on solid ground, and the necessary width of opening obtained to obviate excessive scour during the influx and efflux of the tide over the bank while it is being raised.
The gradual drying of reclaimed land lowers the surface some ’ two or three feet; the land therefore becomes more liable to inundation after redamation than before. Accordingly, it is most important to prevent breaching of the bank by promptly repairing any damage caused by storms; and if a breach should occur, it must be closed at the earliest possible opportunity.
The protection of the coast-line from encroachment by the sea is a matter of considerable importance and great difficulty: the more rapid the erosion, the more exposed must be the site; and, consequently, the more costly will be the construction and maintenance of protective works. These are of two kinds: sea-walls or banks, and groynes.
Upright sea-walls with some batter on the face have been constructed along the frontage of many sea-side towns, with the double purpose of making a promenade or drive, and of affording protection to the town. A very sloping and also a curved batter breaks the stroke of the wave by facilitating its rising up the face of the wall, but the force of the recoil is correspondingly augmented. A wall with a vertical face offers more direct opposition to a wave, minimizes the tendency to rise, and consequently the recoil; while a stepped face tends to break up both the ascending and recoiling wave in proportion to the recession of the steps, but there is a corresponding liability to displacement of the blocks composing the wall. The concrete sea-walls erected in front of Hove, Margate, and the north cliff at Scarborough (see figs. 4, 5, 6) exhibit straight, stepped, and curved forms of batter. The curvature of the last-named wall, though diverting the coil at its base, did not prevent erosion of the shale bed on which it was founded, and a protective apron in front of the toe had to be added subsequently.
The Beaconsfield sea-wall at Bridlington (see fig. 7) is stepped and slightly curved; it has a stone face with concrete backing,
strengthened at intervals by counterforts. The thickness of the wall varies from n ft. 6 in. at the base to 3 ft. at the top, and is
surmounted by a dressed cornice and coping; the length is 340 yards. The work was constructed, in 1888, at a cost of £ip,ooo, or £29, 8s. per lineal yard.
Walls with almost vertical faces, or slightly stepped, appear to be the best. Unless, however, the foreshore consists of hard rock, or a raised beach maintained by groynes, a wall of this kind should be protected by an apron, in order to prevent the
destructive undermining to which such forms of wall are necessarily liable.
Where the coast is fringed with sand dunes, and the beach protected from erosion by a regular series of groynes, as at Ostend (Belgium), the sand dunes, or an embankment for a promenade in front of them, may be sufficiently protected by a simple slope, paved with brickwork or masonry, and having a maximum inclination of two to one. The paving requires to be laid on a bed of clay, rubble or concrete. Parts of the sea bank at Ostend
(see fig. 8) have been carried out beyond high-water mark to gain a strip of land for the esplanade; and these portions have had to be protected from undermining at the toe with piles and planks, and an apron of concrete or pitching, laid on fascines,
extending down the foreshore. For the parts above high-water mark a short paved slope, with moderate protection at the toe, has been found sufficient. The top face of these slopes is reflexed so as to protect the esplanade from surf during storms.
Sea-walls are very costly and, while temporarily resisting, do not diminish, but actually increase, the erosive action of the sea. In short, sea-walls are a most unsatisfactory type of protective work.
The protection afforded to the coast by groynes is based on a totally different principle, which may be summarized as that of promoting natural accretion by the construction of artificial shelter. Along most coasts there is a littoral drift of sand or shingle; by means of groynes, projecting from the coast-line down the beach, this drift may be intercepted so as to produce accretion to the foreshore, where previously there has been constant erosion. The problem, however, of coast protection by this method presents difficulties. Littoral drift is the product of erosion, and the fate of a large portion of this drift is to be deposited in deep water. Any scheme, therefore, of stopping erosion altogether by means of groynes would be purely chimerical; in the same way, partial failure of groynes, from lack of drift and inability to stop wastage, must be expected in many localities. Another difficulty may be illustrated by the action of such natural projections as Dungeness: this point, by completely arresting the easterly drift .of shingle, causes a rapid accretion to the beach on the one side, but a corresponding denudation on the other. The old type of high groyne, erected at Cromer and Hastings, has produced the same undesirable result; moreover, the general effect of groyning certain portions of the foreshore is to render the adjacent unprotected portions more liable to erosion. Nevertheless, the benefit which may be derived locally from suitable groyning is very great. The timber groynes erected between Lancing and Shoreham raised the shingle beach sufficiently to cause high-water mark to recede 85 ft. seawards in the course of a few years.
The eroding action of the river Scheldt in front of Blanken-berghe has been arrested by carrying out groynes at right angles to the coast-line, and down to below low water (see
figs. 9, 10). These, on the average, are about 820 ft. long and 680 ft. apart: they are made wide, with a curved top raised only slightly above the beach, so as to minimize the scour from currents and wave action, and facilitate the ever.
distribution of drift over the protected area. They are constructed with a foundation of fascines and concrete, faced with brickwork or stone pitching. The result has been the formation of a gently sloping beach which reduces wave action; such loss, too, as is still occasioned by storms is speedily made good by natural accretion in moderate weather. The Blankenberghe groynes are too expensive a type for ordinary use.
The beach at Bridlington, which rests on boulder clay, was rapidly disappearing owing to the increased scour due to the sea-walls. Accordingly, groynes (see figs, 11, 12) made of 14 ft. X 9 in. X 9 in. pitch-pine piles, and 11 in. X 4 in. planking, were erected along the foreshore. The piles origin
ally projected about 6 ft.; but, to prevent heaping up of sand to windward with denudation to leeward, the planking was never raised more than two strakes above sand-level, fresh planks being added as the sand rose. The south-easterly gales are said to be the most erosive here, and prevalent during the winter months; on this account the groynes were given an inclination of 10˚ south of east, that is 10˚ from the perpendicular. It may be doubted whether this was the best
angle, but the result has been very satisfactory. * The cost of construction was from 12s. 3d. to 18s. per lineal foot.
The sand-hanks at the entrance to Poole Harbour have been protected by groynes (see fig. 13) inclined at slightly varying angles, some yielding better results than others. This is a good example of the important work which may be accomplished by groyning. Unprotected, a breach would soon have been effected in these sand-banks; with a double entrance to the bay the present deep channel would have silted up, and Poole Harbour would have been practically destroyed.
It is evident that the efficacy of groynes in collecting drift is proportionate to the distance which they can be carried out seawards, and that they should always be extended to low-water mark; whilst, by raising them only slightly above the beach, the accumulation of drift to leeward is promoted, the passage of drift over the obstruction being facilitated and the scour of the waves diminished. By this means, and by gradually raising and extending the groynes as the drift accumulates, the general elevation of the beach can be secured. Drift generally travels in both directions along a coast, veering with the wind; thus the prevailing wind determines the preponderating travel of the drift. Groynes are usually constructed at right angles to the shore, but it is believed that increased benefit may be obtained by slightly inclining them to leeward of the prevailing wind. Some engineers have advocated the extension of groynes below low-water mark; and as wood when permanently submerged is specially liable, even when creosoted, to be attacked by the teredo and limnoria, the use of reinforced or ferro-concrete has been suggested as the most suitable material for submarine groyning. These suggestions, however, and many other current theories on groyning, require to be demonstrated by repeated experiments.
For a useful bibliography of the subject see British Parliamentary Reports, Coast Erosion and the Reclamation of Tidal Lands, Cd. 3684, Appendix No. X. pp. 146-158.    (L. W. V.-H.)
RECLUS, JEAN JACQUES ELISÉE (1830-1905), French geographer, was born at Sainte-Foy la Grande (Gironde), on the 15th of March 1830. He was the second son of a Protestant pastor, who had a family of twelve children, several of whom acquired some celebrity either as men of letters, politicians or members of the learned professions. His education, begun in Rhenish Prussia, was continued in the Protestant college of Montauban, and completed at the university of Berlin, where he followed a long course of geography under Karl Ritter. Withdrawing from France in consequence of the events of December 1851, he spent the next six years (1852-57) visiting the British Isles, the United States, Central America, and Colombia. On his return to Paris he contributed to the Revue des deux mondes, the Tour du monde and other periodicals a large number of articles embodying the results of his geographical work. Among other works at this period was an excellent short book, Histoire d'un ruisseau, in which he traces the development of a great river from source to mouth. In 1867-68 he published La Terre; description des phénomènes de la vie du globe, in two volumes. During the siege of Paris, Reclus shared in the aerostatic operations conducted by M. Nadar, and also served in the National Guard, while as a member of the Association Nationale des Travailleurs he published in the Cri du Peuple a hostile manifesto against the government of Versailles in connexion with the Communist rising of the 18th of March 1871. Continuing to serve in the National Guard, now in open revolt, he was taken prisoner on the 5th of April, and on the 16th of November sentenced to transportation for life; but, largely at the instance of influential deputations from England, the sentence was commuted in January 1872 to perpetual banishment. Thereupon, after a short visit to Italy, he settled at Clarens, in Switzerland, where he resumed his literary labours, and, after producing the Histoire d'une montagne (a companion to Histoire d'un ruisseatt), wrote nearly the whole of his great work, La Nouvelle Géographie universelle, la terre et les hommes, 19 vols. (1875-94). This is a stupendous compilation, profusely illustrated with maps, plans, and engravings, and was crowned with the gold medal of the Paris Geographical Society in 1892. An English edition appeared simultaneously, also in 19 vols., the first four by E. G. Ravenstein, the rest by A. H. Keane. Extreme accuracy and brilliant exposition form the leading characteristics of all Reclus’s writings, which thus possess permanent literary and scientific value. In 1882 Reclus initiated the “ Anti-Marriage Movement,” in accordance with which he allowed his two daughters to marry without any civil or religious' sanction whatever. This step caused no little embarrassment to many of his well-wishers, and was followed by government prosecutions, instituted in the High Court of Lyons, against the anarchists, members of the International Association, of which Reclus and Prince Kropotkin were designated as the two chief organizers. The prince was arrested and condemned to five years' imprisonment, but Reclus, being resident in Switzerland, escaped. After 1892 he filled the chair of comparative geography in the university of Brussels, and contributed several important memoirs to French, German and English scientific journals. Among these may be mentioned “ The Progress of Mankind ” (Contemp. Rev., 1896); “ Attila de Gerando ” (Rev. Géograph. 1898); “ A great Globe ” (Geograph. Journ., 1898); “ L’Extrême-Orient ” (Bui. Antwerp Geo. Sac.,
1898), a thoughtful study of the political geography of the Far East and its possible changes; “ La Perse ” (Bui. Soc. Neuchateloise, 1899); “ La Phénicie et les Phéniciens ” (ibid., 1900) ; La Chine et la diplomatie européenne (“ L’Humanité nouvelle ” series, 1900); U Enseignement de la géographie (Instit. Géograph. de Bruxelles, No. 5,1901). Shortly before his death Reclus had completed U Homme et la terre, in which he set the crown on his previous greater works by considering man in his development relative to geographical environment. Reclus died at Thourout, near Bruges, on the 4th of July 1905.
RECOGNIZANCE (from Lat. rccognoscerei to acknowledge), a term of English law usually employed to describe an obligation of record, entered into before some court or magistrate duly authorized, whereby the party bound acknowledges (recognizes) that he owes a personal debt to the Crown, with a defeasance, i.e. subject to a condition that the obligation to pay shall be avoided if he shall do some particular act—as if he shall appear at the assizes, keep the peace, or the like. The system of taking recognizances in favour of the Crown at an early date superseded the common law practice as to pledges and main-prize (see re Nottingham Corporation, 1897, 2 Q.B. 502, 514).
Blackstone’s definition extends the term recognizance to bonds in favour of private persons. But at present it is rarely if ever used in this sense. Recognizances are now used almost solely with reference to criminal proceedings. In the Court of Chancery it was the practice to require recognizances from the guardian of a ward of court that the ward should not marry or leave the country with the privity of the guardian and without the leave of the court. The security given by a receiver appointed by the High Court is still in the form of a recognizance acknowledging a debt to named officers of the court, and securing it on the real and personal estate of the receiver.
By an act of 1360 (34 Edw. III. c. r), extended to Ireland by Poyning’s Act, and by the terms of the commission of the peace, justices of the peace have jurisdiction to cause to come before them or any one of them “ all those who to any one or more of our people concerning their bodies or the firing of their houses have used threats to find sufficient security for the peace or their good behaviour towards us and our people; and if they shall refuse to find such security, then there in our prisons until they shall find such security to cause to be safely kept.” The security taken is by recognizance of the party and his sureties, which can be forfeited on conviction of any offence which is a breach of the conditions of the recognizance.
The procedure under the act of 1360 and the commission^ is usually described as exhibiting articles of the peace or swearing the peace. The High Court (King’s Bench Division) has the same power as justices in quarter sessions. This procedure is in practice superseded in England, so far as concerns courts of summary jurisdiction, by an equivalent but more modern procedure (42 & 43 Viet. c. 49, s. 25). Recognizances ordered under these enactments cannot be forfeited or as it is termed estreated without an order of court made upon proof of breach of the conditions, or of a conviction involving such breach. The procedure for estreats is governed by the Levy of Fines Acts 1822 and 1833, and by 16 & 17 Viet. c. 30, s. 2.
There is also a general jurisdiction on conviction of misdemeanour to put the offender under recognizances to keep the peace and (or) be of good behaviour in addition to or in substitution for other punishment. This power is specifically applied by the Criminal Law Consolidation Acts of 1861 to all indictable misdemeanours punishable under these acts, and power is given to put persons convicted of any felony (not capital) punishable under the acts under a recognizance to keep the peace. On refusal to enter into recognizances as above, the court may order imprisonment for the refusal, limited in cases within the acts of 1861 to twelve months, and in cases within the act of 1879 to six months.
The recognizances above described may be described as a form of punishment or a judicial security for good conduct. Recognizances are, however, most used with reference to proceedings before conviction and judgment. In preliminary inquiries into indictable offences the inquiring justices take recognizances to ensure the attendance of the accused if liberated during any adjournment, and on committal for trial take the recognizances of the accused (if allowed bail) to attend the court of trial and take his trial, and of the prosecutor and the witnesses for the prosecution or defence to attend and prosecute or give evidence. As to witnesses this power was first given in 1554 (1 Ph. & M. c. 13). The procedure is regulated by the Indictable Offences Act 1848 (11 & 12 Viet, c. 42) as amended in 1867 (30 & 31 Viet. c. 35) and the forms of recognizance are scheduled to the act of 1848. In the case of inquisitions of murder or manslaughter taken before a coroner a similar procedure is followed (Coroners Act 1887, 50 Sc 51 Viet, c. 71, s. 5). The recognizances taken are returnable under penalty to the court of trial, which orders their estreat in the event of breach of the conditions.
Similar powers as to the recognizances of persons prosecuted summarily are given by the Summary Jurisdiction Acts 1848 and 1879; and in the event of appeals to quarter sessions or by special case to the High Court from courts of summary jurisdiction, recognizances or security are required from the appellant (42 Sc 43 Viet. c. 49, ss. 31, 33). On the transfer of indictments from inferior to superior courts recognizances to pay the costs on conviction are also required (Crown Office Rules, 1906). In certain cases the police have authority to give bail to accused persons on their entering into a recognizance; and governors of prisons are allowed to release prisoners on bail on compliance with the terms on which it is allowed by the committing justices.
By the Land Charges Act 1900 (63 Sc 64 Viet. c. 26, s. 2 (1) a recognizance, whether obtained or entered into on behalf of the Crown or otherwise, does not operate as a charge on land or on any interest on land or on the unpaid purchase money for any land, unless a writ or order for the purpose of enforcing it is registered under s. 5 of the Land Charges, &c., Act 1888 (51 Sc 52 Viet. c. 51) in the office of the Land Registry. This enactment is clearly applicable to receivers’ recognizances, supra; and on purchases of land search is made for registered recognizances and an official certificate can be obtained affirming or negativing the existence of a registered entry (Conveyancing Act 1882, s. 2). By s. 30 of the Bankruptcy Act 1883, a discharge in bankruptcy does not release the debtor from debts on a recognizance unless the Treasury certifies in writing its consent to the discharge.
By ss. 32, 34 of the Forgery Act 1861, it is made felony to forge recognizances, and to acknowledge them in the name of another without lawful authority is also felony (24 Sc 25 Viet. c. 98).
In Scotland the place of recognizances is filled by cautions; a caution in “ law-burrows ” corresponds very nearly to a recognizance to keep the peace.
In the United States recognizances are used for much the same purposes as in England.    (W. F. C.)
RECONNAISSANCE (from Fr. reconnaître, to recognize, Lat. recognoscere), a military term denoting the reconnoitring or examination of an enemy’s position or movements, or of a tract of ground. Reconnaissances naturally vary indefinitely according to the purposes for which they are undertaken. A topographical reconnaissance is practically a survey of a tract of country or route, comprising both a map and a report as to its advantages and disadvantages. All reconnoitring work of this character is done by officers with small patrols, escorts or assistants. Strategical reconnaissance is performed by contact squadrons, which send forward officers and patrols to find the enemy. Tactical reconnaissance falls to the lot of troops of all arms, whether in contact with the enemy or for self-protection. A reconnaissance by a large force of all arms with the idea of provoking an enemy into showing his hand, if necessary by fighting, is called a reconnaissance in force.
RECORD (Lat. recordari, to recall to mind, from cort heart or mind), a verb or noun used in various senses, all derived from the original one of preserving something permanently in memory. In this article, however, we are only concerned with documentary records, or archives. In its accurate sense a record is a document regularly drawn up for a legal or administrative purpose and preserved in proper custody to perpetuate the memory of the transaction described in it; for the most part it forms a link in a complicated process, and unless the connexion between it and the other documents making up the process has been preserved, a portion of its meaning will have perished. The first care, therefore, of the custodian of records should be to preserve this connexion, where it exists. In the majority of countries a previous task awaits him; it has been his duty to collect and arrange his documents. There are few countries in which records have not passed through a period of neglect; each office of state has kept or rather neglected its own papers; each court of justice has been the keeper of its own records; the student has been paralysed by a multitude of repositories among which he vainly sought the documents he required. To this stage two systems have succeeded; the system of centralization both of records and of
staff; and the system under which the records are left in local repositories and the staff is centralized. There are of course countries which cannot be brought under either of these formulae. But for the most part it will be found that the second system has prevailed; there arc a central office for records of state, provincial offices for legal records and those of local administration, town offices for municipal records, and a staff of archivists depending more, or less strictly upon the central office. In England the first system has been preferred; almost all the records that can be collected have been gathered into the central office. In the future, indeed, it is inevitable that collections of administrative records should grow up for each county; but there is at present no means of ensuring their arrangement and preservation. Many towns possess old and valuable collections of municipal archives, and over these also the central office has no control. It would be absurd to affirm that such control is needed for the preservation of the documents; but it is a curious fact that the English government, which has centralized records more freely than any other, should have refrained from establishing any system of administration for records in general. The following article is intended to give a full account of the administration and nature of the records of Great Britain, and brief notices of those of other countries concerning which information is obtainable. It may be noticed that the directory of the learned world published by Triibner at Strassburg under the title Minerva will be found a useful guide to the situation and staff of repositories of records.
England.
The most important repository of English records is the Public Record Office, Chancery Lane, London, established under the Act i & 2 Viet., c. 94. The head of the office is the Master of the Rolls for the time being; and the staff consists of the deputy-keeper, secretary, assistant-keepers and clerks, with a subordinate staff.
Until the establishment of this office, the records of the various courts of law and government offices yere stored in separate places, mostly of an unsuitable nature, whose contents were inaccessible and unknown. The Tower of London contained the records of the Chancery, which w'ere kept in fair order; the records of the Exchequer were scattered in many places, chiefly unsuitable; and other collections were almost as unfortunately bestowed: the only attempt to provide a special place of custody was made in the 17th century, when the State Paper Office was set up as a place of deposit for the papers of the secretaries of state. From time to time efforts were made, chiefly by means of committees of the House of Lords, to procure reforms in the custody of documents whose value was well understood. In the reign of Queen Anne, an attempt was made by Thomas Rymer to publish in the Foedera such documents as could be found bearing upon foreign politics; and this drew fresh attention to the question of custody. In 1731 the disastrous fire in the Cottonian Library produced a committee of the House of Commons and another report. But it was not until 1800 that any serious steps were taken. In that year a committee of the House of Commons presented a valuable report dealing with all the public records in repositories in England and Scotland. The result of this committee wr as the appointing of a royal commission charged with the arrangement and publication of the public records and the control of all public repositories. This commission was renew'ed from year to year and did not expire until 1837. It fell partly because of internal dissensions, but principally owing to gross extravagance and almost complete neglect of its duty, so far as the arrangement and custody 01 the records was concerned. The publications sanctioned by it are often badly designed and badly executed; but their most prominent characteristic was their expense. To this commission succeeded the Public Record Office, whose constitution has already been described. The first duty of the new office was the establishment of a central repository into which the scattered collections of records could be gathered; and the preparation of manuscript inventories of the documents so obtained. In 1851 the construction of the central repository was begun; and with the completion of each portion ot it further groups of records were brought in. At first only those collections specified in the act of parliament were dealt with; but in 1852 the State Paper Office was placed under the control of the Master of the Rolls, and its contents removed to the Public Record Office. Other government departments in turn transferred to the same keeping papers not in current use; and at present the only important collections of papers not so treated are those of the India Office and the Privy Council Office, which are still kept apart.
The publications of the Record Office are of three kinds: reports, lists and indexes, and calendars. The reports are the annual reports of the Deputy Keeper, and now deal merely with the aaministrative work of the office; up to 1889 they also contained, in the form of appendices, inventories and detailed descriptions of various classes of records. In the present article these reports are referred to by number. The lists and indexes are either inventories of special classes with more or less detail, or indexes to the contents of certain documents grouped for that purpose; they are here cited by their number. The calendars are volumes containing full abstracts intended to make the consultation of the original document unnecessary except for critical purposes; they are equipped with full indexes. The contents of the Record Office are classified for the most part under the collections in which they were found. For a general account of the whole, see S. R. Scargill-Bird’s Hand-book to the Public Records (3rd ed. 1908). No student can afford to neglect C. Gross's Sources and Literature of English History from the Earliest Times to about 148J.which[contains much information as to books and articles based upon English records.
We may now turn to the documents themselves, under the following heads:—
Exchequer Records.—The records of the administrative and judicial sides of the Exchequer (g.v.) are here described under, its several divisions.
(1 )U pper Exchequer,or Exchequer of Audit.—(a)Lord Treasurer's Remembrancer's Office, or office of final audit. The result of the final audit is recorded in duplicate on the Pipe and Chancellor's Rolls. These consist of a solitary {Pipe) roll for 31 Henry L, and a duplicate series extending from 2 Henry II. to 2 William IV. The Record Commission has printed the following rolls: Pipe Rolls, 31 Henry L, 2-4 Henry II., 1 Richard I.; Chancellor's Rolls, 3 John. The Pipe Roll Society has printed the Pipe Rolls for 5-24 Henry II.
Foreign Rolls or Rolls of Accounts.—These contain the records of the preliminary audit of accounts other than county accounts of the sheriffs; they run from 42 Edward III. to modern times: closely connected w'ith them are the Enrolled Accounts, which deal with the more important accountants separately. It should be noted that the final audit is not recorded upon either Foreign Rolls or Enrolled Accounts, but must be sought on the Pipe Roll, unless the accountant is found to be quit or to have a balance due to him. The Record Office has published a classified list (No. XL) of the Foreign and Enrolled Accounts taken from all the foregoing rolls of audit, but omitting the accounts of Customs and Subsidies.
Declared Accounts.—A list (No. II.) of these records with an introduction has been published by the Record Office. The series begins in the i6th century, and from the 17th century is fairly complete.
Originalia Rolls (20 Henry III. to 1837), or extracts from the Chancery Rolls communicated to the Exchequer for its information and guidance. Latin abstracts of the rolls from Henry III. to Edward III. were printed by the Record Commission as Abbrevialio Rotulorum Originatium (2 vols. folio).
Lord Treasurer's Remembrancer's Memoranda Rolls.—These contain the letters received and issued by the Exchequer and notes of the general business of the department. They run from i Henry III. to 1848. Edward Jones’s Index to the Records contains a few scattered references to them; and many extracts will be found in the notes to Thomas Madox’s History of the Exchequer.
Judicial.—The only judicial proceedings on the Lord Treasurer's Remembrancer's side are in cases connected directly with the revenue. These are enrolled upon the Memoranda Rolls; and for the period 35 Charles II. to William IV. there are Order Books.
(6) King's Remembrancer's Office, or office of preliminary audit. The most important financial records of this branch of the Exchequer are the class known as “ Exchequer K. R. accounts, &c.,” whicn comprise vouchers and audited accounts of expenditure. Of similar accounts relating to receipts, the Escheator’s accounts have been listed in the 10th Report; but the inquisitions there described as filed with the accounts as vouchers are nowr  kept separately, and are described with the Chancery Inquisitions in the calendars. Accounts and vouchers relating to Subsidies and Customs are at present only described in manuscript (see below' under Special Collections).
King's Remembrancer's Memoranda Rolls (i Henry III. to 13 Victoria).—These run parallel with those of the Lord Treasurer and to a large extent contain the same matter. Adam Martin’s Index to Exchequer Records contains a certain number of references to them.
In the reign of Edward VI., returns were made into the Exchequer by commissioners appointed to take inventories of Church Goods. Volumes of these for several counties are being published by the Alcuin Club (sec M61y et Bishop, Bibliographic gtntrale des \nven-taires iinprimte, vol. i. p. 245).
Judicial.—The court of Exchequer on the King’s Remembrancer’s side was a court of equity held before the lord treasurer, the chancellor of the^ exchequer and the barons. The usual records of a court of equity. Bills and Answers, Decrees and Orders, Affidavits and other subsidiary documents exist for it. Martin’s Index to Exchequer Records contains references to the Decrees and Orders.
Of the proceedings under special commissions issuing from this court a descriptive catalogue (Elizabeth to Victoria) has been published in the 38th Report. Depositions taken by commission (Elizabeth to George III.) are catalogued in the Reports 38-42. A catalogue of the later depositions exists in manuscript.
(2)    Lower Exchequer, or Exchequer of Receipt.—The principal financial records of this department are the Receipt and Issue Rolls showing the payments made to and by the Exchequer. The former consist of an exceptional roll for 14 John and a series from Henry III. to George III. The latter run from Henry III. to Edward IV. and from Elizabeth to George III. A translation of the issue rolls (2) for 44 Edward III. was published by F. Devon; who also published a volume of extracts from the issue rolls of the reign of James I., and another volume of extracts from the rolls for the period 41 Henry 111. to 39 Henry VI. The other records of this department are very numerous.
(3)    Exchequer of Pleas.—Thejbarons of the Exchequer without the lord treasurer had a court of their own, where process took place by common law. A list of the Plea Rolls of this court (20 Henry
III. to 1855) will be found at p. 64 of the Record Office List of Plea Rolls (No. IV.). A partial index to the tithe-suits on these rolls is contained in the 2nd Report.
(4)    Exchequer of the Jews.—Suits between Jews, or in which Jews were concerned, were tried before a special subordinate court. The Plea Rolls (3 Henry III. to 4 Edward I.) are listed in the Record Office List of Plea Rolls. For specimens see Select Pleas, Starrs and Records of the Jewish Exchequer, edited for the Selden Society and the Jewish Historical Society of England by J. M. Rigg.
(5)    First Fruits and Tenths.—After the breach with Rome, the crown obtained a new source of revenue in the first fruits due to the pope from every holder of a benefice upon appointment, and from the tenths payable during his tenure of it. For a few years under Henry VIII. a special office administered this revenue. At the accession of Mary the business was transferred to a department of the Exchequer., The principal records are the following: Bishop's Certificates of Institutions to Benefices; Composition books giving the names of incumbents and the sums paid by them in lieu of first fruits; and documents relating to the valuation of livings. The most important entries touching valuation were printed by John Ecton in the Liber Decimarum (1711), which has passed through many editions under the titles of Thesaurus Rerum Ecclesiasticarum and Liber Regis. The first fruits and tenths are now transferred to Queen Anne’s Bounty, and are managed by that office.
(6)    Valor Ecclesiasticus.—In 26 Henry VIII. a commission was issued for a valuation of all ecclesiastical property. The returns were made into the Exchequer and consist of eighteen volumes and three portfolios of rolls. Of these abstracts were made in three volumes known as Liber Valorum or King's Books, and a portion was copied in two volumes known as Liber Regis. The original returns for the diocese of Ely, most of that of London and part of those of Salisbury, Lincoln, Durham and York are not now known to exist,^ and are very imperfectly represented by the abstracts and copies mentioned above. From these materials the Record Commission compiled six volumes folio known as the Valor Ecclesiasticus provided with maps and indexes. The introduction and general map were^ published later (1834) ¡n a separate octavo volume; but some copies were struck off in folio and inserted into Vol. I., which was published in 1810.
(7)    Court of Augmentations.—This office was instituted to administer the property of the suppressed monasteries and the revenues of the duchy of Cornwall. The records consist of the muniments of the suppressed houses taken over with them and of documents connected with their actual seizure and subsequent administration (for the former, see Special Collections below; the latter are in great part calendared in the Letters and Papers relating to the Reign of Henry VIII.).
There was also a judicial side of the office, in which the proceedings were by bill and answer. In 38 Henry VIII. this court absorbed an earlier one known as the Court of General Surveyors of the King’s Lands, which had been set up in 33 Henry VIII. A calendar of the decrees of the court will be found in the 30th Report. The court of augmentations was merged in the Exchequer in 1 Mary.
Chancery.—The^ records of the chancery are here treated in two divisions, administrative and judicial.
(1) Chancery Administrative.—These are either enrolments, of letters issued under the great seal, documents forming part of the process of issuing such letters, or documents drawn up for the information of the chancery.
Enrolments.—The Charter Rolls (1 John to 8 Henry VIII.) contain the enrolments of the most formaljetters. The Record Commission published one volume folio containing a transcript of the rolls for the reign of John; and a badly designed and executed calendar entitled Calendarium Rotulorum Chartarum. The Record Office has published three volumes of a complete calendar of the Charter Rolls from 11 Henry III. The Patent Rolls (3 John to the present day) contain enrolments of less formal letters addressed generally. The Record Commission published one volume folio containing a transcript of the rolls for the reign of John, with a valuable itinerary of that king. The Record Office nas also printed in full the rolls for the period 1-16 Henry III. From this point over 30 volumes of a Calendar have been published, and the remaining gaps in the( series are being closed. For these gaps the Record Commission’s Calendarium Rotulorum Patentium is still useful, but only refers to a small proportion of the matter on the rolls! The rolls for the reign of Henry VIII. are calendared in the Letters and Papers of Henry VIII. The Close Rolls (6 John to the present time) contain the enrolments of letters directed to specified persons and also enrolments of deeds made according to statute or for safe custody. The Record Commission published two volumes folio containing a transcript of the rolls for the period from 6 John to 11 Henry III. The Record Office has also published several volumes of rolls for the reign of Henry III. From the reign of Edward I. eighteen volumes of a calendar have appeared. The Fine Rolls (1 John to 23 Charles 1.) contain the record of judicial writs issued under the great seal with a note of the fine or fee paid ; also of letters of appointment to offices and letters relating to the administration of the feudal incidents of tenure. The Record Commission published a transcript of the rolls for the reign of John under the title Rotuli de Oblatis et Finibus; for the reign of Henry III. they also published two volumes of Excerpta e Rotulis Finium consisting of the entries relating to the feudal incidents. There were also other rolls containing letters issued under the great seal relating to special countries and subjects. The most important of these are here mentioned. French Rolls, Gascon Rolls, and Norman Rolls deal with the affairs of the English dominions in France and with relations with that countiy. A catalogue of many of the entries on these rolls down to the reign of Edward IV. was published by Thomas Carte in two volumes folio. Of the French Rolls (16 Edw. III. to 26 Charles II.) those for the reign of Henry V. are briefly calendared in the 44th Report; and those for the reign of Henry VI. in the 48th Report. Of the Gascon Rolls (38 Henry III. to 7 Edw. IV.) the earlier rolls have been printed in full in the Documents inédits published by the French government under the care of MM. Francisque-Michel and Bémont. Of the broken series of Norman Rolls (1 John to 10 Henry V.) those for the reign of John and that for 5 Henry V. have been printed in full in one volume by the# Record Commission ; to the remainder a calendar will be found in the 41st Report. The books here mentioned deal with some rolls now placed in other classes.
Other rolls contain letters under the great seal relating to Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Of these the Record Commission printed the Scottish Rolls (19 Edward I. to 8 Henry VIII.) in full, omitting the numerous letters of protection contained in them. For the Welsh and Irish Rolls there is only a very partial calendar in Ay Ioffe's Calendar of Ancient ·Charters. The Roman and Almain Rolls have been used in Foedera, and many entries from the other chancery rolls will be found there. The Liberate Rolls (2 John to 14 Henry VI.) contain the enrolments of writs for the issue of money out of the Exchequer. The rolls for 2-4 John have been printed in full by the Record Commission.
Documents forming Part of the Process of issuing Letters under the Great Seal.^These are known as Chancery warrants, and consist of Privy Seals y Signed bills and other documents forming steps in the process. Series I. of these documents extends to tne end of the reign of Richard III., and Series II. to the end of the reign of Henry VIII. ; Series III. ends with the reign of Anne, and Series IV. with that of William IV., while Series V. is still in progress. Series I. and II. are arranged in chronological order (Series I. being also classified); the remainder are in monthly bundles. The warrants for the reign of Henry VIII. are calendared in the Letters and Papers of Henry VIII. ; those for the first seven years of Charles I. are calendared in the 43rd Report. With these may be placed the Inquisitions ad quod damnum. Of these the Record Office has published a descriptive list (Nos. XVII. and XXII.) for the period 28 Henry III. to 2 Richard III.
Documents drawn up for the Information of the Chancery.—The most important of these are the inquiries held under writs issued from the chancery. The first series of these (Henry III. to Richard III.) is now arranged in three classes, Inquisitions Post Mortem including analogous documents relating to the feudal tenure of land, Criminal Inquisitions and Miscellaneous Inquisitions. The Record Office has published three volumes of a calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem. The Record Commission calendars refer to the old arrangements of these inquiries into two series, known as Inquisitions Post Mortem &c. and Inquisitions ad quod damnum &c., a distinction of title which concealed the identity of the documents described. Both calendars contain many inaccuracies and omit much useful information. To supply some of these defects for the period Henry 111. to Edward I. the Record Office published the Calendarium Genealogicum, but this work does not attempt to deal with the lands mentioned in the inquiries. In the second series of these inquiries the three classes of inquisitions are all placed together. One volume of a calendar to the Inquisitions Post Mortem for the reign of Henry VII. has appeared. Certificates of Gilds are returns made under the statute of 12 Richard 11. Those in English have been printed by J. and L. Toulmin Smith for the Early English Text Society. Charitable Uses: a list (No. X.) of all inauisitions and decrees of commissioners
appointed under two statutes of Elizabeth to examine and rectify abuses of charitable bequests has been published by the Record Office. Forests (Chancery) contain perambulations and proceedings before the justices in eyre of the forest. The ^perambulations for certain counties have been printed by G. J. Turner in Select Pleas of the Forest (Selden Society).
Scottish Documents.—Five rolls relating to the policy of Edward I. towards Scotland. The first two contain the proceedings touching the claims to the crown of Scotland and are printed in Foedera, vol. ii. p. 762 (Record edition); the remaining three, known as Ragman Rolls, contain in triplicate the submissions of the Scottish nobility to Edward 1., and were printed by the Bannatyne Club in 1834. Other chancery documents relating to Scotland are described in J. Bain's Calendar of Documents relating to Scotland. Most of these together with the earlier Forest proceedings are included in the Miscellanea of the Chancery, which contains numerous other detached documents and rolls. Many of those relating to foreign affairs are printed in the Foedera.
(2) Chancery Judicial.—These may be divided into Proceedings, or Bills and Answers, &c., filed by the parties; Decrees and Orders of the court; and Affidavits and other documents connected with the course of the action. The series known as Early Chancery Proceedings (Richard II. to Philip and Mary), comprising documents of all three classes, is arranged roughly in chronological order. The Record Office has published three volumes of a descriptive list (Nos. XII., XVI. and XX.) of the whole of this series; and the first two bundles have been printed in full in the Record Commission's Calendar of Proceedings in Chancery, Elizabeth; other specimens are printed in Select Pleas of the Chancery (Selden Society), edited by W. P. Baildon. For the reign of Elizabeth the Proceedings are arranged alphabetically under the plaintiff's name in two series. Scries I. is calendared in the Record Commission volumes already mentioned for Series II.; the Record Office has published a descriptive list (Nos.VII. and Vff I.) covering the years 1558-1621. To the Bills and Answers of the reign of Charles If. Messrs Phillimore and Fry have published in the Index Library of the British Record Society an index taken from Topham’s manuscript index in the Record Office. The same society has reproduced in an alphabetical form an index to the proceedings in Reynardsori's division for the years 1694-1714. These last indexes contain only the surnames of the parties, without reference to the nature of the suit. Decrees and Orders (36 Henry VIII. to the present time) are the entry-books of the orders of the court; with tnern may be classed the Reports and Certificates of the masters and chief clerks. The Affidavits, &c., date from 1611.
The chancellor formerly had a common law jurisdiction relating to certain matters touching feudal incidents ami tenures, to repeals of letters patent, and to actions upon recognizances acknowledged in chancery or concerning officers of the court. No printed means of referring to these records exist.
Court of King's Bench.—The principal records of this court arc the rolls recording its proceedings and judgments, of which classified lists are given in the Record Office List of Plea Rolls (No. IV.), under the following heads. Curia Regis Rolls (5 Richard I. to 56 Henry III.) include all the rolls of the king's court with the •exception of a few Eyre Rolls. Of these the Record Commission printed those for 6, 9, 10 Richard I. and^ 1 John; and also published in the Abbreviatio Placitorum certain abstracts from a portion of the pleas on these rolls made in the 17th century. For specimens see Selden Society volumes, Select Civil Pleas, edited by W. P. Baildon, and Select Pleas of the Crown, edited by F. W. Maitland, who has also edited for the Pipe Roll Society four rolls of the reign of Richard I. From the end of the reign of Henry III. the rolls of the king's bench and those of the common pleas (see below) have been separated. The former, named Coram Rege Rolls (1 Edward 1. to 13 William III.), divide from 1 Anne into two portions, Judgment Rolls, containing pleas^ between private persons, and Crown Rolls, containing crown business. References to some pleas on the Coram Rege Rolls will be found in the Abbreviatio Placitorum; the complete roll for 25 Edward I. has been printed by the British Record Society.
Assize Rolls, &c.—Under this head arc grouped rolls containing the proceedings before justices in eyre, of assize, of oyer and terminer, of gaol delivery (a few) and before justices sent on special commission. References to some of these will be found in the Abbreviatio Placitorum; and specimens in the Selden Society volumes already mentioned. The Eyre Roll for Gloucestershire, 5 Henry III., has been published by F. W. Maitland. The pleadings taken under writs of Quo Warranto during the period Edward I. to Edward III. were published by the Record Commission. For specimens of Coroners Rolls (Heniy III. to Henry VI.) see the Selden Society's volume edited by C. Gross. Baga de Secretis (since 17 Ed. IV.) contains the proceedings in trials for treason or felony held before the court of king*s bench or special commissioners. An inventory and calendar wall be found in the 3rd, 4th and 5th reports.
Court of Common Pleas.—The Plea Rolls of this court, known as De Banco Rolls, run from 1 Edward 1., before which date pleas before justices of the common bench form part of the Curia Regis
Rolls, to 24 Henry VI1., from which date the Plea Rolls are known as Common Rolls. But in 25 Elizabeth all common recoveries and enrolments of deeds were transferred to a new roll called the Recovery Roll, the series of which extends to 1837. In the Year Books edited for the Rolls Series by L. 0. Pike, and those edited for the Selden Society by F. W. Maitland, the cases reported’ have, when possible, been traced on to the De Banco Rolls and extracts from those rolls printed. Feet of Fines (up to 1835) are the official part of the triplicate document constituting the complete fine. Those for the period 7 Richard I. to 16 John have been printed by the Record Commission for the counties Bedfordshire to Dorset in alphabetical order. Four volumes printed for the Pipe Roll Society cover the years down to 10 Richard I. for all counties. The feet of fines are arranged in counties year by year up to the reign of Henry VIII. Afterwards they are arranged term by term in counties. Notes of Fines (since Edward I.) are the records of an earlier stage in the procedure; Concords of Fines (since 1559) form another stage; but to neither of these are there printed means of reference.
Court of Star Chamber.—The relation between the king's council sitting as a judicial body and the Court of Star Chamber set up by the act of 3 Henry VII., c. 1, is matter of controversy. The records of this court are nearly all of later date than this aci. They consist of Bills, Answers, Depositions and similar documents, with a very few Decrees and Orders. The Record Office has
fiublished a descriptive list (No. XIII.) of a portion of these records; or specimens see Selden Society, Select Cases in the Star Chamber, 14T7-i$oq, edited by 1. S. Leadam.
Court of Requests.—The origin of this court and the manner in which it died out at the time of the Civil War are alike uncertain. The records that remain are of two kinds, Proceedings and Books. Of the former the Record Office has published a descriptive list (No. XXI.); and specimens will be found in Select Cases in the Court of Requests, edited for the Selden Society by I. S. Leadam. The Books contain among other matters the Decrees and Orders of the court.
Parliamentary Records.—The proceedings of parliament were recorded either on a roll prepared for each session, or on detached documents and petitions made up into sessional files. The files have now disappeared, although transcripts of some still exist, and in many cases their constituents can be traced among the Ancient Petitions (see below under Special Collections). The rolls known as Parliament Rolls form a broken series, 18 Edward I. to 48-49 Victoria. The rolls for Edward I. and Edward II. arc among the Exchequer records, and the remainder are in the chancery. Of these rolls and files, and of certain pleadings found in the records of the King's Remembrancer, the Record Commission published what was meant to be a complete reprint. But the editors relied partly upon transcripts and partly upon original documents, and it is often difficult to determine the sources from which they drew. So prepared, the Rolls of Parliament (6 vols.) cover the period from 6 Edward I. to 1 Mary. The roll for 33 Edward I., unknown to them, has been edited (Rolls Series, vol. 98) by F. \Y. Maitland, wr ith a valuable introduction and appendices; rolls for 18 Edward I. and 12 Edward II. are printed in H. Coles’ Documents Illustrative of English History. The Parliament Roll includes enrolments of statutes among its contents. But from Edward I. to Edward IV. the statutes after receiving the royal assent were also enrolled upon the Statute Roll (chancery), of which only six rolls now^ remain. From these rolls and other sources the Record Commission prepared the volumes knowm as Statutes of the Realm on principles described in the introduction to that work. Unfortunately the editors made use of early printed texts, and translations based upon the inferior texts contained in Exchequer KJi. Miscellaneous Books 9, 10 and 11, and so diminished the value of their wf ork. The Statutes of the Realm extend to the end of the reign of Queen Anne. Since then public general acts have been published in many forms; private acts ceased to be enrolled upon the Parliament Rolls during the 16th century; the originals are preserved in the House of Lords. The Record Office contains detached documents relating to parliamentary proceeding known as Exchequer Parliamentary and Chancery Parliamentary, but neither class has yet taken a final form.
State Papers.—This class contains the documents belonging to the offices of the secretaries of state, formerly deposited in the place of custody called the State Paper Office. This office was established about the year 1578, but the first attempt to arrange its contents seems to have been due to Sir Thomas Wilson, w ho in the reign of James I. divided the papers into two classes, Domestic and Foreign, to which at a later date the class of Colonial Papers was added. These series all come to an end at the year 1782, at wr hich date the modem history of the office of Secretary 01 State begins.
Domestic.—Calendars of these papers have been published for the period 1547“ 167b, with special volumes dealing with the papers of the Committee for Advance of Money (1642-1656), and of the Committee for Compounding (1643-1660). Another senes of volumes begins with the year 1689, and a third extends from 1760 to 1775; these last are called Home Office Papers, but are in bo way different
in character from the State Papers Domestic. The Domestic Papers ' relating exclusively to Ireland have been calendared under the title of State Papers, Ireland, for the years 1509-1601 and 1603-1665, with a special volume dealing with the papers concerning Adventurers for Land. From 1670 these papers are calendared in the Domestic volumes.
Scotland.—Originally there were in the State Paper Office two sets of papers relating to Scotland, State Papers Domestic, Border Papers, containing papers concerning the Council of the North and the Wardens of the Marches; and State Papers Foreign, Scotland, before the union of the two crowns. The first calendar of these was a Calendar of State Papers, Scotland, 1500-1605, containing brief notes of all the State Papers Foreign, Scotland, and of many of the Border Papers which were removed from their places without any record of the removal. Next came the Calendar of State Papers Foreign, in which were included apparently all the Border Papers for the period covered which had escaped the previous raid; notes, however, were made of the papers so taken. Out of the original 75 volumes of Border Papers only 36 remained. At a later date the papers drawn for the Foreign Calendar were restored and now form the first 19 volumes of the series, while the 36 volumes originally remaining have now become the final 23. At the same time the State Papers Foreign, Scotland, were annexed, and became State Papers Domestic, Scotland. In their present arrangement the Border Papers have been calendared in the following volumes: vols. 1-19 in the State Papers Foreign 1547-1560; vols. 20-42 in the Scottish General Register Office Calendar of Border Papers 1560-1605. The State Papers Domestic, Scotland, from 1547 onwards, are being fully calendared in the Scottish General Register Office Calendar of Scottish Papers with other material. Those from 1509 to 1547 are dealt with in the Letters and Papers of Henry VIII. (see below, Special Collections). A list of these three Classes has been published (No. III.).
Foreign.—Calendars of the State Papers Foreign have been published for the period 1547-1580. A few of these papers are also calendared in the first volume of the State Papers Spanish (see below under Spain). The Record Office has published a list of the State Papers Foreign (No. XIX.).
Colonial.—These papers are calendared in two sets, an ** East Indies’* (1513-1634, which has been continued to 1639 by the India Office in Miss E. B. Sainsbury’s Court Minutes of the East India Company) and an “ America and West Indies ” (1574-1693, in progress).
Departmental Records.—From time to time all the government departments, with the exception of the India Office, deposit such papers as they wish to preserve in the Public Record Office; thus the Treasury, Home Office, Foreign Office, Colonial Office, Admiralty, War Office, Local Government Board and Board of Trade have all placed important papers in the care of the -Master of the Rolls. A calendar of the earlier Treasury Papers, which extends from 1660 to 1668 and 1720 to 1745 has been published; also a list of the Admiralty Records (No. XVII.). For each department a limiting date is fixed from time to time; documents before that time are open to students; later ones arc only accessible under special conditions.
Surordinate and Independent Jurisdictions.—Palatinate of Durham.—For the earlier records see G. T. Lapslcy’s County Palatine of Durham (Harvard Historical Series, vol. viii.), pp. 327-337. The letters sent out from the bishops’ chancery are enrolled on the Cursitors’ Records, Nos. 29 to 184. They arc calendared in Reports 31 to 37 and 40. One of the registers (Bishop Kellawc’s) has been printed in full in the Rolls scries (No. 62) with additions from the register of Bishop Bury. The Cursitors' Records also include seven bundles of Inquisitions Post Mortem (Nos. 164-180), calendared in the 44th Report; and a volume (No. 2) contains transcripts of similar documents, calendared in the 45th Report. The records of the Exchequer of Durham, though deposited in the Public Record Office, are treated as the private records of the Ecclesiastical Commission, and are only accessible with a special permit. To the judicial records the only printed means of reference is the list of Judgment Rolls (20 Henry VII. to 7-8 Victoria) in the Record Office list of Plea Rolls (No. IV.)
Palatinate of Chester.—The letters sent out from the chancery are enrolled upon the Chester Recognizance Rolls (1 Edward II. to 34 Charles II. with a few rolls down to 1 William IV.) calendared in Reports 36-37 and 39. The financial records of the Exchequer of Chester are listed among the Ministers’ Accounts (List No. V.) of the county of Chester. The Inquisitions post Mortem and ad quod damnum (Edward 111. to Charles I.) are indexed in the 25th report. The judicial records consist of Pleas in thé Exchequer, a court of equity. Its records are Bills and Answers (Henry VIII. to George IV.), calendared in the 25th Report up to Philip and Mary; and Decrees and Orders. The court of the justices of Chester was at common law; its Plea Rolls (44 Henry III. to 1 William IV.), with a separate series for Flint (from 12 Edward I.) are listed among the Plea Rolls (List No. IV.). The Deeds, Inquisitions and Writs of Dower upon these rolls for the period Henry 111. to Henry VI11. are calendared in the 26th~30th Reports without an index. The Assize Rolls for the counties of Chester and Flint and for the
honour of Macclesfield are listed among the other-assize rolls (List No. IV.).    ;
Wales.—The following are the principal records of the princh pality of Wales: Ministers' Accounts and Court Rolls, including those of the principality and of the honours and manors of the Lords Marchers, listed in Lists Nos. V. and VI. Of the judicial records of the Great Sessions of Wales, set up by the act 34 ¿.35 Henry VIII., c. 26, the Plea Rolls are listed in the list of Plea Rolls (No. IV). For an account of the Court of the Marches in Wales, see C. A. Skeel’s The Council in the Marches of Wales.
The Duchy and Palatinate of Lancaster.—The duchy of Lancaster comprises all the estates of the duke of Lancaster; the palatinate is limited to the county of Lancaster. The records of the palatinate, transferred to the Public Record Office from Lancaster castle, related to the county and are either enrolments of writs or of a judicial nature. The records of the duchy, transferred from the office of the duchy at Westminster, include similar records and others dealing with the manorial and financial records of all the estates within and without the county. For the Duchy Records see the detailed list (No. XIV.), where the means of reference to this collection are fully described. Of the Palatinate Records the enrolments of writs are classified as Patent and Close Rolls. The former, a broken series from 5 John of Gaunt to 21 Henry VII., arc calendared in the 40th Report; the latter (in 3 rolls, a broken scries, II Henry IV. to 9 Edward IV.) in the 37th Report; but certain enrolments of the palatinate are among the duchy records. The judicial records of the chancery are not calendared; but the proceedings by way of appeal from that court to the Duchy Chamber at Westminster are dealt with in the duchy list. Proceedings under common law include Plea Rolls (2 Henry JV. to 11 Victoria) listed in the list of Plea Rolls (No. IV.) ; and for criminal proceedings there are palatinate Assize Rolls (Henry VI. to 6 Victoria), of which there is a list in the same place. But certain rolls which were among the Duchy Records will be found apart at pages 139-140 of the same list.
Bishopric of Ely.—The act 1 & 2 Victoria, c. 94, places the records of this palatinate under the charge of the Master of the Rolls. They have never been removed to the Record Office, but remain at Ely with the episcopal records, where they can be inspectedi A valuable descriptive list has been published by Alfred Gibbons for private circulation.
Special Collections.—For the classification of the records hitherto described the knowledge preserved of their origin and purpose has been used. There exist, however, masses of records where this path is now inaccessible; these have been formed by putting together records of a similar nature eithei* in ignorance of their history or without regarding it; the justification of this course of action must be found in the special circumstances of each case. These collections are as follows :—
Ministers' Accounts are the accounts of bailiffs, receivers, and other officers managing estates, including, first, those of the duchy of Lancaster; second, accounts of crown lands filed as vouchers in the King’s Remembrancer’s Office; third, accounts of monastic? and other lands seized by the crown, or acquired by it by purchase, inheritance or marriage. A list of these accounts has been published by the Record Office (Nos. V. and VIII.) covering thé* period down to 1485. For the accounts of the duchy of Lancaster a list will be found in the 45th Report, extending to the reign of George III.
Court Rolls are records of the proceedings and profits of manorial and other private courts coming from the same sources as the Ministers’ Accounts, and closely connected with them. For a list see Record Office, Lists and Indexes, No. VI.; and for specimens Select Pleas in Manorial Courts, edited for the Selden Society by F. W. Maitland.
Ancient Deeds.—In this collection are placed all documents which appear to have formed part of a title to land, some original royal charters and other analogous records. There are five series, A, B,..C, D, and E, distinguished by their former place of custody. Documents too large for the ordinary method of packing have a double letter, e.g. A.A., and to those bearing fine seals the letter S is added, e.g. AS or AAS. There arc thus in all fifteen classes. The A classes are derived from the Treasury of Receipt, or Chapter House at Westminster, and are largely monastic; the B classes arc from the court of Augmentations’, the C classes are chancery deeds, probably deposited as exhibits in suits or for enrolments; the D classes are from the King's Remembrancer's office; and the E classes are from the Land Revenue office. In 1907 five volumes of a descriptive catalogue had been published by the Record Office.
Ancient Correspondence consists of documents which in form are rather of the nature of a letter than a writ or petition. Most of them were found detached in the chancery records, but similar documents from other sources have been added. The introduction to the Record Office List (No. XV.) contains some account of the formation of the class, and the list gives references to printed collections based upon these documents. Vol. 53 contain? letters of the Cely Family and is published (Camden Society, 3rd series, vol. i.).
Ancient Petitions.—The history of the formation of this class
is obscure; an account of it is in the Record Office Index to the class (No. I.); but see also the Introduction to F. W. Maitland’s Memoranda de Parliamento (Rolls Series, vol. 98), in which volume a number of these petitions are printed in full.
Diplomatic Documents.—In the Chapter House at Westminster was a collection of treaties and other documents connected with foreign affairs, and to these have been added other similar documents found there. Of these there is a descriptive list in the 45th and 49th Reports. A collection of so-called Diplomatic Documents from the chancery forms part of the Chancery Miscellanea.
Letters and Papers, Foreign and Domestic, of the Reign of Henry VIII,—This great collection of materials for the reign of Henry VIII. (Calendar of 20 volumes in 30) at present extends to the year 1547, and is intended to contain abstracts of all documents bearing upon that reign in the Record Office, the British Museum and other collections. Record Office documents dealt with in this Calendar have sometimes been left in their original place of custody and sometimes transferred to a series of bound volumes known as Letters and Papers, Henry VIII. References will be found in the Calendar to a previous series of State Papers of the Reign of Henry VIII., printed by a Royal Commission for printing State Papers.
Miscellaneous Books.—The many books and registers preserved in the Record Office will be found described in the Handbook. The following have been printed:—
Exchequer King’s Remembrancer Vol. 2. The Red Book of the Exchequer (Rolls Scries, No. 09).
Vol. 3. Book of Aids. (Sec Feudal Aids, published by Record Office.)
Vol. 4. Book of Knight's Fees. (Sec Feudal Aids.)
Vols. 5 & 6. Testa de Nevill; printed by the Record Commission.
Vol. 12. Liber Niger Parvus, printed by Thomas Hearne.
Vols. 13 & 14. Taxatio Ecclesiastica; printed by the Record Commission.
Vol. 17. A 16th-century transcript of an abstract of Kirkby's Quest for certain counties; used in Feudal Aids.
Vol. 24. Chartulary of Malmesbury Abbey (Rolls Series, No. 72).
Vol. 28. Chartulary of Ramsey Abbey (Rolls Series, No. 79).
Vol. 32. The Book of Common Prayer deposited under the Act of Uniformity.
Vols. 35 & 36. Accounts of the voyages of Martin Frobisher (Hakluyt’s Voyages).
Exchequer Treasury of Receipt Domesday Book.—Indexes and supplementary matter were
printed by the Record Commission. Since then facsimiles of the text or each county have been issued.
Miscellaneous Books.
Vols. 16-55. Certificates of Musters. (See Letters and Papers of the Reign of Henry VIII.)
Vol. 69. Extents of Knights’ Fees in the Honour of Richmond;
printed in Gale's Registrum Honoris de Richemond.
Vol. 87. Abstracts of Placita Coram Rege, &c.; printed in Ab-breviatio Placitorum (Record Commission).
Vol- 92. Statutes of the Order of the Garter. Cf. J. Anstis, Register     of the Order of the Garter.
Exchequer Augmentation Office Vol. 57. Rentals and Custumals of Battle Abbey (Camden Society, Series 2, vol. 41).
Vols. 179-184. Copies of Leases. Indexed in 49th Report.
Vols. 495-515. Inventories of Church Goods. For details of those printed, see Mély et Bishop, Bibliographie Générale des Inventaires Imprimés.
The following accounts of other collections of records are necessarily less detailed :—
Privy Council Office.—The registers of the Privy Council are still preserved in that office, with the exception of a few volumes which have strayed into other places. J. R. Dasent has edited for the Master of the Rolls a series of volumes containing The Acts of the Privy Council, from 1542 to 1604. The Proceedings and Ordinances of the Privy Council, jo Rich. II-33 Henry VIII., edited for the Record Commission by Sir N. Harris Nicolas, are from documents in the Cotton MSS. and from transcripts made by Rymer from documents then at the Pells Office.
India Office.—The records of the India Office are preserved there. Complete printed lists exist for the whole collection, and the following documents have been published: The First Letter Book of the East India Company, edited by Sir G. Birdwood and W. Foster; Letters received by the East India Company from its Servants in the East, edited by F. C. Danvers and W. Foster (6 vols.). The records in India may be mentioned here. Each presidency and each province keeps its own; and this is the case also with the smaller subdivisions. No printed lists appear to exist for any of the collections. The following volumes have been published: Letters, Despatches and other Papers of the Foreign Department of the Government of India, 1772-85, edited by G. W. Forrest (3 vols.,
Calcutta); Bengal 1756-1757 edited by S. C. Hill (3 vols. 1905); and Old Fort William, edited by C. R. Wilson (3 vols., 1906-7).
Ireland.
The Public Record Office of Ireland was established in 1867 by the Act 30 & 31 Viet. c. 70, when the records of the various courts of law, all wills proved in Ireland, and certain financial records, were collected into one building. The State Paper Office remains a separate, though subordinate, department in one of the towers of Dublin Castle, whence the papers are only transferred to the Record Office by special order. The Deputy Keeper of the Irish Record Office publishes yearly reports with appendices. The most important calendar published in these is that of Fiants or warrants for the issue of letters under the Great Seal, Henry VIII. toElizabeth, contained in Reports 7-9, 11-13, 15-18, with indices for each reign. A calendar of the Deeds of Christ Church, Dublin, is contained in the 20th, 23rd, 24th and 27th Reports. The Wills of the diocese of Dublin, down to the year 1800, are indexed under the names of the testators in the 26th and 30th Reports. The series of Proclamations by the lord lieutenant and council, and by the crown, which is among the records in the Record Tower of Dublin Castle, is catalogued in the 23rd and 24th Reports. Of the financial records very little has been published. In the 33rd Report there is a good account of the Books of the Treasury and Accounting Deportments from the reign of Henry VI11. Scattered entries from the Pipe Rolls (13 Henry III.-33 Edward I.) are printed in the 33rd and 35th-38th Reports. Before the establishment of the Record Office the Irish Record Commission published a Latin calendar of the Patent and Close Rolls from Henry II. to Henry VII., and an incomplete calendar in English for the years 5-35 Henry VIII. Under the authority of the Master of the Rolls a calendar was published for the period Henry VIII. to Elizabeth, upon which some severe comments will be found in J.T. Gilbert’s The History . . . of the Public Records of Ireland.
An English calendar for the reign of James I. was published by the Record Commission; and a calendar for the years 1-8 Charles I., under the authority of the Master of the Rolls. Two large folio volumes entitled Liber Hibernie should here be mentioned. The history and contents of this astounding work can be gathered from its introduction, and from an index to it in the 9th Report. Inquisitions post mortem and on attainder, for the provinces of Leinster and Ulster only, are dealt with in the Record Commission’s Inquisi-tionum in ojficio Rotulorum Cancellarie Hibernie asservatarum Reper-torium. Of strictly judicial records the Record Office has published one volume of an admirable calendar of the Justiciary Rolls (1295-1303).
Scotland.
The records of the kingdom are deposited in several places in Edinburgh. The principal repository is the General Register House, at present governed by the Act 42 & 43 Viet. c. 44. But certain records of the chancery and all the records of the court of teinds are in separate repositories. A general account of these records is given in M. Livingstone’s Guide to the Public Records of Scotland deposited in H.M. General Register House, Edinburgh, with appendices describing those contained in other repositories.
Parliamentary.—The Record Commission of Great Britain published The Acts of the Parliament of Scotland (1124-1707), a text derived from many sources described in the introductory volume; The Acts of the Lords Auditors of Causes and Complaints (1466-1494), being the proceedings of the parliamentary committee for hearing petitions; and The Acts of the Lords of Council (1478-1495), being proceedings of a similar body.
Privy Council.—The register of the Privy Council of Scotland from 1545 is in course of publication at the General Register House.
Exchequer.—The Exchequer Rolls, corresponding to the Great Roll of the English Exchequer, are being printed in full from 1264 at the General Register House; and the accounts of the Treasurer of Scotland from 1473 are being published at the same office.
Chancery.—The enrolments of letters issued under the Great Seal of Scotland are contained in twelve rolls and a series of volumes. The Record Commission printed these registers in full for the period 1306-1424; and the General Register House is continuing the publication in an abridged form.
Court of Chancery.—Only the enrolments of letters under the Great Seal are transferred to the General Register House; the remainder are preserved in the court of chancery. The most important of these are the Retours to Chancery. To these the only printed means of reference is the Inquisitionum ad capellam Domini Regis retornatarum abbreviatio (i6th and 17th centuries), published by the Record Commission.
Local Records.
To deal with the municipal and local records of Great Britain in any detail is quite impossible in this article. Fortunately the admirable work of C. Gross, entitled The Bibliography of Municipal History (Harvard Historical Studies), contains a complete account of the work done on municipal records up to 1897; while the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire as to the existing arrangements for the collection and custodv of local records (1902) affords a complete view of the questions dealt with by it.
Private    Collections.—The publications of the Historical
Manuscripts Commission are in most cases the only printed means of reference to private muniments. The 17th Report of the Commission contains an index to all the collections of papers so far dealt with by them.
Wills.—Up to the date of the Probate Act (20 & 21 Viet, c. 77) the proving of wills was under ecclesiastical jurisdiction, and the wills themselves were scattered among peculiar courts— courts of the various bishops, and the prerogative court of Canterbury. By the passing of the act a general registry was established at Somerset House, to which were transferred all the wills of the prerogative court of Canterbury and of many of the other registries. But even at the present time there remains much confusion and uncertainty as to .the place of deposit of the wills of any particular court; and for accurate information on this point the inquirer must be referred to the Handbook to the Ancient Courts of Probate and Depositories of Wills, by G. W. Marshall.
British Colonies.
For the British colonics the most important records, historically speaking, arc the Colonial Office papers deposited in the Public Record Office, London; and those colonies which have published the records relating to their history have usually gone to that source. In New South Wales% however, there is in the Colonial Secretary's office at Sydney a collection of records dating from 1789, which are included in the volumes published by that State. Cape Colony possesses records dating from 1652; G. McCall Theal, historiographer of the colony, has also published important series of volumes of documents drawn from the Public Record Office and other European sources. Canada has recently centralized its records, of which a large part so far consists of transcripts made in Europe. For an account see E. C. Burnett’s List of printed guides to and descriptions of Archives and other repositories of Historical Manuscripts (American Historical Manuscripts Commission Report, 1897). The Dominion Archivist submits yearly to the Minister for Agriculture a report, in which (in Appendices) are given many lists and accounts of records.
European Countries.
In dealing with Great Britain it has seemed desirable to give some account of^ publications dealing with the contents of the repositories described. In the remainder of the article this will not be attempted. For the most part the books mentioned are in themselves bibliographies and guides, and do not contain even abstracts or descriptions of actual documents. It is scarcely necessary to explain that much of the following information is based on the work of Langlois and Stein.
Austria and Hungary.—The records of Austria-Hungary, Bohemia, and the other states under the same government, are still preserved locally. There are repositories of government records at Vienna, Budapest and Prague, and ten provincial places of deposit. Even at Vienna there is nothing resembling the English Public Record Office; the Kaiserliches und königliches IIaus-, Hof- und Staatsarchiv contains the papers of the imperial family and the records of imperial administration and of that of foreign affairs. Of other departmental papers those at the Ministry of War arc the most important. There is no complete inventory of all these records. At Budapest since 1875 have been collected the archives of Hungary, Transylvania, Croatia and the government of Fiume: for an account of the records in this and other Hungarian and Transylvanian repositories sec Fr. Zimmcrmann’s Über Archiv in Ungarn; ein Führer durch ungarländische und siebenburgische Archive.
Belgium.—The records are numerous and valuable.
State Records comprise all those of the central governments, of the modern kingdom, of the governments preceding it and of the various . states such as Brabant, Flanders, Gueldrcs and Hainault out of which Belgium was formed. They are preserved partly at Brussels as General Records of the Kingdom and partly in provincial repositories. Thus at Ghent are archives of the county of Flanders, at Liège of the principality of that name and of the duchy of Limburg, at Mons of the county of Hainault, at Bruges of the liberty of Bruges and other jurisdictions of eastern Flanders; at Namur, Arlon, Hasselt and Tournai are repositories of less importance: at the same time the repositorv at Brussels contains many records of the same kind as those in the provincial offices and is the chief one of the country; the collection there has been formed from various collections in Belgium combined with records restored by the Austrian government and other acquisitions.
Archives Provinciales^ the records of provincial administrations since 1794, are placed in the chief towns of each province: each collection falls into three periods, French (1794-1814), Dutch (1814-1830) and Belgian.
Municipal Archives.—The most important are those of Antwerp, Bruges, Ghent, Malines, Mons, Tournai and Ypres.
The best book of general bibliographical reference for Belgian records is Pi renne’s Bibliographie de Vhistoire de Belgique.
Denmark.—At Copenhagen there has been, since 1889, a central Record office (Rigsarchiv) containing all the previously existing collections of records, and receiving those of the various ministries and offices. There are also repositories there, and at Odense and Viborg, for local records, municipal and others. The central office is publishing a series of inventories of documents in its charge.
France.—The best general work is Les Archives de Vhistoire de France, by Langlois and Stein. The administration of the records is attached to the Ministry of Public Instruction, acting through a commission and inspectors.
Archives Nationales, in the Hôtel Soubise at Paris, are divided into three sections, Historique, Administrative et Domaniale and Legislative et Judiciaire, each including subsections distinguished by letters or groups of letters. The classification is by subject, not necessarily by origin or function; but some of the classes, e.g. the archives of the Trésor des Chartes, the Parliament of Paris and the Châtelet, represent real groups of records with a common history.
Archives des Ministères.—In theory the Archives Nationales should receive all government office records, except those in current use: actually several offices retain their own. Thus the Ministry of Foreign Affairs keeps its archives, divided into Correspondance politique and Mémoires et Documents : it also publishes series of Inventaires analytiques des Archives du Ministère des Affaires étrangères, and Recueils des instructions données aux ambassadeurs et ministres de France depuis les traités de Westphalie jusqu'à la Révolution française. The Ministries of War and the Marine likewise possess and administer their own archives.
Archives Départementales. — Each department possesses a special office for the custody of its records, which are in many cases of great importance, consisting partly of the records of the ancient provincial governments, private documents seized at the Revolution, muniments of religious houses, &c., and partly of modern administrative records. A system of uniform classification by subjects has been applied to these, coupled with a rule that documents having a common history and origin are not to be separated; it is understood that the intelligence of the archivists in charge has enabled them to disobey neither of these regulations. For a general view of the arrangement and contents of departmental repositories see Etat général par fonds des archives départementales, ancien régime et période révolutionnaire (1903), and the Inventaires Sommaires for the several departments. For the publication of local societies see Manuel de bibliographie de Vhistoire, by Ch. V. Langlois, (1901) p. 385 seq.
Archives Municipales et Communales : the value of these arises largely from their having had an undisturbed history: inventories of most of the collections exist in print. (See Langlois and Stein, op. cit. pp. 278-442.)
Archives Hospitalières form an important body of records, for the most part undisturbed. For their classification, and a list of the repositories of them, sec Langlois and Stein, p, 443 seq.; the many other places in France where records exist are mentioned in the same work; note, however, that the archives of the Bastille are now in the Bibliothèque de VArsenal at Paris. There are in the English Public Record Office seventy-three volumes of transcripts from French archives, taken partly from the Archives Nationales (Letters of Henrietta Maria, &c.) and partly from Archives Départementales. The Record Office Calendar of Documentsr  France, edited by J. H. Round, containing early monastic charters, is based on these.
Germany.—Unfortunately lists of German State archives (Geheimes Archiv) are not published. Repositories are very numerous: for their localities, sec the Hand- und Addressbuch der deutschen Archive of C. A. H. Burkhardt (2nd ed., 1887). In Prussia, besides the central repository at Berlin, there are sixteen provincial ones of importance. The other kingdoms and states forming part of the German empire have each their repository', not always at the capital. Some account of their contents will be found in Langlois and Stein (op. cit.) and in Fr. von Löher’s Archivlehre. Grundzüge der Geschichte, Aufgaben und Einrichtung unserer Archive : for the publication of State Records see Dahl-mann-Waïtz, Quellenkunde zur deutschen jGeschichte; and for Prussian archives in particular R. Koser’s Über den gegenwärtigen Stand der archivalischen Forschung in Preusscn (1900). For the numerous and valuable records of German towns reference may be made to the works already mentioned. Many of the towns, e.g. Cologne, publish volumes drawn from their archives, and even include in them documents from other sources. Of special interest to English students is Konstantin Höhlbaurn’s work upon the Hanse towns. The Record Office has a volume of transcripts from German archives.
Holland.—There is one repository for each of the eleven states. That at the Hague, for south Holland, serves also as a central repository for the whole kingdom. This collection occupies a special building, and includes the records of Foreign Affaire, classed under the countries to which they relate, and certain documents acquired from the collection of Sir Thomas Phillips. There are many printed and manuscript lists, and access to the documents is easy. This is also the case with the other provincial archives, of which the most important arc those at Arnheim.
Hertcgenbosch, Groningen, Haarlem, Maastricht, Middelburg and Utrecht.
Town archives are for the m<5st part well preserved. Printed inventories generally exist, and in some cases, e.g. at Docsburg, the archives contain information as to the relations between the Hanse and England in the 14th century.
Dutch repositories have no administrative interconnexion. Each archivist reports yearly to the archivist-in-chies of the kingdom, and since 1878 these Verslagen omtrent Rijks oude Archieven have been printed.
The English Public Record Office has four volumes of transcripts from Dutch archives.
Italy.—The administration of the public records of the kingdom is attached to the Ministry of the Interior, for which office Signor Vazio published (1883) his Relatione sugliarchivi di stato italiani. There arc seventeen repositories, representing the ancient divisions of the kingdom. The most important are the following:—
Florence, containing records of the foreign correspondence of the dukes of Tuscany and the Florentine republic.
Genoa, records of the republic.
Milana records of the duchy, in particular the registers called L'Arckivio Panigorola.
Modena, recordsof the family of Este.
Naples, in particular the Cancelleria Angioina, records of the Angevin kings of Naples, containing documents relative to their extensive dominions in Provence, Anjou and elsewhere, for a bibliographical account of which see Les Archives angevines de Naples; eludes stir les registres du Roi Charles 1**, by Paul Durrieu. Naples also possesses the important Arckivio Famesianor mainly records of tne duke of Parma, brought there by Charles I. of Bourbon on his accession to the throne of the Two Sicilies in 1735.
Palermo, the records of the island of Sicily.
Rome, the most important records of the Arckivio di Slato are those relating to the papal government which were not transferred to the Vatican in 1871.
Turin, the archives of the house of Savoy, especially the letters from envoys at foreign courts, a series of very important reports.
Venice, the convent dei Frari contains probably the most interesting collection of records in Italy. Kawdon Brown, G. Cavendish Bentinck, and H. F. Brown have edited many of the principal documents relating to England in the State Papers: Venetian (Record Office), which are still in progress. The Record Office also possesses two hundred and ten volumes of transcripts from Venetian archives, mostly the reports and correspondence of ambassadors, together with Rawdon Brown’s large collection of similar materials, mainly originals or early copies (see Report 46).
The Vatican.—For the history of the papal archives the work of H. Brcsslau, llandhuch der Urkundenlehre fxir Deutschland und Ilalien (Leipzig, 1889), may be consulted. The best English account is contained in an article in the American Historical Review (October 1896), by C. H. Haskins. But certain of the prefaces to the Record Office Calendar mentioned below may be consulted; and the description given by Langlois and Stein (op. cit.) is useful. The Vatican archives have been open to students only since the year 1881. The chief portion of tne collection is that called the Arckivio Segreto, which may be divided into two heads, the original Arckivio Segreto and the archives added to it from Avignon, from the castle ofSt Angelo and from special offices such as the Consistory, Dataria Apostolica, Rota, Secrclaria Brevium, Signature Gratiae, Penitentiary, and Master of the Ceremonies. The records of the congregations of the Index, the Holy Office and the Propaganda are not usually accessible to students.
Since 1881 the importance of the archives has attracted to Rome many bands of students. Most European governments have arranged for the publication of records dealing with their own countries. The classes of documents that have received ^ most attention arc the Regesta, or registers of bulls and briefs, issued by the papal chancery; the Supplicationes, or petitions; and the Nuntiaturae, or despatches received from the nuncios and instructions sent to them. An account of the numerous publications will be found in the works already mentioned. Here it is only possible to mention the English publications. .The Record Office in London has published one volume of Petitions, 1342-1417, and a Calendar from the Regesta, which covers the period 1198-1431. The French government is publishing a complete Calendar of the Regesta up to the end of the 13th century. There are in the English Public Record Office one hundred and sixty-two volumes of transcripts from the Vatican archives arranged in two series.
Norway.—The records of Norway are preserved at Christiania, and include a collection of papers of Christian II., king of Denmark. For the contents of the collection, see Ditloma tar ium Norvegicum, by Lange and Unger (1849-1891); and Nor she Rigsrcgistranter iildeels i uddrag, dealing with the 16th and 17th centuries,
Portugal.—Portuguese royal records arc in the monastery of Sao Bento at Lisbon. The collection suffered much during the earthquake of 1755. It includes the registers of the Chancery since the t3th century, and a large number of documents subsidiary to them. In addition to this repository there are collections at the various ministries; from the records of the Ministry for Foreign
Affairs, Borges de Castro, and afterwards Judice Biker, published their Collecqdo dos Trot ad or . . . enire a Corona de Portugal e as mats potentias. There are three volumes of transcripts from Portuguese records in the English Public Record Office.
Russia.—The records of the Russian government arc distributed in various repositories in Moscow ana St Petersburg. At the former are preserved the records of the foreign relations of Russia clown to 1801; permission to use them can be obtained from the Minister for Foreign Affairs: there are no printed lists, but many in manuscript. At Moscow are also preserved the records of the Ministry of Justice. In vol. xliv. of the Revue historique (i8po) there is an article by J.-J. Chemko and L.-M. Balffol on Les Archives de Vempire russe ά Moscow. The records of government offices at St Petersburg are not open to, students. There are minor repositories at various provincial capitals, and the records of the Grand Duchy of Finland are at. Helsingfors. There are three volumes of transcripts from Russian records at the English Public Record Office.
Spain.—The nearest approach to a central Record Office for Spain is the Archivo General Central, established by a royal ordinance of 1858 at Alcala de Henarcs, near Madrid. The collection there includes, in addition to the general administrative records of the kingdom, valuable historical matter concerning the Inquisition, the Jesuits, and other subjects. There is also at Madrid a repository known as the Archivo Historico Nacional, which contains the archives of crown lands and suppressed monasteries, with a printed inventory. The remaining records are^ distributed locally^ in separate repositories containing the archives of the old kingdoms. Those of Castile are partly at Simancas and partly at Alcala de Henares. Those of Aragon are at Barcelona in the Palacio de los Condes. Those of Navarre are at Pamplona and difficult of access. The remainder arc of small importance.
In addition to thei;e there are two collections requiring notice, the Archivo generol de Indias at Seville and the papers of the Con-sulado del Mar at Bilbao.
The English Public Record Office is publishing a Calendar of the papers relating to England in Spanish and other connected archives. The introduction to the first volume, edited by C. Bergen rot h, contains a sketch of the records used by him; and the series, under the successive editorship of Bergenroth, Don Pasquale de Gayangos and Major Martin Hume, now extends from the reign of Henry VIII. to the year 1603. The Record Office possesses sixty-five volumes of transcript from Spanish archives.
Sweden.—The archives have not yet been centralized, and large collections exist at the various ministries. The most important records, however, are the Royal Archives (Rigsarchivet), preserved in the island of Riddarholmen, Stockholm. A great many publications have been based on these: there are for instance an inventory, Middlelanden fran Svenska Rigsarchivet ; a work bearing generally on Scandinavian history, Handlingar rdrande Scandin· naviens historia ; and the Diplomatarium Suecicum, which is still in progress. The English Record Office has seven volumes of transcripts from the Stockholm archives, with a report.
Private collections are numerous and valuable, and a society for exploring and publishing such records is supported by the state.
Switzerland.—The Swiss records are of two kinds: records of the confederation, and records of the several cantons. The first are in the Bundes-Archiv at Berne, and date from 1798; see General Repertorium der Aden des kelvetischen Centralarchivs in Bern, 1798-1803, and Schweizerisches Urkunden-Register, by B. Hidber, vol. ii. (Berne, 1877). The Cantonal records, some of them of very early date, are at the chief town of each canton, and for the most part are provided with manuscript inventories. For those of Geneva, see also Les Archives de Geneve, edited by F. Turrettini and A. C. Grivel (1877). For the records of the Abbey of St Gall, sec Urkundenbuch der Abtei St Gallon, edited by H. Wartmanne
Ώ-1882); and for those of Zurich, Urkundenbuch der Stadt und tchast Zurich, by P. Schweitzer and E. Escher (1889-1892). There are in the English Public Record Office five volumes of transcripts from the Bundes-Archiv.
United States of America
The records, among which transcripts made in England, France, and Holland hold an important place, may be divided into: Federal, kept at Washington; those in private collections; and State Records at the various state capitals.. The publication and care of all these are often the work of private bodies subsidized or recognized by government. Thus, although Federal archives are now centralized under the charge of the head of the division of Manuscripts in the Library of Congress, which office is acquiring important collections of the papers of former presidents, and may also have transferred to it departmental records not in current use, publication of guides is the concern of the historical section of the Carnegie Institution and of the Archives Commission of the Historical Association. The same association explores private collections through its Historical Manuscripts Commission; and numerous societies publish state records. Some states, however, have themselves published American and European documents relating to their history; and mention must be made of the large series of American Archives and State Papers published from 1832 onwards by Congress.
The best guide for Federal records is the work of Leland and Valentine; for a general bibliographical work of reference see.E. C. Burnett’s List of Printed Guides . . . (Historical MSS. Commission Report, 1897).
Extravagantia
In various ways records are apt to wander from their proper custody and to lose their legal character. But in spite of this loss the historian is bound to pursue them either into the hands of private collectors or on to the shelves of some museum. No attempt can be made to discuss private collections or the manuscripts of foreign libraries. Even among English libraries it must be sufficient to mention the British Museum as the principal destination of wandering records. Of the collections in that library the most important to the student of records are the Cottonian, the Harleian and the Lansdowne, all catalogued by the Record Commission; the Additional, catalogued from time to time as fresh matter accrues; the Egerton, catalogued with the Additional·, the Sloane and the Stowe, both catalogued. No distinction is made between documents that have been technically 11 records ” and others. The whole collection is divided technically into Manuscripts, by which are meant volumes, and Charters and Rolls, meaning detached documents. To the latter class an Index locorum, compiled by H. F. Ellis and F. B. Bickley, has been printed. (C. G. Cr.)
RECORDE, ROBERT (c. 1510-1558), Welsh physician and mathematician, was descended from a respectable family of Tenby in Wales. He entered the university of Oxford about 1525, and was elected fellow of All Souls’ College in 1531. Having adopted medicine as a profession, he went to Cambridge, where he took the degree of M.D. in 1545. He afterwards returned to Oxford, where he publicly taught mathematics, as he had done prior to his going to Cambridge. It appears that he afterwards went to London, and acted as physician to Edward VI. and to Queen Mary, to whom some of his books are dedicated. He< died in the King’s Bench prison, Southwark, where he was confined for debt, in 1558.
Recorde published several works upon mathematical subjects, chiefly in the form of dialogue between master and scholar, viz.:— The Grounds of Aries, teachinge the Worke and Practise of Arith-meticke, both in whole numbers and fractions (1540); The Pathway to Knowledge, containing the First Principles of Geometry . . . bothe for the use of Instrumentes Geometncall and Astronomically and also for Projection of Plattes (London, 1551); The Castle of Knowledge, containing the Explication of the Sphere both Celestiall and Materially &c. (London, 1556); The Whetstone of Witte, which is the second part of Arithmetike, containing the Extraction of Rootes, the Cossike Practice, with the Rules of Equation, and the Woorkes of Surde Numbers (London, 1557). This was the first English book on algebra. He wrote also a medical work, The Urinal of Physic (15481, frequently reprinted. Sherburne states that Recorde also published Cosmographiae isagoge, and that he wrote a book De Arte faciendi Horologium and another De Usu Globorum et de Stahi temporum. Recordc’s chief contributions to the progress of algebra were in the way of systematizing its notation (see Algebra, History).
RECORDER, in its original sense, one who sets down or records. Hence applied to a person with legal knowledge who was appointed by the mayor and aldermen to “ record ” or keep in mind the proceedings of their court, as well as the customs of the city. The word is now chiefly used of the principal legal officer of a city or borough having a separate court of quarter sessions. He must be a barrister of five years’ standing, appointed by the crown and holding office during good behaviour, and receiving “ such yearly salary, not exceeding that stated in the petition on which the grant of a separate court of quarter sessions was made,” as the sovereign directs (Municipal Corporations Act 1882, s. 163). The recorder holds, once in every quarter of a year, or oftener, if he thinks fit, a court of quarter sessions in and for the borough. He is sole judge of the court, “ having cognizance of all crimes, offences, and matters cognizable by courts of quarter sessions for counties in England,” except that he may not allow or levy any borough rate, or grant licences (s. 165). He is not eligible to serve in parliament for the borough, or to be an alderman or councillor, or stipendiary magistrate for the borough, though he may he revising barrister and is eligible to serve in Parliament except for the borough. He may be appointed recorder for two or more boroughs conjointly. He may, in case of sickness or unavoidable absence, appoint in writing a barrister of five years’ standing to act as deputy
recorder for him. A recorder is ex officio a justice for the borough. '
The recorder of London is judge of the lord mayor’s court, and one of the commissioners of the central criminal court. His salary is £4000 a year. He is appointed by the lord mayor and aldermen, but by the Local Government Act 1888, s. 42, sub-s. 14, after the vacancy next after the beginning of the act, no recorder may exercise any judicial function unless he is appointed by the sovereign to exercise such function. See Quarter Sessions, Court of.
RECORDER, Flpple Flute or English Flute (Fr. flûle-à-bec, flûte douce, flûte anglaise or flûte à neuf trous ; Ger. Block- or Plockflbte, Schnabelflôle, Langfl ôte ; It al. flauto dolce, flauto diritto), a medieval flute, blown by means of a whistle mouthpiece and held vertically in front of the performer like a clarinet. The recorder only survives in the now almost obsolete flageolet and in the so-called penny-whistle. The recorder consisted of a wooden tube, which was at first cylindrical or nearly so, but became, as the instrument developed and improved, an inverted cone. The whistle mouthpiece has been traced in almost prehistoric times in Egypt and other Oriental countries. The principle of the whistle mouthpiece is based on that of the simplest flutes without embouchure, like the Egyptian nayt with this modification, that, in order to facilitate the production of sound, the air current, instead of being directed through ambient air to the sharp edge of the tube (or the lateral embouchure in the modern flute), is blown through a chink directly into a narrow channel. This channel is so constructed within the mouthpiece that the stream of air impinges with force against the sharp edge of a lip or fipple cut into the pipe below the channel. This throws the air current into the state of vibration required in order to generate sound-waves in the main column of air within the tube. The inverted cone of the bore has the effect of softening the tone of the recorder still further, earning for it the name of flute douce. Being so easy to play, the recorder always enjoyed great popularity in all countries until the greater possibilities of the transverse flute turned the tide against it. The want of character which distinguishes the timbre of the whistle-flute is due to the paucity of harmonic overtones in the clang. The recorder had seven holes in front and one at the back for the thumb. As long as the tube was made in one piece the lowest hole stopped by the little finger was generally made in duplicate to serve equally well for right- and left-handed players, the unused hole being stopped with wax. Being an open pipe, the recorder could overblow the octave and even the two following harmonics (i.e. the twelfth and* second octave). The holes produced the diatonic scale, and by means of harmonics and cross-fingering the second and part of a third octave were obtained.
The recorder is described and figured by Sebastian Virdung, Martin Agricola and Ottmar Luscinius in the 16th century, and by Michael Practorius and Marin Mcrsenne in the 17th century. ■ Praetorius mentions eight different sizes ranging from the small flute two octaves above the cornetto to the great bass. The lowest notes of the large flutes were provided with keys enclosed in perforated wooden or brass cases, which served to protect the mechanism, as^ yet somewhat primitive; the keys usually had double touch pieces to suit right- or left-handed players.
There are at least two fine sets of recorders extant : one is preserved in the Germanisches Museum at Nuremberg, consisting of eight flutes in a case and dating from the 17th century; the other is the Chester set of four 18th-century instruments, which are fully-described and illustrated in a paper by Joseph C. Bridge.@@1
The recorder has been immortalized by Shakespeare in the famous scene in Hamlet (II. 3), which has been treated from the musical point of view in an excellent and carefully written article by- Christopher Welch, the author of an equally valuable paper,
“ The Literature of the Recorder."@@2
The small whistle-pipe used to accompany the tabor (Fr. galoubet; Ger. Stameniienpfeiff or Schive gel), which had but three holes, belongs to the same family as the recorder, but from its association with the tabor it acquired distinctive characteristics (see Pipe and Tabor).    (K. S.)
@@@1    " The Chester Recorders ” in Proc. Mus. Assoc., London, 1901.
@@@2    " Hamlet and the Recorder,” ibid., 1902 and 1898.
RECTOR (Lat. for “ruler,” “guide,” &c., from regcrc, “rule”), a title given to the bearers of certain ecclesiastical and academical offices; In the Roman empire, after Constantine, the title rector was borne by governors of provinces subordinate to the prefects or exarchs. In the middle ages it was given to certain secular officials, e.g. the podestas of some Italian towns, but more especially to the heads of the universities, the representatives and rulers of the universitas magis-trorum et scholariurn, elected usually for a very short time. After the humanistic movement of the Renaissance the style rector was also given to the chief masters of schools containing several classes, and in some parts of Germany (e.g. Saxony, Wilrttembcrg) it is still thus used instead of the more modern title of Director. Rector is also still the title of the heads of the Scottish universities (Lord Rector), who are elected for three years, and of the German universities {Rector M a gnificus), in which the office is held for a year by a representative of each faculty in turn. In those German universities where the rectorship is held by the sovereign (Rector Magnificentissimus)}  the acting head is known as Prorector.    “ Rector ” is also the
title of the heads of Exeter and Lincoln Colleges, Oxford. The heads of all Jesuit colleges are “ rectors.”
As an ecclesiastical title rector was once loosely used for rulers of the Church generally, whether bishops, abbots or parish priests (see Du Cange, Rectores ecclesiarum). The Rectores Apostolici Patrimonii were clerics of the Roman Curia charged with the duty of looking after the interests of the patrimony of St Peter. The ecclesiastical title rector, however, became ultimately confined in certain parts of Europe (Poland, Spain and notably England) to the office of a priest having a cure of souls. In its English use it is thus synonymous with “ curate” in the sense used in the Prayer Book. In the middle ages k large number of rectories were held by religious houses, which drew the bulk of the tithes and appointed vicars to do the work.· Hence the modem distinction in England between rectors and vicars. A rector is incumbent of a benefice never held under a monastery, and he receives all the tithes; a vicar (i.e. of an ancient benefice) draws only such tithes as were left to the benefice by the religious house which held it. On the suppression of the monasteries the “ great tithes ” were often bestowed by the crown on laymen, who, as owning the rectorial tithes, were and are known as “ lay rectors.” It follows that, rectories being usually richer than vicarages, the style of “ rector ” is in England slightly more dignified than that of “ vicar.” In the American Protestant Episcopal Church the incumbents of churches are called rectors.
RECUSANT (from Lat. recusare, to refuse), the name, in English history, given in the 16th and 17th centuries to those persons who persisted in refusing to attend the services of the English Church, and particularly to those of the Roman Catholic faith (see Roman Catholic Church, § English Law).
REDAN, in fortification, a work of V-shape presenting a salient angle towards the expected attack. The gorge (rear) of a redan is open. When unsupported by other works, it has the disadvantage that its fire is divergent and but few guns can be brought to bear directly towards the front. Further, both its faces are usually open to enfilade. Redans were therefore almost always used in conjunction with other works, one of the most common forms being the “ lines of redans ” used as field works. These consisted of lengths of plain trenches facing the front, with redans at intervals along the line. In the present day the term redan is loosely applied to works merely possessing saliency, as in the case of the celebrated bastions Nos. 3 and 2 at Sevastopol in 1854-55, usually called the “Redan” and “ Little Redan ” respectively (see Crimean War). The “ Redan ” was a large work of irregular outline, generally resembling a redan, but having the salient angle blunted or rounded off and the side faces broken into several minor fronts so as to obtain a field of fire in many directions. (See Fortification AND SlEGECRAFT.)
RED BANK, a borough of Monmouth county, New Jersey, U.S.A., on an estuary known as Navesink river, at the head of navigation, about 6 m. \V. of the Atlantic Ocean, and about 25 m. S. of New York City. Pop. (1905) 6263; (1910) 739S. Red Bank is served by the Central of New Jersey and the Pennsylvania railways, and by steamboats to New York, and is connected with the neighbouring towns by electric lines. It is a residential suburb of New York City and a summer resort. In the winter ice-boating is a popular amusement, and Red Bank has fish and oyster industries of some importance.
The name Red Bank was applied to this locality as early as 1734, and in 1781 there were several buildings within the limits of the present borough. Red Bank was incorporated as a town in 1870 and became a borough in 1908. Near Red Bank was established in 1843 the North’American phalanx, a Fouricritc community, with a capital of about $8000 and 112 members, on about 673 acres; it was financially the most successful and the longest lived of the Fourierist phalansteries in America, but broke up in 1855 because of internal dissensions, following a fire which destroyed the mills.@@1
REDBREAST,@@2 or Robin, perhaps the favourite among English birds because of its pleasing colour, its sagacity and fearlessness of man, and its cheerful song, even in winter. In July and August the hedgerows of the southern counties of England are beset with redbreasts, not in flocks, but each individual keeping its own distance from the next@@3 —all, however, on their way to cross the Channel. On the European continent the migration is still more marked, and the redbreast on its autumnal and vernal passages is the object of bird-catchers, since its value as a delicacy has long been recognized. Even those redbreasts which stay in Britain during the winter are subject to a migratory movement. The first sharp frost makes them change their habitation, and a heavy fall of snow drives them towards the homesteads for food. The redbreast exhibits a curious uncertainty of temperament in regard to its nesting habits. At times it wifi place the utmost confidence in man, and at times show the greatest jealousy. The nest is usually built of riioss and dead leaves, with a moderate lining of hair. In this arc laid from five to seven white eggs, sprinkled or blotched with light red.
Besides the British Islands, the redbreast (Motaoilla rubecula of Linnaeus and the Erithaais rubecula of modem authors) is generally dispersed over the continent of Europe, and is in winter found in the oases of the Sahara. Its eastern limits are not well determined. In northern Persia it is replaced by a nearly allied form, Erithacus hyreanus, distinguishable by its
@@@1 The borough of Red Bank should be distinguished from a place of the same name in Gloucester county, New Jersey, about 6 m. below Camden, on the Delaware river, nearly opposite the mouth of the Schuylkill river, which was the site of Fort Mercer in the American War of Independence. Fort Mercer, with Fort Mifflin (nearly opposite it on an island in the Delaware), prevented the co-operation of the British navy with the army which had occupied Philadelphia in September. On the 22nd of October Fort Mercer, held by 600 men under Col. Christopher Greene (1737-1781), was unsuccessfully attacked by a force of about 2500 men, mostly Hessians, under Col. Carl Emil Kurt von Donop, the Hessians losing abou 1^400 men, including Donop, who was mortally wounded. The British naval force was prevented by the " Pennsylvania navy ” under John Hazelwood (c. 1726-1800) from taking part in the attack; two British ships were destroyed; and the fire from the American vessels added to the discomfiture of the Hessians. On the 15th of November Fort Mifflin was destroyed after a five days* bombardment from batteries on the Pennsylvania shore and from British vessels in the rear; and on the 20th Fort Mercer was abandoned before Cornwallis’s approach and was destroyed by the British. Philadelphia was then put in touch with Admiral Howe’s fleet and with New York City. Near Red Bank a monument to Christopher Greene was erected in 1829.
@@@* English colonists in distant lands have applied the common nickname of the redbreast to other birds that are not immediately allied to it. The ordinary " robin ” of North America is a thrush, Turdus migratorius (see Fieldfare), and one of the bluebirds of the same continent, Siolia sialis, is in ordinary speech the blue "robin”; the Australian and Pacific “robins” of the genus Pctrocca arc of doubtful affinity and have not all even the red breast; the Cape “ robin " is Cossophya caffra, the Indian “ robin ” Thamnobia and the New Zealand “ robin ” Miro.
@@@1 It is a very old saying that Unum arbustutn non alii duos eritha-cos—One bush does not harbour two redbreasts.
more ruddy hues, while in northern China and Japan another species, E. akahige, is found of which the sexes differ somewhat in plumage—the cock having a blackish band below his red breast and greyish-black flanks, while the hen closely resembles the familiar British species—but both cock and hen have the tail of chestnut-red. The genus Erithacus, as well as that containing the other birds to which the name “ robin ” has been applied, with the doubtful exception of Petroeca, belong to the sub-family Turdinae.of the thrushes (?.?.).
REDCAR, a watering-place in the Cleveland parliamentary division of the North Riding of Yorkshire, England, 8 m. N.E. of Middlesbrough, on a branch of the North-Eastern railway. Pop. of urban district (including the township of Coatham,
1901) 7695. Its long range of firm sands from Tees mouth to Saltburn, a distance of 10 m., has made it a popular summer resort. Race meetings are held here on Whit Monday and Tuesday, a'nd in August. Redcar is close to the Cleveland iron-working district of which the centre is Middlesbrough, and is in great favour with the large industrial population of that district.
REDD1TCH, a town in the eastern parliamentary division of Worcestershire, England, situated on an eminence near the Warwickshire border, 15^ m. S. of Birmingham by the Midland railway. Pop. of urban district (1901) 13,493. It is the centre of a district producing needles and fish-hooks. There are also motor-engineering works. The town possesses a literary and scientific institute (1850). In the modern church of St Stephen (1854) are preserved tiles from the former Cistercian abbey of Bordesley, founded in ri3S, of which the site may be traced at Bordesley Park, 2 m. N.
REDESDALE, JOHN FREEMAN-MITFORD, Baron (1748-1830), English lawyer and politician, younger son of John Mitford (d. 1761) and brother of the historian William Mitford, was bora in London on the 18th of August 1748. Having become a barrister of the Inner Temple in 1777, he wrote A Treatise on the Pleadings in Suits m the Court of Chancery by English Billj a work of great value, which has been reprinted several times in England and America. In 1788 Mitford became member of parliament for the borough of Beeralston in Devon, and in 1791 he introduced the important bill for the relief of Roman Catholics, which was passed into law. In 1793 he succeeded Sir John Scott, afterwards Lord Eldon, as solicitor-general for England, becoming attorney-general six years later, when he was returned to parliament as member for East Looe, in Cornwall. In February 1801 Sir John Mitford (as he was now) was chosen speaker of the House of Commons. Exactly a year later, he was appointed lord chancellor of Ireland and was created a peer of the United Kingdom as Baron Redesdale. Being an outspoken opponent of Roman Catholic emancipation, Redesdale was unpopular in Ireland. In February 1806 he was dismissed on the formation of the ministry of Fox and Lord Grenville. Although Redesdale declined to return to official life, he was an active member of the House of Lords both on its political and its judicial sides. In 1813 he secured the passing of acts for the relief of insolvent debtors, and later he was an opponent of the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts and of other popular measures of reform. Redesdale, who was a fellow of the Royal Society and a member of three commissions on the public records, died on the 16th of January 1830. In 1803 he married Frances (d. 1817), daughter of John, 2nd earl of Egmont. He took the additional name of Freeman in 1809 on succeeding to the estates of Thomas Edwards Freeman.
His only son, John Thomas Freeman Mitford (1805-1886), succeeded to the title. In 1851 he was chosen chairman Of committees in the House of Lords, a position which he retained until his death, and in 1877 he was created earl of Redesdale. His chief interest was reserved for ecclesiastical questions, and he won some repute as a Protestant controversialist. He assisted to revive Convocation in 1853; was an active opponent of the disestablishment of the Irish Church; and engaged in controversy with Cardinal Manning on the subject of communion in both kinds. On his death, on the 2nd of May 1886, his titles became extinct. He wrote Thoughts on English Prosody and Translations from Horace, and Further Thoughts on English Prosody (Oxford, 1859), in addition to various pamphlets on ecclesiastical topics.
The earl bequeathed his estates to his kinsman, Algernon Bertram Freeman-Mitford (b. 1837), a great-grandson of William Mitford. He had been in the diplomatic service from 1858 to 1873, and had been secretary to the Office of Works from 1874 to 1886. From 1892 to 1895 he was member of parliament for the Stratford-on-Avon division of Warwickshire, and he was created Baron Redesdale in 1902. He was well known for his writings on Japan, Tales of Old Japan (1871), The Attaché at Peking (1900), &c.
See O. J. Burke, History of the Lord Chancellors of Ireland (Dublin, iS79) ; J. R. O’Flanagan, Lives of the Lord Chancellors of Ireland (1870); Sir J. Barrington, Personal Sketches of His Own Times (1869); Sir S. E. Brydges, Autobiography (1834); and C. Abbot, Lord Colchester, Diary and Correspondence (London, 1861).
REDFERN, a municipality of Cumberland county, New South Wales, Australia, adjoining the city of Sydney on the S.S.W. Pop. (1901) 24,282. It is a busy manufacturing centre, having numerous ironworks, coach factories, boot factories, printing works, iron and brass foundries, soap factories and extensive railway works.
REDGRAVE, RICHARD (1804-1888), English artist, was born at Pimlico on the 30th of April 1804, and worked at first as a designer. He became a student in the Royal Academy Schools in 1826, and was elected an Associate in 1840 and an Academician in 1851 (retired, 1882). His “ Gulliver on the Farmer’s Table ” (1837) made his reputation as a painter. He began in 1847 a connexion with the Government Art Schools which lasted for a long term of years, and among other posts he held those of inspector-general of art in the Science and Art Department, and art director of the South Kensington Museum. He was greatly instrumental in the establishment of this institution, and he claimed the credit of having secured the Sheepshanks and Ellison gifts for the nation. He was also surveyor of the royal pictures. He was offered, but declined, a knighthood in 1869. Redgrave was an assiduous painter of landscape and genre; his best pictures being “ Country Cousins” (1848) and “ The Return of Olivia ” (1848), both in the national collection, “ The Sempstress ” (1844), “ Well Spring in the Forest ” (1865). He died on the 14th of December 1888.
See the Memoir by F. M. Redgrave, 1891.
REDLANDS, a city of San Bernardino county, in southern California, U.S.A., 67 m. (by rail) E. of Los Angeles. Pop. (1900) 4797; (1910) 10,449. It is served by the Southern Pacific and the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fé railways and by interurban electric lines. The city lies at an altitude of 1350-1600 ft. at the eastern end of the San Bernardino Valley, surrounded on three sides by mountains. To the east Grayback (11,725 ft.) and San Bernardino (11,600 ft.), to the south-east San Jacinto (10,805 ft.), and to the north-wr est Cajon Pass (4119 ft.) and San Antonio, of Old Baldy (10,142 ft.), are conspicuous landmarks. The city is a well-known tourist and health resort, with beautiful drives. Canyon Crest Park (Smiley Heights) contains about 300 acres, and Prospect Park 50 acres. The city has the A. K. Smiley Public Library, the gift of A. K. Smiley, and is the seat of the University of Redlands (Baptist; co-educa-tional), incorporated in 1907 and opened in 1909. Redlands is one of. the most famous orange-growing and shipping centres of California; it also ships other citrus fruits, olive oil, barley, wheat and stone. Olive oil and jam, marmalade and preserved fruits are manufactured. There are electric power plants in the mountains (three in Mill Creek Canyon and two in Santa Ana Canyon). A settlement called Lugonia was established within the limits of the present city in 1874, but Redlands dates from 1887, when it was settled by people from New England, and was chartered as a city.
REDMOND, JOHN EDWARD (1851-    ), Irish politician,
son of W. A. Redmond, M.P., was born at Waterford in 1851.
He was educated at Trinity College, Dublin, and was called to the bar at Gray’s Inn in i886, and subsequently to the Irish bar, though he never practised. He was a clerk in the vote office of the House of Commons before he entered parliament in 18S1 as member for New Ross. From 1885 to 1891 he represented North Wexford. As party whip he rendered great service to the Irish members by his thorough grasp of the procedure of the House. At the time of the rupture of the Irish party consequent on the Parnell scandals, Redmond was the most eloquent member of the minority who continued to recognize his leadership, and in 1891 he became the accredited leader of the Parnellites. In 1900 the two Nationalist parties were amalgamated under his leadership. He contested Cork unsuccessfully in 1891, but was elected for Waterford, where he was re-elected in 1906. (For the political events under his leadership of the Irish parliamentary party up to 1910, see Ireland: History; English History and allied articles.)
REDON, a town of western France, capital of an arrondisse-ment in the department of Ille-et-Vilaine, 45 m. S.S.W. of Rennes by rail. Pop. (1906) 5170. Redon is situated on the right bank of the Vilaine, above the confluence of the Oust and on the canal from Nantes to Brest. The Church of St Sauveur, formerly belonging to an abbey, has a Romanesque central tower, square in form but with rounded angles. A fine tower of the 14th century with a stone spire stands isolated from the church, from which it was separated owing to the destruction of part of the nave by fire in 1782. The choir, with ambulatory and radiating chapels, forms one of the most remarkable examples of 13th-century architecture in Brittany. The abbey has been converted into an ecclesiastical college. Some 16th-century timbered houses have interesting carvings. The industries include the manufacture of emery and polish, agricultural implements and boat-building, tanning, brewing and flour-milling. The port is accessible at high tides for vessels of 600 to 700 tons. Redon grew up round a monastery founded in the first half of the gth century. In the 14th century Jean de Trcal, one of the abbots, surrounded the town with walls, of which a remnant is still to be seen. *
REDONDA, an island in the British West Indies. It is a dependency of Antigua, and lies 25 m. S.W. of it, in 250 6' N. and 6i° 35' W. Pop. (1901) 120. It is a rocky mountain, rising abruptly from the sea to a height of 1000 ft., and has an area of £ sq. m. It is valuable for its phosphate of alumina (discovered in 1S65), of which 7000 tons are exported every year to the United’States.
REDONDELA, a town of north-wf cstcm Spain, in the province of Pontevedra; 7 m. N.E. of Vigo, in a bend of the Vigo estuary, and at the junction of the Tuy-Vigo and Vigo-Ponte-vedra railways. Pop. (1900) 10,843. The river is only accessible for small coasting vessels; it is the headquarters of a prosperous fishing industry. In the neighbourhood are ruins of several medieval castles, and the fine hall of the Marquess Vega de Armijo.
REDOUBT (Fr. redoute, from Med. Lat. rcductus, a place of retreat, refuge, rcducere, lead back, retire; the intrusive b is due to the O. Fr. redoubter, to fear, Lat. dubitaret to doubt), a term in fortification for a small closed work of plain trace, generally used in conjunction with lines of infantry trenches (see Fortification and Siegecraft). The term “ reduit ” (Fr. riduil), often confused with “ redoubt,” is only used for a keep or interior refuge for the garrison of a larger work, corresponding, on a small scale, to the citadel of a fortress.
RED RIVER, the name of tw'o American rivers, one emptying into the Mississippi near its mouth, and the other emptying into Lake Winnipeg.
i. The Red river, sometimes called the Red River of Louisiana, is the southernmost of the large tributaries of the Mississippi. It rises in northern Texas, in the northern part of the Staked Plains, or Llano Estacado, flow's E. by S. in Texas, between Texas and Oklahoma, and to Fulton, in south-western Arkansas, there turns S.E. and continues in a general southeasterly direction through Louisiana to the bank of the Mississippi, w'here it discharges partly into the Mississippi and partly into the Atchafalaya. Its length is estimated at 1200 m. or more; its drainage basin has an area of at least 90,000 sq. m.; and its discharge ranges from 3500 cub. ft. to 180,000 cub. ft. per second. It is somew'hat saline.in its upper course, and in its middle and lower course is laden with a reddish silt from which it takes its name. From an elevation on the Staked Plains of about 2450 ft., the river plunges into a canyon which is about 60 m. long and has nearly perpendicular walls of sandstone and gypsum formation 500 to 800 ft. high. Immediately below the canyon the river spreads out over a broad and sandy bed and flows for about 500 m. through a semi-arid plain. It narrows on entering the alluvial bottom lands, through which it pursues a sluggish and meandering course for the last 600 m. At high stages, from December to June, it is continually shifting its channel in this part of its course, by eroding one bank and making deposits on the other, and as the upper portion is densely w'ooded the falling trees, unless removed, become an obstruction to navigation. In 1828 the trees w'hich the river had felled formed the great “Red River raft” extending from Loggy Bayou, 65 m. below Shreveport, Louisiana, to Hurricane Bluffs, 27 m. above Shreveport. Congress began in that year to make appropriations for tbe removal of the raft, and by 1841 Henry M. Shreve had opened a channel. The river was neglected from 1857 to 1872 and another raft, 32 m. in length, formed above Shreveport. A channel w'as opened through this in 1872-73, and the complete removal of tbe obstruction a few years later so improved the drainage that a large tract of waste land was reclaimed. In its course through Louisiana the river has built up a flood-plain with silt deposits more rapidly than its tributaries, with the result that numerous lakes and bayous have been formed on either side, and Cypress Bayou was so flooded that boats plied between Shreveport, Louisiana and Jefferson, Texas, 45 m. apart; but wdtb the improvement of the river these lakes have become shallow or dry. For the improvement of navigation here not only the removal of snags is necessary, but there must be dredging, closure of outlets, building of levees to narrow and deepen the channel, and revetment w-orks to protect the banks. The cost of these works has been great (up to July 1909 more than $2,360,000 below Fulton, Arkansas, and more than $215,000 above Fulton), but they Have rendered the river navigable, except at very lowr stages, by vessels drawing 3 ft. of w’ater from its mouth to Fulton, Arkansas, a distance of 508-6 m., and at the highest stages,@@1 in March and April, it is navigable to Denison, Texas, 292 m. farther up. The Ouachita and Black (one river), which is the principal tributary of tbe Red, joins it near its mouth and is navigable at high stages to Arka-delphia, Arkansas; and in 1910 a system of nine locks wdth movable dams w'as under construction by the Federal government for the purpose of seturing a channel 6§ ft. deep at all stages to a point 10 m. above Camden, Arkansas, a distance of 360 m.
During the Civil War, in March and April 1864, Major-General Nathaniel P. Banks conducted a combined military and naval expedition up the Red river in an attempt to open a Federal highway to Texas, but on the 8th of April the vanguard of his army was repulsed with heavy loss at Sabine Cross-Roads by the Confederates under Lieutenant-General Richard Taylor and the expedition was abandoned; the gunboats commanded by D. D. Porter were held above Alexandria by tbe lowness of the river, but it was flooded by a hurriedly built dam, and they escaped.
See R. B. Marcy and G. B. McClellan, Exploration of the Red River of Louisiana (Washington, 1853), and the annual Reports of the Chief of Engineers of the U.S. Army.
2. The Red river, commonly called the Red River of the North, rises in the lake region of western Minnesota, not far from the headwaters of the Mississippi, flows north betw'een Minnesota and North Dakota, continues northward through the Canadian province of Manitoba, and discharges into Lake Winnipeg. It has cut a gorge 20-50 ft. deep through clay deposits through-
@@@1 The range between low w-ater and high water at Fulton is 35-65 ft.
out the greater part of its course; it drains a region that is' famous for the production of wheat; and much water power has been developed on its tributaries. The United States government has improved its channel from the international boundary to Breckenridge, Minnesota, a distance of 395*5 m., and occasionally the water reaches a height which permits small steamboats to ascend its S.W. branch to Lake Traverse and from there to descend the Minnesota river to the Mississippi.
RED RIVER SETTLEMENT, a Scottish colony founded in 1811 near the present city of Winnipeg by a philanthropic Scottish nobleman, Lord Selkirk, who at that time controlled . the Hudson's Bay Company. Quarrels soon arose with the French and half-breed employes of the North-West Fur Company, and were fostered by its officials. On June 19, 1816, in a fight between the rivals, Governor Semple of the Hudson's Bay Company and twenty of his twenty-seven attendants were killed, an affair known as the Battle of Seven Oaks. New settlers were sent by Selkirk, and founded the village of Kildonan, now part of Winnipeg. In 1821 the rival companies united, and in 1836 repurchased from Selkirk's heirs all rights to the territory. In 1821 and in 1835 two forts, known as Lower and Upper Fort Garry, were built to command the junction of the Red and Assiniboine rivers, and around them grew up a mixed population of Scots, French and Indians. The purchase in 1869 of the territorial rights of the Company by the Dominion of Canada led to a rebellion, and the setting up of a provisional government under Louis Riel, which was dispersed by a force of British regulars under Colonel (later Lord) Wolseley.
See Canada (History); also George Bryce, Remarkable History of the Hudson's Bay Company (1900).
REDRUTH, a market town in the Camborne parliamentary division of Cornwall, England, 17 m. E.N.E. of Penzance, on the Great Western railway. Pop. of urban district (1901) 10,451. It lies high, on the northward slope of the central elevation of the county, with bare rocky moors to the south. It is the chief mining town in Cornwall, and the bulk of the population is engaged in the tin mines or at the numerous tin-streaming works. The parish church of St Uny, of which only the tower is ancient (Perpendicular), stands outside the town to the west, at the foot of a rugged hill named Carn Brea. On the Summit of this hill, besides a monument (1836) to Lord de Dunstanville and a small ancient castle, various prehistoric remains are traceable. A museum attached to the science and art schools and a miners' hospital are notable institutions in Redruth. A large quantity of the tin is sold by public auction at the mining exchange, the sales being known as tin-ticketings. There are manufactures of safety fuses, breweries, iron foundries and railway works. Tramways serve the neighbouring mines and the small port of Portreath on the north coast.
RED SEA, a narrow strip of water extending S.S.E. from Suez to the Strait of Bab el-Mandeb in a nearly straight line, and separating the coasts of Arabia from those of Egypt, Nubia and Abyssinia. Its total length is about 1.200 m., and its breadth varies from about 250 m. in the southern half to 130 m. in 270 45' N., where it divides into two parts, the Gulf of Suez and the Gulf of Akaba, separated from each other by the peninsula of Sinai.
The Gulf of Suez is shallow, and slopes regularly down to the northern extremity of the Red Sea basin, which has a maximum depth of 640 fathoms, and then over a shoal of 60 fathoms goes down to 1200 fathoms in 220 7' N. The Gulf of Akaba is separated from the Red Sea by a submarine bank only 70 fathoms from the surface, and in 28° 39' N. and 340 43' E. it attains the depth of 700 fathoms. South of the 1200-fathom depression a ridge rises to 500 fathoms in the latitude of Jidda, and south of this again a similar depression goes down to 1190 fathoms. Throughout this northern part, i.e. to the banks of Suakin and Farsan in 20° N., the ioo-fathom line keeps to a belt of coral reef close inshore, but in lower latitudes the shallow coral region, 300 m. long and 70 to 80 m. across, extends farther and farther seaward, until in the latitude of Hodeda the deep channel (marked by the ioo-fathom line) is only 20 m. broad, all the rest of the area being dangerous to* navigation, even for small vessels. In the middle of the gradu-. ally narrowing channel three depressions are known to exist; soundings in two of these are: 1110 fathoms in 20° N. and 8go fathoms in 160 N., a little to the north of Massawa. To the north-west of the volcanic island of Zebayir the depth is less than 500 fathoms; the bottom of the channel rises to the ioo-fathom line at Hanish Island (also volcanic), then shoals to 45 fathoms, and sinks again in about the latitude of Mokha in a narrow channel which curves westward round the island of Perim (depth 170 fathoms), to lose itself in the Indian Ocean. This western channel is 16 m. wide in the Strait of Bab el-Mandeh; the eastern channel of the strait is 2 m. broad and 16 fathoms deep.
Murray estimates the total area at 158,750 sq. m., and its volume at 67,700 cub. m., giving a mean depth of 375 fathoms. Karstens gives the area at 448,810 sq. kilometres ;
(130,424 sq. geographical m.) and the volume at 206,901 cub. kilometres (32,413 cub. geographical m.), which gives a mean depth of 2.52 fathoms.
Both these computations, however, were made before the date of the Austrian exploring expeditions (1896-98). Bludau’s measurements give the total area draining to the Red Sea at about 255,000 sq. geographical m. KrummePs more recent calculations (see Ocean) give values somewhat higher than those of Karstens.
The Red Sea is formed by a line of fracture, probably dating from Pliocene times, crossing the centre of a dome of Arch can rocks, on both flanks of which, in Egypt and Arabia, rest Secondary and Tertiary deposits. The granite rocks forming the core of the dome appear at the surface on the Red Sea coast, at the western end of the transverse line of heights crossing Nejd. Along the line of fracture traces of volcanic activity are frequent; a group of volcanic islands occurs in 140 N., and on Jebel Teir, farther north, a volcano has only recently become extinct. The margin of the Red Sea itself consists, on the Arabian side, of a strip of low plain backed by ranges of barren hills of coral and sand formation, and here and there by mountains of considerable height. The greater elevations are for the most part formed of limestones, except in the south, where they arc largely volcanic. The coasts of the Gulf of Akaba are steep, with numerous coral reefs on both sides. On the African side there are in the north wide stretches of desert plain, which towards the south rise to elevated tablelands, and ultimately to the mountains of Abyssinia. The shores of the Red Sea are little indented; good harbours are almost wanting in the desert regions of the north, while in the south the chief inlets are at Massawa, and at Kamaran, almost directly opposite. Coral formations are abundant; immense reefs, both barrier and fringing, skirt both coasts, often enclosing wide channels between the reef and the land. The reefs on the eastern side are the more extensive; they occur in places as much as 25 m. from the land, ft has long been knowrn that the whole Red Sea area is undergoing gradual elevation, and much has been done in recent years in investigating the levels of raised beaches found in different localities.
fn the northern part, down to almost 190 N., the prevailing winds are north and north-west. The middle region, to 14°-u6° N., has variable winds in an area of low barometric pressure, while in the southern Red Sea south-east and cast winds prevail. From June to August the north-^ west wind blows over the entire area; in September it retreats again as far as 160 N., south of which the winds are for a time variable, fn the Gulf of Suez the westerly, or 44 Egyptian,” wind occurs frequently during winter, sometimes blowing with violence, and generally accompanied by fog and clouds of dust. Strong north-north-east winds prevail in the Gulf of Akaba during the greater part of the year; they are weakest in April and May,-sometimes giving place at that season to southerly breezes. The high temperature and great relative humidity make the summer climate of the Red Sea one of the most disagreeable in the world.
The mean annual temperature of the surface waters^ near the head is 770 F.; it rises to 8o° in about 220 N., to 84° in 160 N., and drops again to 82° at the Strait of Bab el-Mandeb.
Daily variations of temperature are observable to a depth of over 50 fathoms. ^ Temperature is,, on the w'holc, higher near the Arabian than the Egyptian side, but it everywhere diminishes with increase of depth and latitude, down to 380 fathoms from the surface; below this depth a uniform constant temperature of 70*7° F. is observed throughout. In the Gulf of Suez temperature is lelatively low, falling rapidly from south to north. The waters of the Gulf of Akaba are warmer towards the Arabian than the Sinai coasts; a uniform temperature of 70-2° is observed at all depths below 270 fathoms.
The salinity of the waters is relatively great, the highest recorded being 42*7 per inillc (Gulf of Suez), and the lowest 36-2 (Perim harbour). The distribution is, speaking generally, the opposite to that of temperature; salinity increases from the surface downwards, and from the south northwards, and it is greater towards the western than the eastern side. This statement holds £ood for the Gulf of Suyz, in which the water is much salter than in the open sea; but in the Gulf οί Akaba the distribution is exceedingly uniform, nowhere differing much from an average of 40-6 per millc.
The movements of the waters arc of great irregularity and complexity, rendering navigation difficult ^ and dangerous. Two features stand out with special distinctness: the exchange of water between the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean, and the tidal streams of the Gulf of Suez. From the observations of salinity it is inferred that a surface current flows inwards to the Red Sea in the eastern channel of the Strait of Bab el-Mandeb, while a current of very salt water flows outward to the Indian Ocean, through the western channel, at a depth of 50 to roo fathoms from the surface. In the Gulfs of Suez and Akaba, almost the only part of the Red Sea in which tidal phenomena are well developed, a sharply defined tidal circulation is found. Elsewhere the surface movements at least are controlled by the prevailing winds, which give rise in places to complex ** transverse " currents, and near the coast are modified by the channels enclosed by the coral reefs. During the prevalence of the north and north-west winds the surface level of the northern part of the Red Sea is depressed by as much as 2 ft. The great evaporation going on from the surface probably causes a slow vertical circulation in the depth, the salter colder waters^ sinking, and ultimately escaping to the Indian Ocean. Extensive collections of the deposits forming the bed were made by the expeditions of the Austrian ship “ Pola ” (1896 and 1898). These were analysed by Dr K. Nattercr, whose conclusions, however, have been disputed by a number of other investigators. The zoological collections of the " Pola " expeditions show that certain well-defined districts are extremely rich in plankton, while others are correspondingly poor; and it appears that the latter occur in districts surrounded by currents of relatively low temperature, while the richer parts are where the movements of water are blocked by irregularities in the coast-line.
Authorities.—A. Issel, Morfologia e genesi del Mar Rosso. Saggio di Paleogeografia, Congresso Geogr. Ital. (Florence, 1899); " Die Korallcnriffc dcr Sinai-Halbinsel,” Abhandt. Math.-phys. GeselL Wiss., vol. xiv. (Leipzig, 1888); Meteorological Charts of the Red Sea (Meteorological Office, 1895); Report of the Voyage of the Russian Corvette “ Vitiaz” (1889); “ Bcnchte dcr Commission siir oceanographische Forschungcn,” 6th series, 1898 in vol. LXV. of the Denkschriften der K.K. Akademie der Wissenschaften (Vienna); also various notes and preliminary reports in the Sitzungsberickte of the Vienna Academy of Sciences; Report of the Voyage of H.M.S. “ Challenger“ Oceanic Circulation,” p. 30; J. Hann, Klimatologie (1897), vol. iii. p. 76.    (H. N. D.)
REDSHANK, the usual name of a bird—the Scolopax calidris of Linnaeus and Totanus calidris of modern authors—so called in English from the colour of the bare part of its legs, which, being also long, arc conspicuous as it flics or runs. In suitable localities it is abundant throughout the greater part of Europe and Asia, from Iceland to China, mostly retiring to the southward for the winter, though a considerable number remain during that season along the coasts and estuaries of some of the more northern countries. Before the great changes effected by drainage in England it was a common species in many districts, but at the present day there are very few to which it can resort for the purpose of reproduction. The body of the redshank is as big as a snipe’s, but its longer neck, wings and legs make it appear a much larger bird. Above, the general colour is greyish-drab, freckled with black, except the lower part of the back and a conspicuous band on each wing, which are white, while the flight-quills are black, thus producing a very harmonious effect. In the breeding season the back and breast are mottled with dark brown, but in winter the latter is white. The nest is generally concealed in a tuft of rushes or grass, a little removed from the wettest parts of the swamp whence the bird gets its sustenance, and contains four eggs, usually of a rather warmly tinted brown with blackish spots or blotches; but no brief description can be given that would point out their differences from the eggs of other birds, more or less akin, among which, those of the lapwing (?.r.) especially, they arc taken and find a ready sale.
The name Redshank, prefixed by some epithet as Black, Dusky or Spotted, has also been applied to a larger but allied species—
the Totanus fuscus of ornithologists. This is a much less common bird, and in Great Britain as well as the greater part of Europe it only occurs on its passage to or from its breeding-grounds, which are usually found south of the Arctic Circle, and differ much from those of its congeners—the spot chosen for the nest being nearly always in the midst of forests and, though not in the thickest part of them, often with trees on all sides, generally where a fire has cleared the undergrowth, and mostly at some distance from water. This peculiar habit was first ascertained by Wolley in Lapland in 1853 and the following year. The breeding-dress this bird assumes is also very remarkable, and seems (as is suggested) to have some correlation with the burnt and blackened surface interspersed with white stones or tufts of lichen on which its nest is made—for the head, neck, shoulders and lower parts are of a deep black, contrasting vividly with the pure white of the back and rump, while the legs become of an intense crimson. At other times of the year the plumage is very similar to that of the common redshank, and the legs are of the same light orange-red.    (A. N.)
REDSTART, a bird well known in Great Britain, in many parts of which it is called firetail—a name of almost the same meaning, since “ start ” is from the Anglo-Saxon steort a tail. This beautiful bird, Ruticilla phoenicurus, returns to England about the middle or towards the end of April, and at once takes up its abode in gardens, orchards and about old buildings, when its curious habit of flirting at nearly every change of position its brightly-coloured tail, together with the pure white forehead, the black throat, and bright bay breast of the cock, renders him conspicuous, even if attention be not drawn by his lively though intermittent song. The hen is much more plainly attired; but the characteristic colouring and action of the tail pertain to her equally as to her mate. The nest is almost always placed in a hole of a tree or building, and contains from five to seven eggs of a delicate greenish blue, occasionally sprinkled with faint red spots. The young on assuming their feathers present a great resemblance to those of the redbreast (q.v) at the same age; but the red tail, though of duller hue than in the adult, forms even at this early age an easy means of distinguishing them. The redstart breeds regularly in all the counties of England and Wales. It also reaches the extreme north of Scotland; but in Ireland it is very rare. It appears throughout the whole of Europe in summer, and is known to winter in the interior of Africa. Several very nearly allied forms occur in Asia; and one, R. aurorea, in Japan.
A congeneric species which has received the name of black redstart, Ruticilla titys,@@1 is very common throughout the greater part of the continent of Europe, where, from its partiality for gardens in towns and villages, it is often better known than the preceding species. It yearly occurs in certain parts of England, chiefly along or near the south coast, and curiously enough during the autumn and winter, since it is in central Europe only a summer visitor, and it has by no means the high northern range of R. phoenicurus. The males of the black redstart seem to be more than one year in acquiring their full plumage (a rare thing in Passerine birds), and since they have been known to breed in the intermediate stage this fact has led to such birds being accounted a distinct species under the name of R. cairii,  thereby perplexing ornithologists for a long while, though now almost all authorities agree that these birds are, in one sense, immature.
More than a dozen species of the genus Ruticilla have been described, and the greater number of them seem to belong to the Himalayan sub-region or its confines. One very pretty and interesting form is the R. moussieri of Barbary, which allies the redstart to the stone-chats (see Wheatear), and of late some authors have included it in that genus. In an opposite direction the bluethroats, apparently nearer to the redstarts than to any other type, arc placed in the genus Cyanecula, containing two or three distinguishable forms: (r) C. suecica, with a bright bay spot in the middle of its clear blue throat, breeding in Scandinavia, Northern Russia and Siberia, and wintering in Abyssinia and India, though rarely appearing in the intermediate countries, to the wonder of all who have studied the migration
@@@1 The orthography of the specific term would seem to be titis (Ann. Nat. History, ser. 4, x. p. 227), a word possibly cognate with the first syllable of titlark and titmouse.
of birds; (2) C. leucocyanea, with a white instead of a red gular spot, a more Western form, ranging from Barbary to > Germany and Holland; (3) C. woifi, with its throat wholly blue—a form of comparatively rare occurrence. The first of these is a not infrequent, though very irregular, visitant to England, while the second has appeared there but seldom, and the third never, so far as is known. The redstarts with their allies mentioned in this article belong to the subfamily Turdinae of the thrushes (?.v.).
In America the name redstart has been bestowed upon a bird which has some curious outward resemblance, both in looks and manners, to that of the Old Country, though the two are in the opinion of some systematists nearly as widely separated from each other as truly Passerine birds well can be. The American redstart is Setophaga ruticüla, belonging to the purely New-World family Mniotiltidae, and to a genus which contains about a dozen species, ranging from Canada (in summer) to Bolivia.    (A. N.)
RED WING, a city and the county seat of Goodhue county, Minnesota, U.S.A., on the W. bank of the Mississippi river, near the head of Lake Pepin, about 40 m. S.E. of St Paul. Pop. (1905,state census) 8149, 2138 being foreign-born; (1910) 9048. It is served by the Chicago Great Western and the Chicago, Milwaukee & St Paul railways. Red Wing is the seat of the Lutheran Ladies* Seminary (1894) and the Red Wing Theological Seminary (Lutheran, 1885), and in the vicinity is the State Training School for Boys and Girls, originally the Minnesota State Reform School. In the city are the Carnegie-Lawther library, a Federal building, a municipal theatre, the T. B. Sheldon Memorial Auditorium, in connexion with .which is a School of Music, a Y.M.C.A. building, a City Hospital, St John’s Hospital (1902) and an old ladies* home. Red Wing is an important wheat market and shipping point.
In 1695 Le Sueur built a post on Prairie Island, in the Mississippi, about 8 m. above the site of Red Wing, for the purpose, according to Charlevoix, of interposing a barrier between the warring Dakotas and Chippewas; and in 1727 René Boucher built on the shore of Lake Pepin a fort which, after various vicissitudes, was abandoned in 1753. An Indian village occupied the site of Red Wing probably for many years before the arrival of the first whites, two Swiss missionaries, Samuel Denton and Daniel Gavin, who maintained a mission here in 1837-46. In 1848 another mission was established by the American Board. Red Wing (named from an Indian chief) was platted in 1853 and was chartered as a city in 1857.
REDWING (Swed. Rodvinge, Dan. Rôddrossel, Ger. Rol-drossel, Du. Koperwiek)> a species of thrush (q.v.)t Turdus tiiacus, which is an abundant winter visitor to the British Islands, arriving in autumn generally about the same time as the fieldfare (ç.v.) does. This bird has its common English name@@1 from the sides of its body, its inner wing-coverts and axillaries being of a bright reddish orange, of which colour, however, there is no appearance on the wing itself while the bird is at rest, and not much is ordinarily seen while it is in flight. In other respects it is very like a song-thrush, and indeed in France and some other countries it bears the name mauvis or mavis, often given to that species in some parts of Britain; but a conspicuous white streak over the eye at once affords a ready diagnosis. The redwing breeds in Iceland, in the subalpine and arctic districts of Norway, Sweden and Finland, and thence across Northern Russia and Siberia, becoming scarce to the eastward of the Yenisei, and not extending beyond Lake Baikal. In winter it visits the whole of Europe and North Africa, occa-
@@@1 Many old writers assert that this bird used to be known in England as the “ swinepipe but, except in books, this name does not seem to survive to the present day. There is no reason, however, to doubt that it was once in vogue, and the only question is how it may have arisen. If it has not been corrupted from the German Weindrossel or some other similar name, it may refer to the soft inward whistle which the bird often utters, resembling the sound of the. pipe used by the swineherds of old when collecting the animals under their charge. Another form of the word (which may, however, be erroneous) is “ windpipe.” “ Whindle ” and ” wheenerd ” have also been given as old English names of this bird (Harl. Miscellany, 1st ed., 11. p. 558), and these may be referred to the local German Weindrustle and WinseL
sionally reaching Madeira, while to the eastward it is found at that season in Persia, and, it is said, at times in the northwestern Himalayas and Kohat. Many writers have praised the song of this bird, comparing it with that of the nightingale (q.v.); but herein they seem to have been as much mistaken as in older times was Linnaeus, who according to S. Nilsson (Om. Suecica, i. 177, note), failed to distinguish in life this species from its commoner congener 7\ musicus. Its nest and eggs a good deal resemble those of the blackbird, and have none of the special characters which distinguish those of the song-thrush.    (A. N.)
REDWITZ, OSKAR, Freiherr von (1823-1891), German poet, was born at Lichtenau, near Ansbach, on the 28th of June 1823. Having studied at the universities of Munich and Erlangen, he was apprenticed to the law in the Bavarian State service (1846-49). He next (1849-50) studied languages and literature at Bonn, and in 1851 was appointed professor of aesthetics and of the history of literature at Vienna. In 1852, however, he gave up this post and retired to his estate of Schellcnberg, near Kaiserslautern. The pious sentimentality of his romantic epic Amaranth (1849; 42nd ed., 1898) had already gained him enthusiastic admirers, and this work was followed, in 1850, by Ein Märchen and by Gedichte (1852) and the tragedy Sieglinde (1854). He next settled on his estates near Kronach, and here wrote the tragedy Thomas Morus (1856), the historical dramas Philippine Welser (1859) and Der Zunftmeister von Nürnberg (i860), of which the first two met with great success. Elected member of the Bavarian Second Chamber for the district in which he lived, he removed to Munich in 1862. In 1868 he published the novel Hermann Stark> deutsches Lebeny and in 1871 Das Lied vom neuen deutschen Reich (which contains several hundred patriotic sonnets). In 1872 he took up his residence at Meran, but passed the last years of his life at a sanatorium for nervous disorders near Bayreuth, where he died on the 6th of July 1891.
See R. Prutz, Die deutsche Literatur der Gegenwart (1870), i. pp. 148 ff.; H. Keiter, Zeitgenössische katholische Dichter Deutschlands (1884); H. von Völderndorff, Harmlose Plaudereien eines alten Müncheners (1892); M. M. Rabenlechner, O. von Redwitz' religiöser Entwicklungsgang (1897).
REED, ANDREW (1787-1862), English nonconformist divine and philanthropist, was born in London on the 27th of November 1787. He entered Hackney Independent College in 1807 and was ordained minister of New Road Chapel in 1811. About 1830 he built the larger Wycliffe Chapel, where he remained until 1861. He visited America on a deputation to the Congregational Churches in 1834 and received the degree of D.D. from Yale. Reed’s name is permanently associated with a long list of philanthropic achievements, including the London Orphan Asylum, the Infant Orphan Asylum and the Reedham Orphanage, which he undertook on non-denomi-national lines because the governors of the other institutions had made the Anglican Catechism compulsory. Besides these he originated in 1847 an asylum for idiots at Highgate, afterwards moved to Earlswood in Surrey with a branch at Colchester, and in 1855 the Royal Hospital for Incurables at Putney. He died on the 25th of February 1862. Besides an account of his visit to America (2 vols., 1834), he compiled a hymn-book (1841), and published some sermons and books of devotion.
His second son, Sir Charles Reed (1819-1881), was a successful typefounder and a keen supporter of popular education. As a common councillor of the city of London he developed the Guildhall Library of the City of London School. He was elected M.P. for Hackney (1868 and 1874) and for St Ives, Cornwall (1880), and served as chairman of the London School Board (1873-1881) in succession to Lord Lawrence. He was interested in antiquarian research and in philanthropic work, being an associate of George Peabody and an active worker in connexion with the Sunday School Union, the Bible Society, the Religious Tract Society and the London Missionary Society. His eldest son, Charles Edward Baines Reed (1845-1884) was
educated at Trinity College, Cambridge, and became Congregational minister at.Warminster (1871) and a secretary of the British and Foreign Bible Society. He was killed by a fall in Switzerland. Sir Charles Reed's third son, Talbot Baines Reed (1852-1893), educated at the City of London School, became managing director of his father's firm, and was one of the founders and secretary of the Bibliographical Society. He is best known as the author of popular boys' books.
REED, ISAAC (1742-1807), English Shakespearian editor, son of a baker, was born on New Year's Day, 1742, in London. He was articled to a solicitor, and eventually set up as a conveyancer at Staple Inn, where he had a considerable practice. His first important work was the Biographia dramatica (2 vols., 1782), consisting of biographies of the dramatists and a descriptive dictionary of their plays. This book, which was an enlargement of David Erskine Baker's Companion to the Playhouse (2 vols., 1764), was re-edited (3 vols.) by Stephen Jones in 1811, and is a valuable authority. The original work by Baker had been based on Gerard Langbaine's Account of the English Dramalick Poets (1691), Giles Jacob's Poetical Register (1719), Thomas Whincop's “List of all the Dramatic Authors " (printed with his tragedy of Scanderbcg, 1747) and the MSS. of Thomas Coxeter (1689-1747), an industrious antiquary who had collected much useful material. Reed's Notitia dramatica (Addit. MSS. 25390-2, British Museum), supplementary to the Biographiaf was never published. He revised Dodsley's Collection of Old Plays (12 vols., 1780). He also re-edited Johnson and Steevens's edition (1773) of Shakespeare. Reed’s edition was published in 10 vols. (1785), and he gave great assistance to Stcevens in his edition (1793). He was Steevens's literary executor, and in 1803 published another edition (21 vols.) based on Steevens's later collections. This, which is known as the first variorum, was re-issued ten years later. He died on the 5th of January 1807. His valuable library of theatrical literature was catalogued for sale as Bibliotheca Reediana (1807).
See John Nichol’s Lit. Anec. of the 18th Century (vol. ii.} 1812); and Edward Dowden, Essays, Modern and Elizabethan.
REED, JOSEPH (1741-1785), American politician, was born in Trenton, New Jersey, on the 27th of August 1741. He graduated at Princeton in 1757, studied law under Richard Stockton and, in 1763-65, at the Middle Temple, London, and practised in Trenton from 1765 until his removal to Philadelphia in 1770. He was president of the second Provincial Congress of Pennsylvania in 1775, was aide-de-camp and military secretary to General Washington in 1775-76, and was adjutant-general with the rank of colonel in 1776-77. He resigned his commission in the autumn of 1777, and in 1777-78 was a delegate to the Continental Congress. From December 1778 to October 1781 he was president of the state Executive Council. During his administration the proprietary rights of the Penn family were abrogated (1779), and provision was made for the gradual abolition of slavery (17S0). During this time Reed led the attack on Benedict Arnold ($.r.) for the latter's administration of Philadelphia. Reed was elected to Congress in 1784, but died in Philadelphia on the 5th of March 1785.
The Life and Correspondence of Joseph Reed (2 vols., Philadelphia, 1874), by his grandson, William B. Reed, is based upon the family papers. It pictures Reed as an heroic patriot and statesman; George Bancroft, on the other hand, in the ninth volume (p. 229) of his History (1866) and in Joseph Reed: an Historical Essay (1867), pictures him as a trimmer of the most pronounced type. Bancroft's principal charge against Reed was based on a passage in Count Donop’s diary referring to a Col. Reed protected by the British in 1776. In 3876, however, Mr W. S. Stryker discovered that the reference in the diary was really to Col. Charles Read (1715-c. 1780). Bancroft withdrew this definite charge in the 1876 edition of his History, in which, however, his tone towards Joseph Reed was unchanged.
Joseph Reed's son, Joseph Reed (1772-1846), published the Laws of Pennsylvania (5 vols., 1822-24), continuing the work of .Charles Smith, published in 1810-12, which began with the laws of 1700. His grandson, William Bradford Reed (1806-1876), graduated at the university of Pennsylvania in 1822, was a representative in the Pennsylvania legislature in 1834-35, attorney-general of the state in 1838, and a state senator in 1841. He was professor of American history in the university of Pennsylvania in 1850-56, United States minister to China in 1857-58, and in 1858 negotiated a treaty with China, proclaimed in i860. Besides the biography of his grandfather mentioned above, he published one of Joseph Reed's wife, Life of Esther De Berdt, afterwards Esther Reed
(185 3)·
W. Β. Reed's brother, Henry [Hope] Reed (1808-1854), graduated at the university of Pennsylvania in 1825, practised law in Philadelphia, and was assistant-professor of moral philosophy in the university of Pennsylvania in 1831-34 and professor of English literature and rhetoric there in 1835-54. He assisted Wordsworth in the preparation of an American edition of his poems in 1837, edited in America Christopher Wordsworth's Memoirs of William Wordsworth (1851) and published lectures on English Literature from Chhucer to Tennyson (1855).
REED, THOMAS BRACKETT (1839-1902), American statesman, was born in Portland, Maine, on the i8tb of October 1839. He graduated at Bowdoin College in i860; was acting assistant-paymaster in the U.S. navy from April 1864 to November 1865; and in 1865 was admitted to the bar. He was a member of the Maine House of Representatives in 1868-69 and of the state Senate in 1870, was attorney-general of the state in 1870-72, and was city solicitor of Portland in 1874-77. He was a Republican member of the National House of Representatives from 1877 until 1899; was a member of the Potter Committee to investigate the disputed presidential election of 1876, and conducted the examination of Samuel J. Tilden; and he was Speaker of the House in 1889-91, and in 1895-99. He was a “ strong " speaker in his control of the proceedings, and he developed an organized committee system, making the majority of the Committee on Rules consist of the speaker and chairman of the committees on ways and means and on appropriations. The “ Reed Rules," drawn up by him, William McIUnley and J. G. Cannon, were adopted on the 14th of February 1890; they provided that every member must vote, unless pecuniarily interested in a measure, that members present and not voting may be’ counted for a quorum, and that no dilatory motion be entertained by the speaker. His parliamentary methods were bitterly attacked by his political enemies, who called him “ Tsar Reed." He greatly hastened the passage of the McKinley Bill in 1890, and of the Dingley Bill in 1897. His rules and methods of control of legislation were adopted by his successors in the speakership, and the power of the Rules Committee was greatly increased under Charles F. Crisp (1845-1896), Democratic speaker in 1891-1895. After the war with Spain Reed broke with the administration on the issue of imperialism. He resigned his seat in 1899 and practised law in New York City. He died in Washington on the 7th of December 1902. Reed was a remarkable personality, of whom many good stories were told, and opinions varied as to his conduct in the chair; but he was essentially a .man of rugged honesty and power, whose death was a^ loss to American public life.
Reed's Rules were published as a parliamentary manual. He edited with others a Library of Modern Eloquence (10 vols., 1901). See the chapter on Reed in Η. B. Fuller’s Speakers of the House (Boston, 1909).
REED, a term applied to several distinct species of large, water-loving grasses. The common or water-reed, Phragmiles communis (also known as Arundo phragmiles), occurs along the margins of lakes, fens, marshes and placid streams, not only throughout Britain, but widely distributed in arctic and temperate regions. Another very important species in Ammophila arenaria (also known as A. arundinacca or Psamma arenaria), the sea-reed or marram-grass, a native of the sandy shores of Europe and N. Africa. Both species have been of notable geological importance, the former binding the soil and so impeding denudation, and actually converting swamp into dry land, largely by the
aid of its tall (5 to 10 ft.) close set stems. The latter species, of which the branching rootstocks may be traced 30 or even 40 ft., is of still greater importance in holding sand-dunes against the sea, and for this purpose has not only been long protected by law, but has been extensively planted on the coasts of Norfolk, Holland, Gascony, &c. Other reeds are Calamagrostis (various species),Gyneriutn argenteum (pampas grass), Deyeuxia, &c., also Arundo Donax, the largest European grass(6 to 12 ft. high), which is abundant in Europe. Reeds have been used from the earliest times in thatching and in other branches of construction, and also for arrows, the pipes of musical instruments, &c. Reed pens are still used in the East. Plants belonging to other orders occasionally share the name, especially the bur-reed (Sparganium) and the reed-mace (Typha), both belonging to the natural order Typhaceae. The bulrushes (Scirpus), belonging to the natural order Cyperaceae, are also to be distinguished.
REEDBUCK1 (Dutch rietbok), the popular name of a foxy red South African antelope (Cervicapra arundineum) of medium size, with a moderately long bushy tail, a bare gland-patch behind the ear, and in the male rather short horns which bend forwards in a regular curve. There are several other species of allied African antelopes included in the genus Cerjicapra to which the name of reedbuck is also applied, one of these ranging as far N. as Abyssinia, and another inhabiting W. Africa.
REED INSTRUMENTS (Fr. instruments d anche; Ger. Blas-instrumente mit Zungen; It. Strumenti a ancia), a class of wind instruments in the tubes of which sound-waves are generated by the vibrations of a reed mouthpiece. Reed instruments fall into two great classes: (1) those blown directly by the breath of the performer, who is thus able in all but a few obsolete instruments to express his emotional feelings in music; (2) those in which the wind supply is obtained by mechanical devices, such as the bag of bagpipe instruments or the bellows of such keyboard instruments as the regal, harmonium and kindred instruments.
, Directly-blown reed instruments comprise the section of modern wind instruments known as the “wood wind,” with the exception of flute and piccolo; they are classified according to the kind of reed vibrator of which the mouthpiece is composed. There are three kinds of reed mouthpieces: (1) the single or beating reed; (2) the double reed; (3) the free reed, all of which perform the function of sound-producer (see Mouthpiece and Free Reed Vibrator). The reed used consists of a thin tongue br strip of reed, cane or some elastic material, thinned gradually to a delicate edge. It is adapted to a resonating tube in such a manner that when it is at rest the opening at the mouthpiece end of the tube consists only of a very slight aperture or chink, which is periodically opened and closed by the pulsations of the Teed when acted upon by the compressed breath of the player. This principle is common to all reed mouthpieces, and. the difference.in timbre is in a measure due to the manner in which the pulsations are brought about and the degree of elasticity secured.
The double reed consists of two blades of reed or laminae of elastic material tightly bound together by many turns of] waxed -silk, so that above the construction the tube has an oval section; below, where it communicates with the main bore of the instrument, the tube is strictly cylindrical. The chink here is formed by two thin walls of reed of equal elasticity (see Oboe, Bassoon). The double reed is common to the members of the oboe family, consisting, besides the oboe, of the cor anglais or tenor, of the fagotto or bassoon, and of the contra fagotto or double bassoon. The double reed mouthpiece is used besides on thesarrusophone family, instruments of brass but classed with the wood wind on account of the mouthpiece and fingering.
The single or beating reed consists of a single blade bevelled at the edge and placed over a table or frame communicating with the main bore of the instrument, against which it beats, causing a series of pulsations. The single reed is common to ¡all the members of the clarinet family, consisting, besides the clarinet, of the basset-horn or tenor, and of the bass and pedal clarinets; of the batyphone, an early bass clarinet, and of the saxophone, a metal oboe with a beating reed instead of a double reed. The ancient Greek aulos was undoubtedly used with a beating reed during some period of its history.
The free reed is not represented among members of the modern wood wind, and, as adapted to a directly-blown instrument, only finds application in the Chinese chcng, the prototype of the harmonium, and in the mouth organ or harmonica.
The reed in wind instruments produces a peculiar tone quality to which it has given its name; it varies in the three different kinds of mouthpieces without losing the fundamental reedy timbre. In the single reed the impact against the hard wood or vulcanite of the table against which it beats produces a sound harsh and strident in inverse proportion to the degree of elasticity possessed by the vibrating tongue. In the clarinet the reed is carefully and delicately made of cane with due regard to the interdependence of reed and clarinet tube. The strong wooden or metallic beating reeds of the early organ reed pipes must have had an unpleasantly harsh timbre, which won for them in Germany the epithet Schnarrwerk.
In the double reed the two delicately shaped pieces of reed vibrate against each other, producing the somewhat nasal, reedy tone of the oboe family. In the free reed compressed air is the only buffer which the vibrator encounters while swinging through the aperture, alternately closing and reopening it; hence the soft and mellow timbre wr hich it is possible to produce by proper treatment of the free reed. Experience has shown that the best results for the double reed are obtained when it is used in conjunction with a tube of conical bore, whereas the beating reed is heard to greater advantage in instruments with cylindrical bore, one notable exception in practice being, as already mentioned, the saxophone family. * The double reed adapted to a conical tube confers upon the latter the acoustic properties of the open pipe, whose wave-length is equal to that of the tube and which is capable of overblowing the octave and successive harmonics (theoretically). Either a single or a double reed adapted to a cylindrical pipe converts it for all acoustic purposes into a closed pipe, in which the whole wavelength is twice the length of the tube, a node forming at the mouthpiece end. The fundamental note of such, a tube will therefore be an octave lower than that of an open pipe of the same length, and it can only overblow the uneven numbers of the harmonic series, such as the third harmonic (or twelfth above the fundamental).
In order to overblow" on instruments with reed mouthpieces, greater pressure of breath must be exerted, and the vibrating length of the reed must be decreased by the action of the lips upon it. This is what occurs in instruments of the oboe and clarinet type, which are blown directly from the mouth. There are, howxver, cases in which the reed is concealed within the instrument out of reach of the lips, either in a capsule, as in the old instruments hautbois de Poitou and cromorne, or else in a socket, as in the chaunter and drones of the bagpipe, or, again, as in the mouthpieces of organ reed pipes. In the last (each of which gives but one fixed note) the vibrating length of the reed tongue is fixed, as is also the pressure of the compressed air supply fed to them. The result in all these cases is similar: no harmonics can be obtained, and therefore the scale of the instrument depends solely on the number of holes and keys provided, whereas, where the lips control the reed, fewer holes are necessary to produce any given compass. The chaunters of bagpipes have double reeds, but the drones are as a rule provided with beating reeds and are of cylindrical bore, a combination which, for the reason explained above, gives them a note an octave deeper in pitch, the length of pipe being equal, than would be the case if the bore were conical. In the musette, in the cornemuse used in concert with the hautbois de Poitou, and in the Neapolitan surdelina (see Bagpipe), both chaunter and drones had double reeds.
The aulos of the ancient Greeks and tibia of the Romans consisted in the older instruments of a cylindrical tube of very narrow
bore, which facilitated the production of the harmonics. The aulos, though often erroneously translated flute, was an oboe or clarinet. Writers on musical instruments are not agreed as to which mouthpiece was in use on the aulos; the probability is that both were in use at one time or another, and that the double reed, being the most primitive and also the more adaptable, was lhe older contrivance. There is no sign of any suitable attachment for a beating reed on any of the pipes of ancient Greece extant, whereas among the ivory pipes recovered from the ruins of Pom pci i there is a fragment which may have been a beak mouthpiece with beating reed similar to that of the modern clarinet.
The ancient Egyptians used the primitive beating reed familiarly known as " squeaker,” obtained by making a slight lateral slit across a reed pipe or stem of straw, and with the knife splitting back longitudinally until a tongue was raised; the shorter the tongue the quicker the vibration and the higher the pitch. This small beating reed was then sunk some 3 or 4 in. within the main tube of the instrument; some of these reeds have been discovered in tombs by Professor Flinders Petrie.@@1 It is certain that the ancient Greeks did not use the reed in this form in the aulos, for classical writers distinctly describe the effect produced on a reed by taking it into the mouth, but it is equally certain that they were acquainted with the principle of the drone.
The history of the keyboard instruments furnishes instances of the early use of reeds. In the modern English church organ the reed work is provided with beating reeds only, but in Germany, for the sake of obtaining the power of expression, a set of free-reed stops is nearly always added.@@a It is probable that some of the early pneumatic and hydraulic organs (see Organ) at the beginning of our era were provided with beating reeds in imitation of the bagpipe chaunter and drones. In the middle ages the regal (g.r.), a small, portative reed-organ fitted with beating reeds, was extremely popular in England and all over the continent of Europe, but more especially in Germany and Italy.    (K. S.)
REEF (1) (Du. rif, cf. Ger. Riff, Swed. ref, &c., all from O. Nor. rif, rib), in physical geography, a narrow ridge of rock, shingle or sand culminating at or near the surface of the sea. In a transformed sense the word is used in mining of a vein or lode of gold-bearing quartz; (2) (Du. reef, rif, cf. Ger. Rejf, Swed. raf, O. Nor. rif, possibly a transferred sense of rif, rib), a part of a sail which can be rolled or folded up, thus diminishing the amount of canvas spread to the wind. In square sails, “ reefs ” are taken from the top, in fore-and-aft sails from the foot.
REEL (O.E. hriol, glossed by the Med. Lat. alibrum in A elf rips Glossary, c. 1050; the word is of unknown origin; it does not appear in cognate languages, and Celtic forms such as Gaelic ruidhU are from English), a cylinder or apparatus of .cylindrical shape on which a thread or line can be wound; c.g. the small wooden cylinder with projecting rims at either end on which sewing cotton or silk is wound for immediate use, the revolving “ click-reel ” attached to a fishing-rod, and the open revolving framework on which thread is wound as it is spun. The name of the Scottish dance (Gaelic righil, ruithil) is probably the same word (see Dance). In architecture, an ornamental moulding consisting of spherical-shaped bodies alternating with flat reel-shaped disks placed on edge is known as a “bead and reel" moulding.
REES, THOMAS (1777-1864), Welsh Nonconformist divine, was born at Gelligron, Glamorgan, and educated at the Presbyterian College, Carmarthen. He entered the Unitarian ministry in 1807 at Newington Green Chapel, London, removing to Southwark 1813 and to Stamford Street, Blackfriars, in 1823. He had the degree of LL.D. of Glasgow (1819). He had a great knowledge of the history of anti-trinitarian opinion, especially during the 16th century. His scattered papers, chiefly in the Monthly Repository (1818-22), on such subjects as “ Faustus Socinus and Francis David,” “ The Italian Reformation,” “ Memoirs of the Socini,” are important. Financial .troubles drove him to Spain in 1853, and he died in obscurity at Brighton on the 1st of August 1864.
Another Thomas Rees (1815-1885), native of Ten Pontbren, Carmarthenshire, held pastorates at Aberdare (1840). Llanelly (1842), Cendl, Mon. (1849) and Swansea (1S62),
@@@1 An illustration of one of these Is given in T. L. Southgate’s paper, “ The Regal and its Successors,” in English Music, 1604-1904, Music Story Scries, 1906, p. 385.
@@@* The addition dates from tne very end of the 18th or the beginning of the 10th century, and is connected with the advent of the harmonium (q.v.).
and became chairman of the Congregational Union of England and Wales, but died just before his term of office was to begin. His History of Protestant Nonconformity in Wales (1861; 2nd ed. 1883) is a sound and judicious piece of work.
REEVE, CLARA (1729-1807), English novelist, daughter of William Reeve, a Suffolk clergyman, was born at Ipswichin 1729. She was an industrious writer, and produced many works in prose and verse, including a history of the Progress of Romance (1785); but her only eminent success was the novel of The Old English Baron (1777), originally published under the title of The Champion of Virtue. In the history of the English novel she stands midway between Walpole and Mrs. Radcliffe. She died at Ipswich on the 3rd of December 1807.
REEVE, HENRY (1813-1895), English publicist, younger son of Henry Reeve, a well-known Whig physician and writer of Norwich, and nephew of Mrs. Sarah Austin, was born at Norwich on the 9th of September 1813. He was educated at the Norwich grammar school under Edward Valpy. During his holidays he saw a good deal of the young John Stuart Mill. In 1829 he studied at Geneva and mixed in Genevese society, then very brilliant, and including the Sismondis, Huber, Bonstetten, De Candolle, Rossil, Krasinski (his most intimate friend), and Mickiewicz, whose Paris he translated. During a visit to London in 1831 he was introduced to Thackeray and Carlyle, while through the Austins he made the acquaintance of other men of letters. Next year, in Paris, he met Victor Hugo, Cousin, and Scott. He travelled in Italy, sat under Schelling at Munich and under Tieck at Dresden, became in 1835-36 a frequenter of Madame de Circourt's salon, and numbered among his friends Lamartine, Lacordaire, De Vigny, Thiers, Guizot, Montalembert, and De Tocqueville, of whose books, Dinwcratie en Amirique and the Ancicn regime, he made standard translations into English. In 1837 he was made clerk of appeal and then registrar to the judicial committee of the Privy Council. From 1840 to 1855 he wrote for The Times, his close touch with men like Guizot, Bunsen, Lord Clarendon, and his own chief at the Privy Council Office, Charles Greville, enabfing him to write with authority on foreign policy during the critical period from 1848 to the end of the Crimean War. Upon the promotion of Sir George Come wall Lewis to the Cabinet early in 1855 Reeve was asked by Longman to edit the April number of the Edinburgh Review, to which his father had been one of the earliest contributors, and in the following July he became the editor. His friendship with the Orleanist leaders in France survived all vicissitudes, but he was appealed to for guidance by successive French ambassadors, and was more than once the medium of private negotiations between the English and French governments. In April 1863 he published what was perhaps the most important of his contributions to the Edinburgh—a searching review of Kinglake’s Crimea; and in 1872 he brought out a selection of his Quarterly and Edinburgh articles on eminent Frenchmen, entitled Royal and Republican France. Three years later appeared the first of three’instalments (1875, 1885 and 18S7) of his edition of the famous Memoirs which Charles Greville had placed in his hands a fewr  hours before his death in 1865. A purist in point of form and style, of the school of Macaulay and Milman, Reeve outlived his literary generation, and became eventually one of the most reactionary of old Whigs. Yet he continued to edit and upon the whole to maintain the reputation of the Edinburgh until his death at his seat of Foxholes, in Hants, on the 21st of October 1S95. He had been elected a member of “The Club” in 1861, and was made a D.C.L. by Oxford University in 1869, a C.B. in 1871, and a corresponding member of the French Institute in 1865. A striking panegyric w*as pronounced upon him by his lifelong friend, the due d’Aumale, before the Academie des Sciences in November 1895.
His Memoirs and Letters (2 vols., with portrait) were edited by Sir J. K. Laughton, in 1898.    (T. Se.) '
REEVE (0. E. gerefa), an English official who in early times was entrusted with the administration of a division of the country. He was the chief magistrate of a town or district,
and is the ancestor of the sheriff, the shire-reeve. In addition to the sheriff there were several kinds of reeves, and we are told in the body of laws known as the laws of Edward the Confessor that it is “ multiplex nomen; greve enim dicitur de scira, de wapentagiis, de hundredis, de burgis, de villis.” Thus we hear of port-reeves, burg-reeves, and tun-reeves, while the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle mentions high reeves. It was the tun-reeve or reve of the township who with four other men represented the township in the courts of the hundred and the shire. In free townships he was probably chosen by the inhabitants; in dependent townships by the lord. A little later there were manor reeves, these being elected by the villains; according to Fleta, their duties were to attend to the cultivation of the land, and to see that each villain performed his proper share of service. The reve of Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales was doubtless a steward or bailiff, something equivalent to the grieve in Scotland to-day.
In early English the word reeve was sometimes used as a translation for the prefect or governor of Roman and Jewish times. Some authorities have thought that there is some connexion between the Anglo-Saxon gerefa and the German Graf, but Max Muller (Lectures on the Science of Language, 1885) is inclined to doubt this. J. M. Kemble (Saxons in England, 1876), who goes at length into the history of the reeve, connects the word with rófan or réfan> to call aloud, this making him the original of the bannitor> or proclaimer of the court. At the present time the word reeve is sometimes used to describe a foreman or overseer in a coal mine. It is also used in Canada for the president of a village or town council.
REEVES, JOHN SIMS (1818-1900), English vocalist, was born at Woolwich on the 26th of September 1818, and received his musical education from his father, a musician in the Royal Artillery. At the age of fourteen he had progressed so far as to be appointed organist of North Cray church, and could play the oboe, bassoon, violin, and violoncello. He seems to have studied medicine for a year, but changed his mind when he gained his adult voice: it was at first a baritone, and he made his earliest appearance at Newcastle in 1839 in various baritone parts. He studied with Hobbs and T. Cooke, and, his voice having become a tenor, he appeared under Macready’s management at Drury Lane (1841-43) in subordinate tenor parts in Purcell’s King Arthur, Der Freischiitz, and Acts and Galatea, wdien Handel’s pastoral was mounted on the stage with Stanfield’s scenery. Four years were spent in study on the Continent, under Bordogni in Paris and Mazzucato in Milan, and his début in Italian opera was made at the Scala as Edgardo in Lucia. He reappeared in London in May 1847 at a benefit concert for Vincent Wallace, and at one of the Ancient Concerts in the following month, his career on the English operatic stage beginning at Drury Lane in December 1847 in Lucia, under the conductorship of Hector Berlioz. In Balfe’s Maid of Honour he created the part of Lyonnel in the same season. In 1848 he went to Her Majesty’s Theatre, singing in Linda di Chamounix; and in the autumn of that year, at the Norwich Festival, made a great sensation in 11 The enemy said,” from Israel in Egypt, a song in which the finest qualities of his ringing voice could be appreciated. From his first appearance at the Sacred Harmonic Society in the following November he was recognized as the leading English tenor; and in Costa’s Eli and Naaman the tenor parts were written for him. His first Handel Festival was that of 1857, and the effect of his wonderful declamation in the Crystal Palace was a main attraction of this and of many subsequent festivals. His retirement from public life, at first announced as to take place in 1882, did not actually occur till 1891, when a farewell concert for his benefit was given at the Albert Hall. His savings were invested in an unfortunate speculation, and he was compelled to reappear in public for a number of years. He died at Worthing on the 25th of October 1900.
REFECTORY (med. Lat. resectorium, from reficere, to refresh), the hall of a monastery, convent, &c., where the religious took their chief meals together. There frequently was a sort of ambo, approached by steps, from which to read the legenda sanctorum, &c., during meals. The refectory was generally situated by the side of the S. cloister, so as to be removed from the church but contiguous to the kitchen; sometimes it was divided down the centre into two aisles, as at Fountains Abbey in England, Mont St Michel in France and at Villiers in Belgium, and into three aisles as in St Mary’s, York, and the Bernardines, Paris. The refectory of St Martin-des-Champs in Paris is in two aisles, and is now utilized as the library of the ficole des Arts et Metiers. Its wall pulpit, with an arcaded staircase in the thickness of the wall, is still in perfect preservation.
REFEREE, a person to whom anything is referred; an arbitrator. The court of referees in England was a court to which the House of Commons committed the decision of all questions as to the right of petitioners to be heard in opposition to private bills. As originally constituted the referees consisted of the chairman of ways and means, and other members, the Speaker’s counsel and several official referees not members of the House of Commons. In 1903 the appointment of official referees was discontinued. The court now consists of the chairman of ways and means, the deputy chairman and not less than seven other members of the House appointed by the Speaker, and its duty, as defined by a standing order, is to decide upon all petitions against private bills, or against provisional orders or provisional certificates, as to the rights of the petitioners to be heard upon such petitions. In the high court of justice, under the Judicature Act 1873, cases may be submitted to three official referees, for trial, inquiry and report, or assessment of damages. Inquiry and report may be directed in any ease, trial only by consent of the parties, or in any matter requiring any prolonged examination of documents or accounts, or any scientific or local investigation which cannot be tried in the ordinary way.
REFERENDUM and INITIATIVE, two methods by which the wishes of the general body of electors in a constitutional state may be expressed with regard to proposed legislation. They are developed to the highest extent in Switzerland, and are best exemplified -in the Swiss federal and cantonal constitutions. By these two methods the sovereign people in Switzerland (whether in the confederation or in one of its cantons) approve or reject the bills and resolutions agreed upon by the legislative authority (Referendum), or compel that authority to introduce bills on certain specified subjects (Initiative)—in other words, exercise the rights of the people as regards their elected representatives at times other than general elections. The Referendum means “ that which is referred ” to the sovereign people, and prevailed (up to 1848) in the federal diet, the members of which were bound by instructions, all matters outside which being taken “ ad referendum.” A similar system obtained previously in the formerly independent confederations of the Grisons and of the Valais, in the former case not merely as between the Three Leagues, and even the bailiwicks of each within its respective league, but also (so far as regards the upper Engadine) the communes making up a bailiwick, though in the Valais the plan prevailed only as between the seven Zehnten or bailiwicks. The Initiative, on the other hand, is the means by which the sovereign people can compel its elected representatives to take into consideration either some specified object or a draft bill relating thereto, the final result of the deliberations of the legislature being subject by a referendum vote to the approval or rejection of the people. These two institutions therefore enable the sovereign people to control the decisions of the legislature, without having recourse to a dissolution, or waiting for the expiration of its natural term of office.
As might have been expected, both had been adopted by different cantons before they found their way into the federal constitution, which naturally has to take account of the sovereign rights of the cantons of which it is composed. Further, they (at any rate the referendum) were employed in the case of constitutional matters relating to cantonal constitutions before being applied to all or certain specified laws and resolutions. Finally, the action of both has been distinctly conservative in the case of the confederation, though to a less marked degree in the case of the cantons.
Two forms of the Referendum should be carefully distinguished: the facultative or optional (brought into play only on the demand of a fixed number of citizens), and the obligatory or compulsory (which obtains in all cases that lie within its sphere as defined in the constitution). The Initiative exists only in the facultative form, being exercised when a certain number of citizens demand it. Both came into common use during the Liberal reaction in Switzerland after the Paris revolution of July 1830. In 1831 St Gall first adopted the “ facultative referendum ” (then and for some time after called the “ Veto ”), and its example was followed by several cantons before 1848. The “obligatory referendum ” appears first in 1852 and 1854 respectively in the Valais and the Grisons, when the older system was reformed, but in its modern form it was first adopted in 1863 by the canton of rural Basel. The Initiative was first adopted in 1845 by Vaud. Of course the cantons with Landsgemeinden, Uri, Unterwalden, Appenzell and Glarus (where the citizens appear in person) possessed both from time immemorial. Excluding these there were at the end of 1907 9J cantons, which had the “ obligatory referendum ” (Aargau, rural Basel, Bern, the Grisons, Schafihausen, Schwyz, Soleure, Thurgau, the Valais and Zurich), while 7I cantons possess only the “ facultative referendum ” (Basel town, Geneva, Lucerne, Neuchâtel, St Gall, Ticino, Vaud and Zug). Fribourg alone had neither, save an obligatory referendum (like all the rest) as to the revision of the cantonal constitution. As regards the Initiative, all the cantons have it as to the revision of the cantonal constitution; while all but Fribourg have it also as to bills or legislative projects. In the case both of the facultative referendum and of the Initiative each canton fixes the number of citizens who have a right to exercise this powr er. The constitution of the Swiss confederation lags behind those of the cantons. It is true that both in 1848 (art. 113) and in 1874 (art. 120) it is provided that a vote on the question whether the constitution shall be revised must take place if either house of the federal legislature or 50,000 qualified voters demand it— of course a popular vote (obligatory referendum) must take place on the finally elaborated project of revision. But as regards bills the case is quite different. The “ facultative referendum ” was not introduced till 1874 (art. 89) and then only as regards all bills and resolutions not being of a pressing nature, 8 cantons or 30,000 qualified voters being entitled to ask for such a popular vote. But the Initiative did not appear in the federal constitution till it was inserted in 1891 (art. 121), and then merely in the case of a partial (not a total) revision of the constitution, if 50,000 qualified voters require it, whether as regards a subject in general or a draft bill,—of course the federal legislature had an Initiative in this matter in 1848 already. The results of the working of these two institutions in federal matters up to the end of 1908 are as follows. Excluding the votes by which the two federal constitutions of 1848 and 1874 were adopted, there have been 30 (10 of them between 1848 and 1874) votes (obligatory referendum) as to amendments of the federal constitution; in 15 cases only (of which only one was before 1874) did the people accept the amendment proposed. In the case of bills there have been 30 votes (very many bills have not been attacked at all), all of course since the facultative referendum was introduced in 1874; in 11 cases only have the people voted in the affirmative. Finally, with regard to the Initiative, there have been 7 votes, of which two only were in the affirmative. Thus, between 1874 and 1907, of 57 votes 27 only were in the affirmative, while if we include the 10 votes between 1848 and 1874 the figures are respectively 67 and 28, one only having been favourable during that period. The result is to show that the people, voting after mature reflection, are far less radically disposed than has sometimes been imagined.
The method of referendum by itself is also in use in some of the states of the American Union (see United States) and in Australia, and under the name of plébiscite has been employed in France; but it is best studied in the Swiss constitution.
Authorities.—W. A. B. Coolidge, “ The Early Histoiy of the Referendum M (article in the English Historical Review lor October 1891); T. Curti, Die schweizerischen Volksreckte, 1848 bis 1900 (Bern, 1900) (Fr. trans. by J. Roniat with additions by the author, Paris, 1905)—Curti’s earlier work, Geschichte d. scnweiz. Volks-gesetzgebung (Bern, 1882), is not entirely superseded by his later one; S. Dcploigc, The Referendum in Switzerland, Engl, trans. with additional notes (London, 1898); N. Droz, “ The Referendum in Switzerland ” (article in the Contemporary Review, March 1895); J. M. Vincent, Government in Switzerland, chaps, v. and xiv. (New York and London, 1900). See also, for the United States and generally, the American works on the Referendum by E. P. Ober-noltzer (1893 and 1900).    (W. A. B. C.)
REFLECTION OF LIGHT. When a ray of light in a homogeneous medium falls upon the bounding surface of another medium, part of it is usually turned back or reflected and part is scattered, the remainder traversing or being absorbed by the second medium. The scattered rays (also termed the irregularly or diffusely reflected rays) play an important part in rendering objects visible—in fact, without diffuse reflection non-luminous objects would be invisible; they are occasioned by irregularities in the surface, but are governed by the same law as holds for regular reflection. This law is; the incident and reflected rays make equal angles with the normal to tbe reflecting surface at the point of incidence, and arc coplanar with the normal. This is equivalent to saying that the path of the ray is a minimum.@@1 In fig. 1 , MN represents the section of a plane mirror; OR is the incident ray, RP the reflected ray, and TR the normal at R. Then the law states that the angle of incidence ORT equals the angle of reflection PRT, and that OR, RT and RP are in the same plane.
This natural law is capable of ready experimental proof (a simple one is to take the altitude of a star with a meridian circle, its depression in a horizontal reflecting surface of mercury and the direction of the nadir), and the most delicate instruments have failed to detect any divergence from it. Its explanation by the Newtonian corpuscular theory is very simple, for we have only to assume that at the point of impact the perpendicular velocity of a corpuscle is reversed, whilst the horizontal velocity is unchanged (the mirror being assumed horizontal). The wave-theory explanation is more complicated, and in the simple form given by Huygens incomplete. The theory as developed by Fresnel shows that regular reflection is due to a small zone in the neighbourhood of the point R (above), there being destructive interference at all other points on the mirror; this theory also accounts for the polarization of the reflected light when incident at a certain angle (see Polarization of Light). The smoothness or polish of the surface largely controls the reflecting power, for, obviously, crests and furrows, if of sufficient magnitude, disturb the phase relations. The permissible deviation from smoothness depends on the wave-length of the light employed; it appears that surfaces smooth to within jth of a wave-length reflect regularly; hence long waves may be regularly reflected by a surface which diffuses short waves. Also the obliquity of the incidence would diminish the effect of any irregularities; this is experimentally confirmed by observing the images produced by matt surfaces or by smoked glass at grazing incidence.
We now give some elementary constructions of reflected rays, or, what comes to the same thing, of images formed by mirrors.
1. If O be a luminous point and OR a ray incident at R on the plane mirror MN (fig. 1) to determine the reflected ray and the 'image of O. If RP be the reflected ray and RT perpendicular
@@@1 This principle of the minimum path, however, only holds for plane and convex surfaces; with concave surfaces it may be a maximum in certain cases.
to MN, then, by the law of reflection, angle ORT = TRP or ORM=PRN. Hence draw OQ perpendicular to MN, and
produce it to S, making QS = OQ; join SR and produce to P. It is easily seen that PR and OR are equally inclined to RT (orMN). A point-eye at P would see a point object 0 at S, i.e. at a distance below the mirror equal to its height above. If the object be a solid, then the images of its corners are formed by taking points at the same distances below as the corners are above the mirror, and joining these points. The eye, however, sees the image perverted, i.e., in the same relation as the left hand to the right. Fig. 2 shows how an extended object is viewed in a mirror by a natural eye.
2.    If A, B be two parallel plane mirrors and O a luminous point between them (fig. 3) to determine the images of O all the
images must lie on the line (produced) PQ passing through O and perpendicular to the mirrors. Let OP =£, OQ = q. Then if O' be the image of O in A, 00'= 2p; now O' has an image O' in B, such that 00* = OQ-\-QO* = q-\-q-\-2p = 2p-\-2q; similarly O" has an image O'" in A, such that 00'" =4^+2?. In the same way 0 forms an image Oi in B such that OOi = 2q\ Oi has an image On in A, such that OOn = 2^+23; On has an image Om in B, such that OOni=?p+43i .and so on. Hence there are an infinite number of images at definite distances from the mirrors. This explains the vistas as seen, for example, between two parallel mirrors at the ends of a room.
3.    If A, B be two plane mirrors inclined at an angle Θ, and intersecting at C, and O a luminous point between them, determine the position and number of images.
Call are OA = a, 0B=/3. The image of O in A, i.e. a', is such that Oa' is perpendicular to CA, and Οα' = 2α. Also Ca' = CO; and it is easily seen that all the images lie on a circle of centre C and radius CO. The image a' forms an image a" in B such that Oa" * = OB + Ba*'=0+Ba'=j8-|-OB4-Oa' — 2β-\-2α = 2θ. Also a" forms an image a'" in A such that θα'" =ΟΑ+Αα' = 2α-[-20. And generally Οα2η = 2η0, Οα2η+1 = 2η0+2α. In the same way it can be shown that the image first formed in B gives foci of the general distances: 062n = 2ηθ, 062n+1 = 2ηθ-{-2β. The number,of images is limited, for when any one falls on the are ab between the mirrors produced, it lies behind both mirrors, and hence no further image is possible. Suppose αίη be the first image to fall on this are, then are Οα2η >ΟΒα, i.e. 2ηθ>π — a of 2n> (ττ-α)/0. Similarly if a2ft+1 be the first to fall on ab, we obtain 2η+ι> (ττ — α)/θ. Hence in both cases the number of images is the integer next greater than (τ — α)/θ. In the same way it can be shown that the number of images of the b series is the integer next greater than (τΓ—β)/θ. If τγ/Θ be an integer, then the number ot images of each series is Trie, for a/0 and β/θ are proper fractions. But an image of each series coincides; for if ττ/θ = 2η, we have Οα2η +Ο62η = 2η0-1-2η0 = 27Γ i.e. a2 *1 and 62n coincide; and if *r/0 = 2»+i, we have Oa2n +1 + O62ft+1 = 4n04-2(a-b/3) = (4«_|-2) ρ — 2 r, i.e. a2n+l and δ2 ”*1 coincide. Hence the number of images, including the luminous point, is 2π/θ. This principle is utilized in the kaleidoscope (q.v.), which produces five images by means of its mirrors inclined at 6o° (fig. 4). Fig. 5 shows the seven images formed by mirrors inclined at 45
4.    To determine the reflection at a spherical surface. Let APB (fig. 6) be a section of a concave spherical mirror through its centre O and luminous point U. If a ray, say UP, meet the surface, it will be reflected along PV, which is coplanar with UP and the normal PO at P, and makes the angle VPO = UPO. Hence VO/VP = OU/UP. This expression may be simplified if we assume P to be very close to A, i.e. that the ray UP is very slightly inclined to the axis. Writing A for P, we have VO/AV=OU/AU; and calling AU=w, AV=v and AO = r, this reduces to irl +ir1 *=2r~1 .
This formula connects the distances of the object and image formed by a spherical concave mirror with the radius of the mirror. Points satisfying this relation are called "conjugate foci,” for obviously they are reciprocal, i.e. u and v can be interchanged in the formula.
If u be infinite, as, for example, if the luminous source.be a star, then v-1 = 2r-1 , i.e. v = 1/2r. This value is called the focal length of
the mirror, and the corresponding point, usually denoted by F, is called the " principal focus.” This formula requires modification for a convex mirror. If u be always considered as positive (v may be either positive or negative), r must be regarded as positive with concave mirrors and negative with convex. Similarly the focal length, having the same sign as r, has different signs in the two cases.
In this formula all distances are measured from the mirror; but it is sometimes more convenient to measure from the principal focus. If the distances of the object and image from the principal focus be x and y, then u = x+f and v = y+f (remembering that f is positive for concave and negative for convex mirrors). Substituting these values in u-l +v-l and reducing we obtain xy=p. Since is always positive, x and y must have the same sign, i.e. the object and image must lie on the same side of the principal focus.
We now consider the production of the image of a small object placed symmetrically and perpendicular to the axis of a concave (fig. 7) and a convex mirror (fig. 8). Let PQ be the object and A
the vertex of the mirror. Consider the point P. Now a ray through P and parallel to the axis after meeting the mirror at M is reflected through the focus F. The line MF must therefore contain the image of P. Also a ray through P and also through the centre of curvature C of the mirror is reflected along the same path; this also contains the image of P. Hence the image is at P, the intersection of the lines MF and PC. Similarly the image of any other point can be found, and the final image deduced. We notice that in fig. 6 the image is inverted and real, and in fig. 7 erect and virtual. The " magnification ” or ratio of the size of the image to the object can be deduced from the figures by elementary geometry; it equals the ratio of the distances of the image and object from the mirror or from the centre of curvature of the mirror.
The positions and characters of the images for objects at varying
distances are shown in the table (F is the principal focus and C the centre of curvature of the mirror MA).
The above discussion of spherical mirrors assumes that the mirror has such a small aperture that the reflected rays from any point unite in a point. This, however, no longer holds when the mirror has a wide aperture, and in general the reflected rays envelop a caustic {q.v., see also Aberration). The only mirror which can sharply reproduce an object-point as an image-point has for its section an ellipse, which is so placed that the object and image are at its foci. This follows from a property of the curve, viz. the sum of the focal distances is constant, and that the focal vectores are equally inclined to the normal at the point. More important than the elliptical mirror, however, is the parabolic, which has the property-
eof converting rays parallel to the axis into a pencil through its ; or, inversely, rays from a source placed at the focus are converted into a parallel beam; hence the use of this mirror in searchlights and similar devices.
REFORMATION, THE. The Reformation, as commonly understood, means the religious and political revolution of the 16th century, of which the immediate result was the partial disruption of the Western Catholic Church and the establishment of various national and territorial churches. These agreed in repudiating certain of the doctrines, rites and practices of the medieval Church, especially the sacrifice of the Mass and the headship of the bishop of Rome, and, whatever their official designations, came generally to be known as “ Protestant.” In some cases they introduced new systems of ecclesiastical organization, and in all they sought to justify their innovations by an appeal from the Church’s tradition to the Scriptures. The conflicts between Catholics and Protestants speedily merged into the chronic political rivalries, domestic and foreign, which distracted the European states; and religious considerations played a very important part in diplomacy and war for at least a century and a half, from the diet of Augsburg in 1530 to the English revolution and the league of Augsburg, 1688-89. The terms “ Reformation ” and “ Protestantism ” are inherited by the modern historian; they are not of his devising, and come to him laden with reminiscences of all the exalted enthusiasms and bitter antipathies engendered by a period of fervid religious dissension. The unmeasured invective of Luther and Aleander has not ceased to re-echo, and the old issues are by no means dead.
The heat of controversy is, however, abating, and during the past thirty or forty years both Catholic and Protestant investigators have been vying with one another in adding to our knowledge and in rectifying old mistakes; while an ever-increasing number of writers pledged to neither party are aiding in developing an idea of the scope and nature of the Reformation which differs radically from the traditional one. We now appreciate too thoroughly the intricacy of the medieval Church; its vast range of activity, secular as well as religious; the inextricable interweaving of the civil and ecclesiastical governments; the slow and painful process of their divorce as the old ideas of the proper functions of the two institutions have changed in both Protestant and Catholic lands: we perceive alP^oo clearly the limitations of the reformers, their distrust of reason and criticism—in short, we know too much about medieval institutions and the process of their disintegration longer to see in the Reformation an abrupt break in the general history of Europe. - No one will, of course, question the importance of the schism which created the distinction between Protestants and Catholics, but it must always be remembered that the religious questions at issue comprised a relatively small part of the whole compass of human aspirations and conduct, even to those to whom religion was especially vital, while a large majority of the leaders in literature, art, science and public affairs went their way seemingly almost wholly unaffected by theological problems.
That the religious elements in the Reformation have been greatly overestimated from a modern point of view can hardly be questioned, and one of the most distinguished students of Church history has ventured the assertion that “ The motives, both remote and proximate, which led to the Lutheran revolt were largely secular rather than spiritual.” “ We may,” continues Mr H. C. Lea, “ dismiss the religious changes incident to the Reformation with the remark that they were not the object sought, but the means for attaining the object. The existing ecclesiastical system was the practical evolution of dogma, and the overthrow of dogma was the only way to obtain permanent relief from the intolerable abuses of that system ” {Cambridge Modern History, i. 653). It would perhaps be nearer the truth to say that the secular and spiritual interests intermingled and so permeated one another that it is almost impossible to distinguish them clearly even in thought, while in practice they were so bewilderingly confused that they were never separated, and were constantly mistaken for one another.
The first step in clarifying the situation is to come to a full realization that the medieval Church was essentially an international statei and that the character of the Protestant secession from it was largely determined by this fact.
As Maitland suggests: “ We could frame no acceptable definition of a State which would not comprehend the Church. What has it not that a State should have ? It has laws, law givers, law courts, lawyers. It uses physical force to compel men to obey the laws. It keeps prisons. In the 13th century, though with squeamish phrases, it pronounced sentence of death. It is no voluntary society; if people are not born into it they are baptized into it when they cannot help themselves. If they attempt to leave they are guilty of crimen laesae majestatis, and are likely to be burned. It is supported by involuntary contributions, by tithe and tax ” {Canon Law in the Church of England, p. 100). The Church was not only organized like a modem bureaucracy, but performed many of the functions of a modern State. It dominated the intellectual and profoundly affected the social interests of western Europe. Its economic influence was multiform and incalculable, owing to its vast property, its system of taxation and its encouragement of monasticism. When Luther made his first great appeal to the German people in his Address to the German Nobility, he scarcely adverts to religious matters at all. He deals, on the contrary, almost exclusively with the social, financial, educational, industrial and general moral problems of the day. If Luther, who above all others had the religious issue ever before him, attacks the Church as a source of worldly disorder, it is not surprising that his contemporary Ulrich von Hutten should take a purely secular view of the issues involved. Moreover, in the fascinating collection of popular satires and ephemeral pamphlets made by Schade, one is constantly impressed with the absence of religious fervour, and the highly secular nature of the matters discussed. The same may be said of the various Gravamina, or lists of grievances against the papacy drafted from time to time by German diets.
But not only is the character of the Reformation differently conceived from whaUit once was; our notions of the process of change are being greatly altered. Formerly,
Writers accounted for the Lutheran movement by so magnifying the horrors of the pre-existing regime that it appeared intolerable, and its abolition consequently inevitable. Protestant writers once contented themselves with a brief caricature of the Church,
a superficial account of the traffic in indulgences, and a rough and ready assumption, which even Kostlin makes, that the darkness was greatest just before the dawn. Unfortunately this crude solution of the problem proved too much; for conditions were no worse immediately before the revolt than they had been for centuries, and German complaints of papal tyranny go back to Hildegard of Bingen and Walther von der Vogelweide, who antedated Luther by more than three centuries. So a new theory is logically demanded to explain why these conditions, which were chronic, failed to produce a change long before it actually occurred. Singularly enough it is the modern Catholic scholars, Johannes Janssen above all, who, in their efforts further to, discredit the Protestant revolt by rehabilitating the institutions which the reformers attacked, have done most to explain the success of the Reformation. A humble, patient Bohemian priest, Hasak, set to work toward half a century ago to bring together the devotional works published during the seventy years immediately succeeding the invention of printing. Every one knows that one at least of these older books, The German Theology, was a great favourite of Luther’s; but there are many more in Hasak’s collection which breathe the same spirit of piety and spiritual emulation. Building upon the foundations laid by Hasak and other Catholic writers who have been too much neglected by Protestant historians, Janssen produced a monumental work in defence of the German Church before Luther’s defection. He exhibits the great achievements of the latter part of the 15th and the early portion of the 16th centuries; the art and literature, the material prosperity of the towns and the fostering of the spiritual life of the people. It may well be that his picture is too bright, and that in his obvious anxiety to prove the needlessness of an ecclesiastical revolution he has gone to the opposite extreme from the Protestants. Yet this rehabilitation of pre-Reformation Germany cannot but make a strong appeal to the unbiased historical student who looks to a conscientious study of the antecedents of the revolt as furnishing the true key to the movement.
Outwardly the Reformation would seem to have begun when, on the 10th of December 1520, a professor in the university of Wittenberg invited all the friends of evangelical truth among his students to assemble outside the wall at the ninth hour to witness a pious spectacle— the burning of the “ godless book of the papal decrees.” He committed to the flames the whole body of the canon law, together with an edict of the head of the Church which had recently been issued against his teachings. In this manner Martin Luther, with the hearty sympathy of a considerable number of his countrymen, publicly proclaimed and illustrated his repudiation of the papal government under which western Europe had lived for centuries.    Within a genera
tion after this event the states of north Germany and Scandinavia, England, Scotland, the Dutch Netherlands and portions of Switzerland, had each in its particular manner permanently seceded from the papal monarchy. France, after a long period of uncertainty and disorder, remained faithful to the bishop of Rome. Poland, after a defection of years, was ultimately recovered for the papacy by the zeal and devotion of the Jesuit missionaries. In the Habsburg hereditary dominions the traditional policy and Catholic fervour of the ruling house resulted, after a long struggle, in the restoration of the supremacy of Rome; while in Hungary the national spirit of independence kept Calvinism alive to divide the religious allegiance of the people. In Italy and Spain, on the other hand, the rulers, who continued loyal to the pope, found little difficulty in suppressing any tendencies of revolt on the part of the few converts to the new doctrines. Individuals, often large groups, and even whole districts, had indeed earlier rejected some portions of the Roman Catholic faith, or refused obedience to the ecclesiastical government; but previously to the burning of the canon law by Luther no prince had openly and permanently cast off his allegiance to the international ecclesiastical state of which the bishop of Rome was head. Now, a prince or legislative assembly that accepted the doctrine of Luther, that the temporal power had been “ ordained by God for the chastisement of the wicked and the protection of the good ” and must be permitted to exercise its functions “ unhampered throughout the whole Christian body, without respect to persons, whether it strikes popes, bishops, priests, monks, nuns, or whoever else ”—such a government could proceed to ratify such modifications of the Christian faith as appealed to it in a particular religious confession; it could order its subject to conform to the innovations, and could expel, persecute or tolerate dissenters, as seemed good to it. A “ reformed ” prince could seize the property of the monasteries, and appropriate such ecclesiastical foundations as he desired. He could make rules for the selection of the clergy, disregarding the ancient canons of the Church and the claims of the pope to the right of ratification. He could cut off entirely all forms of papal taxation and put an end to papal jurisdiction. The personnel, revenue, jurisdiction, ritual, even the faith of the Church, were in this way placed under the complete control of the territorial governments. This is the central and significant fact of the so-called Reformation. Wholly novel and distinctive it is not, for the rulers of Catholic countries, like Spain and France, and of England (before the publication of the Act of Supremacy) could and did limit the pope’s claims to unlimited jurisdiction, patronage and taxation, and they introduced the placet forbidding the publication within their realms of papal edicts, decisions and orders, without the express sanction of the government—in short, in many ways tended to approach the conditions in Protestant lands. The Reformation was thus essentially a stage in the disengaging of the modern state from that medieval, international ecclesiastical state which had its beginning in the ecclesia of the Acts of the Apostles. An appreciation of the issues of the Reformation— or Protestant revolt, as it might be more exactly called—depends therefore upon an understanding of the development of the papal monarchy, the nature of its claims, the relations it established with the civil powers, the abuses which developed in it and the attempts to rectify them, the sources of friction between the Church and the government, and finally the process by which certain of the European states threw off their allegiance to the Christian commonwealth, of which they had so long formed a part.
It is surprising to observe how early the Christian Church assumed the form of a state, and how speedily upon entering into its momentous alliance with the Roman imperial government under Constantine it acquired the chief privileges and prerogatives it was so long to retain.
In the twelfth book of the Theodosian Code we see the foundations of the medieval Church already laid; for it was the 4th, not the 13th century that established the principle that defection from the Church was a crime in the eyes of the State, and raised the clergy to a privileged class, exempted from the ordinary taxes, permitted under restrictions to try its own members and to administer the wealth which flowed into its coffers from the gifts of the faithful. The bishop of Rome, who had from the first probably enjoyed a leading position in the Church as “ the successor of the two most glorious of the apostles,” elaborated his claims to be the divinely appointed head of the ecclesiastical organization. Siricius (384-389), Leo the Great (440-461), and Gelasius I. (492-496) left little for their successors to add to the arguments in favour of the papal supremacy. In short, if we recall the characteristics of the Church in the West from the times of Constantine to those of Theodoric—its reliance upon the civil power for favours and protection, combined with its assumption of a natural superiority over the civil power and its innate tendency to monarchical unity—it becomes clear that Gregory VII. in his effort in the latter half of the nth century to establish the papacy as the great central power of western Europe was in the main only reaffirming and developing old claims in a new world. His brief statement of the papal powers as he
conceived them is found in his Dictatus. The bishop of Rome, who enjoys a unique title, that of “ pope,” may annul the decrees of all other powers, since he judges all but is judged by none. He may depose emperors and absolve the subjects of the unjust from their allegiance. Gregory's position was almost inexpugnable at a time when it was conceded by practically all that spiritual concerns were incalculably more momentous than secular, that the Church was rightly one and indivisible, with one divinely revealed faith and a system of sacraments absolutely essential to salvation.. No one called in question the claim of the clergy to control completely all “ spiritual ” matters. Moreover, the mightiest secular ruler was but a poor sinner dependent for his eternal welfare cn the Church and its head, the pope, who in this way necessarily exercised an indirect control over the civil government, which even the emperor Henry IV. and William the Conqueror would not have been disposed to deny. They would also have conceded the pope the right to play the rôle of a secular ruler in his own lands, as did the German bishops, and to dispose of such fiefs as reverted to him. This class of prerogatives, as well as the right which the pope claimed to ratify the election of the emperor, need not detain us, although they doubtless served in the long run to weaken the papal power. But the pope laid claim to a direct power over the civil governments. Nicholas II. (1058-1061) declared that Jesus had conferred on Peter the control (jura) of an earthly as well as of a heavenly empire; and this phrase was embodied in the canon law. Innocent III., a century and a half later, taught that Janies the brother of the Lord left to Peter not only the government of the whole Church, but that of the whole world (totum seculum gubernandum).@@ So the power of the pope no longer rested upon his headship of the Church or his authority as a secular prince, but on a far more comprehensive claim to universal dominion. There was no reason why the bishop of Rome should justify such acts as Innocent himself performed in deposing King John of England and later in annulling Magna Carta; or Gregory IV. when he struck out fourteen articles from the Sachsenspiegel; or Nicholas V. when he invested Portugal with the right to subjugate all peoples on the Atlantic coast; or Julius II. when he threatened to transfer the kingdom of France to England; or the conduct of those later pontiffs who condemned the treaties of Westphalia, the Austrian constitution of 1867 and the establishment of the kingdom of Italy. The theory and practice of papal absolutism was successfully promulgated by Gratian in his Dccretum, completed at Bologna about 1142. This was supplemented by later collections composed mainly of papal decretals. (See Canon Law and Decretals, False.) As every fully equipped university had its faculty of canon law in which the Corpus juris canonici was studied, Rashdall is hardly guilty of exaggeration when he says: “ By means of the happy thought of the Bolognese monk the popes were enabled to convert the new-born universities—the offspring of that intellectual new birth of Europe which might have been so formidable an enemy to the papal pretensions—into so many engines for the propagation of Ultramontane ideas.” Thomas Aquinas was the first theologian to describe the Church as a divinely organized absolute monarchy, whose head concentrated in his person the entire authority of the Church, and was the source of all the ecclesiastical law (conditor juris), issuing the decrees of general councils in his own name, and claiming the right to revoke or modify the decrees of former councils—indeed, to make exceptions or to set aside altogether anything which did not rest upon the dictates of divine or natural law. In practice the whole of western Europe was subject to the jurisdiction of one tribunal of last resort, the Roman Curia. The pope claimed the right to tax church property throughout Christendom. He was able to exact an oath of fidelity from the archbishops, named many of the bishops, and asserted the right to transfer and dispose them. The organs of this vast monarchy were the papal Curia, which first appears distinctly in the nth century (see Curia Roman a), and the legates, who visited the courts of Europe as haughty representatives of the central government of Christendom.
@@@1 See further, Innocent III.
It should always be remembered that the law of the Church was regarded by all lawyers in the later middle ages as the law common to all Europe (jus commune). The laws of the Carolingian empire provided that one excommunicated by the Church who did not make his peace within a year and a day should be outlawed, and this general principle was not lost sight of. It was a capital offence in the eyes of the State to disagree with the teachings of the Church, and these, it must be remembered, included a recognition of the papal supremacy. The civil authorities burnt an obstinate heretic, condemned by the Church, without a thought of a new trial. The emperor Frederick II.’s edicts and the so-called ¿lablissements of St Louis provide that the civil officers should search out suspected heretics and deliver them to the ecclesiastical judges. The civil government recognized monastic vows by regarding a professed monk as civilly dead and by pursuing him and returning him to his monastery if he violated his pledges of obedience and ran away. The State recognized the ecclesiastical tribunals and accorded them a wide jurisdiction that we should now deem essentially secular in its nature. The State also admitted that large classes of its citizens—the clergy, students, crusaders, widows and the miserable and helpless in general—were justiceable only by Church tribunals. By the middle of the 13th century many lawyers took the degree of doctor of both laws (J.U.D.), civil and canon, and practised both. As is well known, temporal rulers constantly selected clergymen as their most trusted advisers. The existence of this theocratic international state was of course conditioned by the weakness of the civil government. So long as feudal monarchy continued, the Church supplied to some extent the deficiencies of the turbulent and ignorant princes by endeavouring to maintain order, administer justice, protect the weak and encourage learning. So soon as the modern national state began to gain strength, the issue between secular rulers and the bishops of Rome took a new form. The clergy naturally stoutly defended the powers which they had long enjoyed and believed to be rightly theirs. On the other hand, the State, which could count upon the support of an ever-increasing number of prosperous and loyal subjects, sought to protect its own interests and showed itself less and less inclined to tolerate the extreme claims of the pope. Moreover, owing to the spread of education, the king was no longer obliged to rely mainly upon the assistance of the clergy in conducting his government.
The chief sources of friction between Church and State were four in number. First, the growth of the practice of'“ reservation ” and “ provision,” by which the popes assumed the right to appoint their own nominees to vacant secs and other benefices, in defiance of the claims of the crown, the chapters and private patrons. In the case of wealthy bishoprics or abbacies this involved a serious menace to the secular authority. Both pope and king were naturally anxious to place their own friends and supporters in these influential positions. The pope, moreover, had come to depend to a considerable extent for his revenue upon the payments made by his nominees, which represented a corresponding drain on the resources of the secular states. Secondly, there was the great question, how far the lands and other property of the clergy should be subject to taxation. Was this vast amount of property to increase indefinitely without contribution to the maintenance of the secular government? A decretal of Innocent III. permitted the clergy to make voluntary contributions to the king when there was urgent necessity, and the resources of the laity had proved inadequate. But the pope maintaihed that, except in the most critical cases, his consent must be obtained for such grants. Thirdly, there was the inevitable jealousy between the secular and ecclesiastical courts and the serious problem of the exact extent of the original and appellate jurisdiction of the Roman Curia. Fourthly, and lastly, there was the most fundamental difficulty of all, the extent to which the pope, as the universally acknowledged head
of the Church, was justified in interfering in the internal affairs of particular states. Unfortunately, most matters could be viewed from both a secular and religious standpoint; and even in purely secular affairs the claims of the pope to at least indirect control were practically unlimited. The specific nature of the abuses which flourished in the papal monarchy, the unsuccessful attempts to remedy them, and the measures taken by the chief European states to protect themselves will become apparent as wc hastily review the principal events of the 14th and 15th centuries.
As one traces the vicissitudes of the papacy during the two centuries from Boniface VIII. to Leo X. one cannot fail to be impressed with the almost incredible strength of the ecclesiastical state which had been organized and fortified by Gregory VII., Alexander III., Innocent III. and Gregory IX. In spite of the perpetuation of all the old abuses and the continual appearance of new devices for increasing the papal revenue; in spite of the jealousy of kings and princes, the attacks of legists and the preaching of the heretics; in spite of seventy years of exile from the holy city, forty years of distracting schism and discord, and thirty years of conflict with stately oecumenical councils deliberating in the name of the Holy Spirit and intent upon permanently limiting the papal prerogatives; in spite of the unworthy conduct of some of those who ascended the papal throne, their flagrant political ambitions, and their greed; in spite of the spread of knowledge, old and new, the development of historical criticism, and philosophical speculation; in spite, in short, of every danger which could threaten the papal monarchy, it was still intact when Leo X. died in 1521. Nevertheless, permanent if partial dissolution was at hand, for no one of the perils which the popes had seemingly so successfully overcome had failed to weaken the constitution of their empire; and it is impossible to comprehend its comparatively sudden disintegration without reckoning with the varied hostile forces which were accumulating and combining strength during the 14th and 15th centuries. The first serious conflict that arose between the developing modern state and the papacy centred about the pope’s claim that the property of the clergy was normally exempt from royal taxation. Boniface VIII. was forced to permit Edward I. and Philip the Fair to continue to demand and receive subsidies granted by the clergy of their realms. Shortly after the bitter humiliation of Boniface by the French government and his death in 1303, the bishop of Bordeaux was elected pope as Clement V. (1305). He preferred to remain in France, and as the Italian cardinals died • they were replaced by Frenchmen. The papal court was presently established at Avignon, on the confines of France, where it remained until 1377. While the successors of Clement V. were not so completely under the control of the French kings as has often been alleged, the very proximity of the curia to France served inevitably to intensify national jealousies. The claims of John XXII. (1316-1334) to control the election of the emperor called forth the first fundamental and critical attack on the papal monarchy, by Marsiglio of Padua, who declared in his Defensor pacts (1324) that the assumed supremacy of the bishop of Rome was without basis, since it was very doubtful if Peter was ever in Rome, and in any case there was no evidence that he had transmitted any exceptional prerogatives to succeeding bishops. But Marsiglio’s logical and elaborate justification for a revolt against the medieval Church produced no perceptible effects. The removal of the papal court from Rome to Avignon, however, not only reduced its prestige but increased the pope’s chronic financial embarrassments, by cutting off the income from his own dominions, which he could no longer control, while the unsuccessful wars waged by John XXII., the palace building and the notorious luxury of some of his successors, served enormously to augment the expenses. Various devices were resorted to, old and new, to fill the treasury. The fees of the Curia were raised for the numberless favours, dispensations, absolutions, and exemptions of all kinds which were sought by clerics and laymen. The right claimed by the pope to fill benefices of all kinds was extended, and the amount contributed to the pope by his nominees amounted to from a third to a half of the first year’s revenue (sec Annates). Boniface VIII. had discovered a rich source of revenue in the jubilee, and in the jubilee indulgences extended to those who could not come to Rome. Clement VI. reduced the period between these lucrative occasions from one hundred to fifty years, and Urban VI. determined in 1389 that they should recur at least once in a generation (every thirty-three years). Church offices, high and low, were regarded as investments from which the pope had his commission.
England showed itself better able than other countries to defend itself against the papal control of church preferment. From 1343 onward, statutes were passed by parliament forbidding any one to accept a papal provision, and cutting off all appeals to the papal curia or ecclesiastical courts in cases involving benefices. Nevertheless, as a statute of 1379 complains, benefices continued to be given “ to divers people of another language and of strange lands and nations, and sometimes to actual enemies of the king and of his realm, which never made residence in this same, nor cannot, may not, nor will not in any wise bear and perform the charges of the same benefice in hearing confessions, preaching or teaching the people.” When, in 1365, Innocent VI. demanded that tbe arrears of the tribute promised by King John to the pope should be paid up, parliament abrogated the whole contract on the ground that John had no right to enter into it. A species of anti-clerical movement, which found an'unworthy leader in John of Gaunt, developed at this time. The Good Parliament of 1376 declared that, in spite of the laws restricting papal provisions, the popes at Avignon received five times as much revenue from England as the English kings themselves. Secularization was mentioned in parliament. Wycliffe began his public career in 1366 by proving that England was not bound to pay tribute to the pope. Twelve years later he was, like Marsiglio, attacking the very foundations of the papacy itself, as lacking all scriptural sanction. He denounced the papal government as utterly degraded, and urged that the vast property of the Church, which he held to be the chief cause of its degradation, should be secularized and that the clergy should consist of “ poor priests,” supported only by tithes and alms. They should preach the gospel and encourage the people to seek the truth in the Scriptures themselves, of which a translation into English was completed in 1382. During the later years of his life he attacked the doctrine of transubstantiation, and all the most popular institutions of the Church—indulgences, pilgrimages, invocation of the saints, relics, celibacy of the clergy, auricular confession, &c. His opinions were spread abroad by the hundreds of sermons and popular pamphlets written in English for the people (see Wycliffe). For some years after Wycliffe’s death his followers, the Lollards, continued to carry on his work; but they roused the effective opposition of the conservative clergy, and were subjected to a persecution which put an end to their public agitation. They rapidly disappeared and, except in Bohemia, Wycliffe’s teachings left no clearly traceable impressions. Yet the discussions he aroused, the attacks he made upon the institutions of the medieval Church, and especially the position he assigned to the Scriptures as the exclusive source of revealed truth, serve to make the development of Protestantism under Henry VIII. more explicable than it would otherwise be.
Wycliffe’s later attacks upon the papacy had been given point by the return of the popes to Rome in 1377 and the opening of the Great Schism which was to endure for forty years. There had been many anti-popes in the past, but never before had there been such prolonged and genuine doubt as to which of two lines of popes was legitimate, since in this case each was supported by a college of cardinals, the one at Rome, the other at Avignon. Italy, except Naples, took the side of the Italian pope; France, of the Avignon pope; England, in its hostility to France,
sided with Urban VI. in Rome, Scotland with Clement VII., his rival; Flanders followed England; Urban secured Germany, Hungary and the northern kingdoms; while Spain, after remaining neutral for a time, went over to Clement. Western Christendom had now two papal courts to support. The schism extended down to the bishoprics, and even to the monasteries and parishes, where partisans of the rival popes struggled to obtain possession of sees and benefices. The urgent necessity for healing the schism, the difficulty of uniting the colleges of cardinals, and the prolonged and futile negotiations carried on between the rival popes inevitably raised the whole question of the papal supremacy, and led to the search for a still higher ecclesiastical authority, which, when the normal system of choosing the head of the Church broke down, might re-establish that ecclesiastical unity to which all Europe as yet clung. The idea of the supreme power on earth of a general council of Christendom, deliberating in the name of the Holy Spirit, convoked, if necessary, independently of the popes, was defended by many, and advocated by the university of Paris. The futile council of Pisa in 1409, however, only served to increase to three the number of rival representatives of God on earth. The considerable pamphlet literature of the time substantiates the conclusion of an eminent modern Catholic historian, Ludwig Pastor, who declares that the crisis through which the church passed in this terrible period of the schism was the most serious in ail its history. It was at just this period, when the rival popes were engaged in a life-and-death struggle, that heretical movements appeared in England, France, Italy, Germany, and especially in Bohemia, which threatened the whole ecclesiastical order.
The council of Constance assembled in 1414 under auspices hopeful not only for the extinction of the schism but for the general reform of the Church. Its members showed no patience with doctrinal innovations, even such moderate ones as John Huss represented. They turned him over to the secular arm for execution, although they did not thereby succeed in checking the growth of heresy in Bohemia (see Huss). The healing of the schism proved no very difficult matter; but the council hoped not only to restore unity and suppress heresy, but to re-establish general councils as a regular element in the legislation of the Church. The decree Sacrosancta (April 1415) proclaimed that a general council assembled in the Holy* Spirit and representing the Catholic Church militant had its power immediately from Christ, and was supreme over every one in the Church, not excluding the pope, in all matters pertaining to the faith and reformation of the Church of God in head and members. The decree Frequens (October 1417) provided for the regular convocation of councils in the future. As to ecclesiastical abuses the council could do very little, and finally satisfied itself with making out a list of those which the new pope was required to remedy in co-operation with the deputies chosen by the council. The list serves as an excellent summary of the evils of the papal monarchy as recognized by the unimpeachably orthodox. It included: the number, character and nationality of the cardinals, the abuse of the “ reservations ” made by the apostolic see, the annates, the collation to benefices, expectative favours, cases to be brought before the papal Curia (including appeals), functions of the papal chancery and penitentiary, benefices in commcndatn, confirmation of elections, income during vacancies, indulgences, tenths, for what reasons and how is a pope to be corrected or deposed. The pope and the representatives of the council made no serious effort to remedy the abuses suggested under these several captions; but the idea of the superiority of a council over the pope, and the right of those who felt aggrieved by papal decisions to appeal to a future council, remained a serious menace to the theory of papal absolutism. The decree Frequens was not wholly neglected; though the next council, at Siena, came to naught, the council at Basel, whose chief business was to put an end to the terrible religious war that had been raging between the Bohemians and Germans, was destined to cause Eugenius IV. much anxiety. It reaffirmed the decree Sacrosancta, and refused to recognize the validity of a bull Eugenius issued in December 1431 dissolving it. Two years later political reverses forced the pope to sanction the existence of the council, which not only concluded a treaty with the Bohemian heretics but abolished the papal fees for appointments, confirmation and consecration—above all, the annates—and greatly reduced papal reservations; it issued indulgences, imposed tenths, and established rules for the government of the papal states. France, however, withdrew its support from the council, and in 1438, under purely national auspices, by the famous Pragmatic Sanction of Bourges, adjusted the relations of the Gallican Church to the papacy; and Eugenius soon found himself in a position to repudiate the council and summoned a new one to assemble in 1438 at Ferrara under his control to take up the important question of the pending union with the Greek Church. The higher clergy deserted the council of Basel, and left matters in the hands of the lower clergy, who chose an anti-pope; but the rump council gradually lost credit and its lingering members were finally dispersed. The various nations were left to make terms with a reviving papacy. England had already taken measures to check the papal claims. France in the Pragmatic Sanction reformulated the claim of the councils to be superior to the pope, as well as the decision of the council of Basel in regard to elections, annates and other dues, limitations on ecclesiastical jurisdiction, and appeals to the pope. While the canonical elections were re-established, the prerogatives of the crown were greatly increased, as in England. In short, the national ecclesiastical independence of the French Church was established. The German diet of Regensburg (1439) ratified in the main the decrees of the council of Basel, which clearly gratified the electors, princes and prelates; and Germany for the first time joined the ranks of the countries which subjected the decrees of the highest ecclesiastical instance to the placet or approval of the civil authorities. But there was no strong power, as in England and France, to attend to the execution of the provisions.
In 1448 Eugenius’s successor, Nicholas V., concluded a concordat with the emperor Frederick III. as representative of the German nation. This confined itself to papal appointments and the annates. In practice it restored the former range of papal reservations, and extended the papal right of appointment to all benefices (except the higher offices in cathedrals and collegiate churches) which fell vacant during the odd months. It also accorded him the right to confirm all newly elected prelates and to receive the annates. Nothing was said in the concordat of a great part of the chief subjects of complaint. This gave the princes an excuse for the theory that the decrees of Constance and Basel were still in force, limiting the papal prerogatives in all respects not noticed in the concordat. It was Germany which gave the restored papacy the greatest amount of anxiety during the generation following the dissolution of the council of Basel. In the “ recesses ” or formal statements issued at the conclusion of the sessions of the diet one can follow the trend of opinion among the German princes, secular and ecclesiastical. The pope is constantly accused of violating the concordat, and constant demands are made for a general council, or at least a national one, which should undertake to remedy the abuses. The capture of Constantinople by the Turks afforded a new excuse for papal taxation. In 1453 a crusading bull was issued imposing a tenth on all benefices of the earth to equip an expedition against the infidel. The diet held at Frankfort in
1456    recalled the fact; that the council of Constance had forbidden the pope to impose tenths without the consent of the clergy in the region affected, and that it was clear that he proposed to “ pull the German sheep’s fleece over its ears.” A German correspondent · of Aeneas Sylvius assures him in
1457    that “ thousands of tricks are devised by the Roman see which enables it to extract the money from our pockets very
neatly, as if we were mere barbarians. Our nation, once so famous, is a slave now, who must pay tribute, and has lain in the dust these many years bemoaning her fate.” Aeneas Sylvius issued, immediately after his accession to the papacy as Pius II. the bull Execrabilis forbidding all appeals to a future council. This seemed to Germany to cut off its last hope. It found a , spokesman in the vigorous Gregory of Heimburg, who accused the pope of issuing the bull so that he and his cardinals might conveniently pillage Germany unhampered by the threat of a council. “ By forbidding appeals to a council the pope treats us like slaves, and wishes to take for his own pleasures all that we and our ancestors have accumulated by honest labour. He calls me a chatterer, although he himself is more talkative than a magpie.” Heimburg’s denunciations of the pope were widely circulated, and in spite of the major excommunication he was taken into the service of the archbishop of Mainz and was his representative at the diet of Nuremberg in 1462. It is thus clear that motives which might ultimately lead to the withdrawal of a certain number of German princes from the papal ecclesiastical state were accumulating and intensifying during the latter half of the 15th century.
It is impossible to review here the complicated political history of the opening years of the 16th century. The names of Charles VIII. and Louis XII. of France, of Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain, of Henry VII. and Henry VIII. of England, of Maximilian the German king, of Popes Alexander VI., Julius II. and Leo X., stand for better organized civil governments, with growing powerful despotic heads; for a perfectly worldly papacy absorbed in the interests of an Italian principality, engaged in constant political negotiations with the European powers which are beginning to regard Italy as their chief field of rivalry, and are using its little states as convenient counters in their game of diplomacy and war. It was in Germany, however, seemingly the weakest and least aggressive of the European states, that the first permanent and successful revolts against the papal monarchy occurred. Nothing came of the lists of German gravamina, or of the demands for a council, so long as the incompetent Frederick III. continued to reign. His successor, Maximilian, who was elected emperor in 1493, was mainly preoccupied with his wars and attempts to reform the constitution or the empire; but the diet gave some attention to ecclesiastical reform. For instance, in 1501 it took measures to prevent money raised by the grantirfg of a papal indulgence from leaving the country. After the disruption of the league of Cambray, Maximilian, like Louis XII., was thrown into a violent anti-curial reaction, and in 1510 he sent to the well-known humanist, Joseph Wimpheling, a copy of the French Pragmatic Sanction, asking his advice and stating that he had determined to free Germany from the yoke of the Curia and prevent the great sums of money from going to Rome. Wimpheling in his reply rehearsed the old grievances and complained that the contributions made to the pope by the archbishops on receiving the pallium was a great burden on the people. He stated that that of the' archbishop of Mainz had been raised from ten to twenty-five thousand gulden, and that there had been seven vacancies within a generation, and consequently the subjects of the elector had been forced to pay that amount seven times. But Wimpheling had only some timid suggestions to make, and, since Maximilian was once more on happy terms with the pope, political considerations served to cool completely his momentary ardour for ecclesiastical reform. In 1514 the archbishopric of Mainz fell vacant again, and Albert of Brandenburg, already archbishop of Magdeburg and administrator of Halberstadt, longing to add it to his possessions, was elected. After some scandalous negotiations with Leo X. it was arranged that Albert should pay 14,000 ducats for the papal confirmation and 10,000 as a “ composition ” for permission to continue to hold, against the rules of the Church, his two former archbishoprics. Moreover, in order to permit him to pay the sums, he was to have half the proceeds in his provinces from an indulgence
granted to forward the rebuilding of St Peter’s. A Dominican monk, Johann Tetzel, was selected to proclaim the indulgence (together with certain supplementary graces) iA the three provinces of the elector. This suggestion came from the curia, not the elector, whose representatives could not suppress the fear that the plan would arouse opposition and perhaps worse. Tetzel’s preaching and the exaggerated claims that he was reported to be making for the indulgences attracted the attention of an Augustinian friar, Martin Luther, who had for some years been lecturing on theology at the university of Wittenberg. He found it impossible to reconcile TetzePs views of indulgences with his own fundamental theory ol salvation. He accordingly hastily drafted ninety-five propositions relating to indulgences, and posted an invitation to those who wished to attend a disputation in Wittenberg on the matter, under his presidency. He points out the equivocal character of the word poenitentia, which meant both “ penance ” and “ penitence ”; he declared that “ true contrition seeks punishment, while the ampleness of pardons relaxes it and causes men to hate it.” Christians ought to be taught that he who gives to a poor man or lends to the needy does better than if he bought pardons. He concludes with certain “ keen questionings of the laity,” as, Why does not the pope empty purgatory forthwith for charity’s sake, instead of cautiously for money ? Why does he not, since he is rich as Croesus, build St Peter’s with his own money instead of taking that of poor believers ? It was probably these closing reflections which led to the translation of the theses from Latin into German, and their surprising circulation. It must not be assumed that Luther’s ninety-five theses produced any considerable direct results. They awakened the author himself to a consciousness that his doctrines were after all incompatible with some of the Church’s teachings, and led him to consider the nature of the papal power which issued the indulgence. Two or three years elapsed before Luther began to be generally known and to exercise a perceptible influence upon affairs.
In July 1518 a diet assembled in Augsburg to consider the new danger from the Turks, who were making rapid conquests under Sultan Selim I. The pope’s representative,
Cardinal Cajetan, made it clear that the only safety lay in the collection of a tenth from the clergy and a twentieth from laymen; but the diet appointed a committee to consider the matter and explain why they proposed to refuse the pope’s demands. Protests urging the diet not to weaken came in from all sides. There was an especially bitter denunciation of the Curia by some unknown writer. He claims that “ the pope bids his collectors go into the whole world, saying, * He that believeth, and payeth the tenths, shall be saved.’ But it is not necessary to stand in such fear of the thunder of Christ’s vicar, but rather to fear Christ Himself, for it is the Florentine’s business, not Christ’s, that is at issue.” The report of the committee of the diet was completed on the 27th of August 1518. It reviews all the abuses, declares that the German people are the victims of war, devastation and dearth, and that the common man is beginning to comment on the vast amount of wealth that is collected for expeditions against the Turk through indulgences or otherwise, and yet no expedition takes place. This is the first recognition in the official gravamina of the importance of the people. Shortly after the committee submitted its report the clergy of Liege presented a memorial which, as the ambassador from Frankfort observed, set forth in the best Latin all the various forms of rascality of which the curiizanen (i.e. euriales, officials of the curia) were guilty. From this time on three new streams begin to reinforce the rather feeble current of official efforts for reform. The common man, to whom the diet of Augsburg alludes, had long been raising his voice against the “parsons” (Psaffen); the men of letters, Brand, Erasmus, Reuchiin, and above all Ulrich von Hutten, contributed, each in their way, to discredit the Roman Curia; and lastly, a new type of theology, represented chiefly by Martin Luther, threatened to sweep away the very foundations of the papal monarchy.
The growing discontent of the poor people, whether in country or town, is clearly traceable in Germany during the 15th century, and revolutionary agitation was chronic in southern Germany at least during the first two decades of the 16th. The clergy were satirized and denounced in popular pamphlets and songs. The tithe was an oppressive form of taxation, as were the various fees demanded for the performance of the sacraments. The so-called “ Reformation of Sigismund,” drawn up in 1438, had demanded that the celibacy of the clergy should be abandoned and their excessive wealth reduced. “ It is a shame which cries to heaven, this oppression by tithes, dues, penalties, excommunication, and tolls of the peasant, on whose labour all men depend for their existence.” In 1476 a poor young shepherd drew thousands to Nicklashausen to hear him denounce the emperor as a rascal and the pope as a worthless fellow, and urge the division of the Church’s property among the members of the community. The “ parsons ” must be killed, and the lords reduced to earn their bread by daily labour. An apocalyptic pamphlet of 1508 shows on its cover the Church upside down, with the peasant performing the services, while the priest guides the plough outside and a monk drives the horses. Doubtless the free peasants of Switzerland contributed to stimulate disorder and discontent, especially in southern Germany. The conspiracies were repeatedly betrayed and the guilty parties terribly punished. That discovered in 1517 made a deep impression on the authorities by reason of its vast extent, and doubtless led the diet of Augsburg to allude to the danger which lay in the refusal of the common man to pay the ecclesiastical taxes. “ It was into this mass of seething discontent that the spark of religious protest fell—the one thing needed to fire the train and kindle the social conflagration. This was the society to which Luther spoke, and its discontent was the sounding board which made his words reverberate.” @@1  On turning from the attitude of the peasants and poorer townspeople to that of the scholars, we find in their writings a good deal of harsh criticism of the scholastic theology, satirical allusions to the friars, and, in Germany, sharp denunciations of the practices of the Curia. But there are many reasons for believing that the older estimate , of the influence of the so-called Renaissance, or “ new learning,” in promoting the Protestant revolt was an exaggerated one. The class of humanists which had grown up in Italy during the 15th century, and whose influence had been spreading into Germany, France and England during the generation immediately preceding the opening of the Protestant revolt, represented every phase of religious feeling from mystic piety to cynical indifference, but there were very few anti-clericals among them. The revival of Greek from the time of Chryso-loras onward, instead of begetting a Hellenistic spirit, transported the more serious-minded to the nebulous shores of Neo-Platonism, while the less devout became absorbed in scholarly or literary ambitions, translations, elegantly phrased letters, clever epigrams or indiscriminate invective. It is true that Lorenzo Valla (d. 1457) showed the Donation of Constantine to be a forgery, denied that Dionysius the Areopagite wrote the works ascribed to him, and refuted the commonly accepted notion that each of the apostles had contributed a sentence to the Apostles’ Creed. But such attacks were rare and isolated and were not intended to effect a breach in the solid ramparts of the medieval Church, but rather to exhibit the ingenuity of the critic. In the libraries collected under humanistic influences the patristic writers, both Latin and Greek, and the scholastic doctors are conspicuous. Then most of the humanists were clerics, and in Italy they enjoyed the patronage of the popes. They not unnaturally showed a tolerant spirit on the whole toward existing institutions, including the ecclesiastical abuses, and, in general, cared little how long the vulgar herd was left in the superstitious darkness which befitted their estate, so long as the superior man was permitted to hold discreetly any views he pleased. Of this attitude Mutian (1471-1526), the German humanist who perhaps approached most nearly the Italian type, furnishes a good illustration. He believed that Christianity had existed from all eternity, and that the Greeks and Romans, sharing in God’s truth, would share also in the celestial 'joys. Forms and ceremonies should only be judged as they promoted the great object of life, a clean heart and a right spirit, love to God and one’s neighbour. He defined faith as commonly understood to mean “ not the conformity of what we say with fact, but an opinion upon divine things founded upon credulity which seeks after profit.” “ With the cross,” he declares, “ we put our foes to flight, we extort money, we consecrate God, we shake hell, we work miracles.”
@@@1 Lindsay.
These reflections were, however, for his intimate friends, and like him, his much greater contemporary, Erasmus, abhorred anything suggesting open revolt or revolution. The extraordinary popularity of Erasmus is a sufficient indication that his attitude of mind was viewed with sympathy by the learned, whether in France, England, Germany, Spain or Italy. »He was a firm believer in the efficacy of culture. He maintained that old prejudices would disappear with the progress of knowledge, and that superstition and mechanical devices of salvation would be insensibly abandoned. The laity should read their New Testament, and would in this way come to feel the true significance of Christ’s life and teachings, which, rather than the Church, formed the centre of Erasmus’s religion. The dissidence of dissent, however, filled him with uneasiness, and he abhorred Luther’s denial of free will and his exaggerated notion of man’s utter depravity; in short, he did nothing whatever to promote the Protestant revolt, except so far as his frank denunciation and his witty arraignment of clerical and monastic weaknesses and soulless ceremonial, especially in his Praise of Folly and Col-loquies, contributed to bring the faults of the Church into strong relief, and in so far as his edition of the New Testament furnished a simple escape from innumerable theological complications.
A peculiar literary feud in Germany served, about 1515, to throw into sharp contrast the humanistic party, which had been gradually developing during the previous fifty years, and the conservative, monkish, scholastic group, who found their leader among the Dominicans of the university of Cologne. Johann Reüchlin, a well-known scholar, who had been charged by the Dominicans with heresy, not only received the support of the newer type of scholars, who wrote him encouraging letters which he published under the title Epistolae clarorum virorum, but this collection suggested to Crotus Rubianus and Ulrich von Huttcn one of the most successful satires of the ages, the Epistolae obscur orum virorum. As Creighton uT ell said, the chief importance of the “ Letters of Obscure Men ” lay in its success in popularizing the conception of a stupid party which was opposed to the party of progress. At the same time that the Neo-Platonists, like Ficino and Pico de la Mirandola, and the pantheists, whose God wr as little more than a reverential conception of the universe at large, and the purely worldly humanists, like Celtes and Bebel, were widely diverging each by his own particular path from the ecclesiastical Weltanschauung of the middle ages, Ulrich von Hutten was busy attacking the Curia in his witty Dialogues, in the name of German patriotism. He, at least, among the well-known scholars eagerly espoused Luther’s cause, as he understood it. A few of the humanists became Protestants—Melanchthon, Bucer, Oecolampadius and others—but the great majority of them, even if attracted for the moment by Luther’s denunciation of scholasticism, speedily repudiated the movement. In Socinianism (see below) wT e have perhaps the only instance of humanistic antecedents leading to the formation of a religious sect.
A new type of theology made its appearance at the opening of the 16th centuryin sharp contrast with the Aristotelian scholasticism of the Thomists and Scotists. This was due to the renewed enthusiasm for, and appreciation of,
St Paul with which Erasmus sympathized, and which found an able exponent in England in John Colet and in France in Lefèvre of Étaples (Faber Stapulensis).
Luther wr as reaching somewhat similar view's at the same time,
although in a strikingly different manner and with far more momentous results for the western world. Martin Luther was beyond doubt the most important single figure in the Protestant revolt. His influence was indeed by no means so decisive and so pervasive as has commonly been supposed, and his attacks on the evils in the Church were no bolder or more comprehensive than those of Marsiglio and Wycliffe, or of several among his contemporaries who owed nothing to his example. Had the German princes not found it to their interests to enforce his principles, he might never have been more than the leader of an obscure mystic sect. He was, moreover, no statesman. He was recklessly impetuous in his temperament, coarse and grossly superstitious according to modern standards. Yet in spite of all these allowances he remains one of the great heroes of all history. Few come in contact with his writings without feeling his deep spiritual nature and an absolute genuineness and marvellous individuality which seem never to sink into mere routine or affectation. In his more important works almost every sentence is alive with that autochthonic quality which makes it unmistakably his. His fundamental religious conception was his own hard-found answer to his own agonized question as to the nature and assurance of salvation. Even if others before him had reached the conviction that the Vulgate's word justitia in Romans i. 16-17 meant “ righteousness ” rather than “ justice ” in a juridical sense, Luther exhibited supreme religious genius in his interpretation of u God's righteousness '' (Gerechtigkeit) as over against the “ good works '' of man, and in the overwhelming importance he attached to the promise that the just shall live by faith. It was his anxiety to remove everything that obscured this central idea which led him to revolt against the ancient Church, and this conception of faith served, when he became leader of the German Protestants, as a touchstone to test the expediency of every innovation. But only gradually did he come to realize that his source of spiritual consolation might undermine altogether the artfully constructed fabric of the medieval Church. As late as 1516 he declared that the life of a monk was never a more enviable one than at that day. He had, however, already begun to look sourly upon Aristotle and the current scholastic theology, which he believed hid the simple truth of the gospel and the desperate state of mankind, who were taught a vain reliance upon outward works and ceremonies, when the only safety lay in throwing oneself on God's mercy. He was suddenly forced to take up the consideration of some of the most fundamental points in the orthodox theology by the appearance of Tetzel in 1517. In his hastily drafted Ninety-five Theses he sought to limit the potency of indulgences, and so indirectly raised the question as to the power of the pope. He was astonished to observe the wide circulation of the theses both in the Latin and German versions. They soon reached Rome, and a Dominican monk, Prierius, wrote a reply in defence of the papal power, in an insolent tone which first served to rouse Luther's suspicion of the theology of the papal Curia. He was summoned to Rome, but, out of consideration for his patron, the important elector of Saxony, he was permitted to appear before the papal legate during the diet of Augsburg in 1518. He boldly contradicted the legate's theological statements, refused to revoke anything and appealed to a future council. On returning to AVittenberg, he turned to the canon law, and was shocked to find it so completely at variance with his notions of Christianity. He reached the conclusion that the papacy was but four hundred years old. Yet, although of human origin, it was established by common consent and with God's sanction, so that no one might withdraw his obedience without offence.
It was not, however, until 1520 that Luther became in a sense the leader of the German people by issuing his three great pamphlets, all of which were published in German as well as in Latin—his Address to the Christian Nobility of the German Nation, his Babylonish Captivity of the Churchy and his Freedom of the Christian. In the first he urged that, since the Church had failed to reform itself, the secular government should come to the rescue. “ The Romanists have with great dexterity built themselves about with three walls, which have hitherto protected them against reform; and thereby is Christianity fearfully fallen. In the first place, when the temporal power has pressed them hard, they have affirmed and maintained that the temporal power has no jurisdiction over them—that, on the contrary, the spiritual is above the temporal. Secondly, when it was proposed to admonish them from the Holy Scriptures they said, ‘ It beseems no one but the pope to interpret the Scriptures,' and, thirdly, when they were threatened with a council, they invented the idea that no one but the pope can call a council. Thus they have secretly stolen our three rods that they may go unpunished, and have entrenched themselves safely behind these three walls in order to carry on all the rascality and wickedness that we now see.”
He declares that the distinction between the “ spiritual estate,” composed of pope, bishops, priests and monks, as over against the “ temporal estate ” composed of princes, lords, artisans and peasants, is a very fine hypocritical invention of which no one should be afraid. “ A cobbler, a smith, a peasant, every man has his own calling and duty, just like the consecrated priests and bishops, and every one in his calling or office must help and serve the rest, so that all may work together for the common good.” After overthrowing the other two walls, Luther invites the attention of the German rulers to the old theme of the pomp of the pope and cardinals, for which the Germans must pay. “ What the Romanists really mean to do, the ‘drunken Germans' are not to see until they have lost everything. ... If we rightly hang thieves a*nd behead robbers, why do we leave the greed of Rome unpunished ? for Rome is the greatest thief and robber that has ever appeared on earth, or ever will; and all in the holy names of the Church and St Peter.” After proving that the secular rulers were free and in duty bound to correct the evils of the Church, Luther sketches a plan for preventing money from going to Italy, for reducing the number of idle, begging monks, harmful pilgrimages and excessive holidays. Luxury and drinking were to be sup-, pressed, the universities, especially the divinity schools, reorganized, &c.
Apart from fundamental rejection of the papal supremacy, there was little novel in Luther's appeal. It had all been said before in the various protests of which we have spoken, and very recently by Ulrich von Hutten in his Dialogues, but no one had put the case so strongly, or so clearly, before. In addressing the German nobility Luther had refrained from taking up theological or religious doctrines; but in September 1520 he attacked the whole sacramental system of the medieval Church in his Babylonish Captivity of the Church. Many reformers, like Glapion, the Franciscan confessor of, Charles V., who had read the Address with equanimity if not approval, were shocked by Luther's audacity in rejecting the prevailing fundamental religious conceptions. Luther says: “ I must begin by denying that there are seven sacraments, and must lay down for the time being that there are only three— baptism, penance and the bread, and that by the court of Rome all these have been brought into miserable bondage, and the Church despoiled of her liberty.” It is, however, in the Freedom of the Christian that the essence of Luther's religion is to be found. Man cannot save himself, but is saved then and there, so soon as he believes God's promises, and to doubt these is the supreme crime. So salvation was to him not a painful progress toward a goal to be reached by the sacraments and by right conduct, but a state in which man found himself so soon as he despaired absolutely of his own efforts, and threw himself on God's assurances. Man's utter incapacity to do anything to please God, and his utter personal dependence on God’s grace seemed to render the whole system of the Church well-nigh gratuitous even if it were purged of all the “ sophistry ” which to Luther seemed to bury out of sight all that was essential in religion. Luther's gospel was one of love and confidence, not of fear and trembling, and came as an overwhelming revelation to those who understood and accepted it.
The old question of Church reform inevitably reappeared
when the young emperor Charles V. opened his first imperial diet at Worms early in 1521, and a committee of -German princes drafted a list of gravamina, longer and bitterer than any preceding one. While the resolute papal nuncio Aleander was indefatigable in his efforts to induce the diet to condemn Luther's teachings, his curious and instructive despatches to the Roman Curia complain constantly of the ill-treatment and insults he encountered, of the readiness of the printers to issue innumerable copies of Luther's pamphlets and of their reluctance to print anything in the pope’s favour. Charles apparently made up his mind immediately and once for all. He approved the gravamina, for he believed a thorough reform of the Church essential. This reform he thought should be carried out by a council, even against the pope's will; and he was destined to engage in many fruitless negotiations to this end before the council of Trent at last assembled a score of years later. But he had no patience with a single monk who, led astray by his private judgment, set himself against the faith held by all Christians for a thousand years. “ What my forefathers established at the council of Constance and other councils it is my privilege to maintain,” he exclaims. Although, to Aleander’s chagrin, the emperor consented to summon Luther to Worms, where he received a species of ovation, Charles readily approved the edict drafted by the papal nuncio, in which Luther is accused of having “ brought together all previous heresies in one stinking mass,” rejecting all law, teaching a life wholly brutish, and urging the lay people to bathe their hands in the blood of priests. He and his adherents were outlawed; no one was to print, sell or read any of his writings, “ since they are foul, harmful, suspected, and come from a notorious and stiff-necked heretic.” The edict of Worms was entirely in harmony with the laws of Western Christendom, and there were few among the governing classes in Germany at that time who really understood or approved Luther's fundamental ideas; nevertheless—if we except the elector of Brandenburg, George of Saxony, the dukes of Bavaria, and Charles V.'s brother Ferdinand—the princes, including the ecclesiastical rulers and the towns, commonly neglected to publish the edict, much less to enforce it. They were glad to leave Luther unmolested in order to spite the “ Curtizanen,” as the adherents of the papal Curia were called. The emperor was forced to leave Germany immediately after the diet had dissolved, and was prevented by a succession of wars from returning for nearly ten years. The governing council, which had been organized to represent him in Germany, fell rapidly into disrepute, and exercised no restraining influence on those princes who might desire to act on Luther's theory that the civil government was supreme in matters of Church reform.
The records of printing indicate that religious, social and economic betterment was the subject of an ever-increasing number of pamphlets. The range of opinion was wide. Men like Thomas Murner, for instance, heartily denounced “ the great Lutheran fool,” but at the same time bitterly attacked monks and priests, and popularized the conception of the simple man with the hoe (Karsthans). Hans Sachs, on the other hand, sang the praises of the “ Wittenberg Nightingale,” and a considerable number of prominent men of letters accepted Luther as their guide— Zell and Bucer, in Strassburg, Eberlin in Ulm, Oecolampadius in Augsburg, Osiander and others in Nuremberg, Pelhcanus in Nordlingen. Moreover, there gradually developed a group of radicals who were convinced that Luther had not the courage of his convictions. They proposed to abolish the “ idolatry ” of the Mass and all other outward signs of what they deemed the old superstitions. Luther's colleague at Wittenberg, Carlstadt (q.v.), began denouncing the monastic life, the celibacy of the clergy, the veneration of images; and before the end of 1521 we find the first characteristic outward symptoms of Protestantism. Luther had meanwhile been concealed by his friends in the Wartburg, near Eisenach, where he busied himself with a new German translation of the New Testament, to be followed in a few years by the Old Testament. The
Bible had long been available in the language of the people, and there are indications that the numerous early editions of the Scriptures were widely read. Luther, however, possessed resources of style which served to render his version far superior to the older one, and to give it an important place in the development of German literature, as well as in the history of the Protestant churches. During his absence two priests from parishes near Wittenberg married; while several monks, throwing aside their cowls, left their cloisters. Melanchthon, who was for a moment carried away by the movement, partook, with several of his students, of the communion under both kinds, and on Christmas Eve a crowd invaded the church of All Saints, broke the lamps, threatened the priests and made sport of the venerable ritual. Next day, Carlstadt, who had laid aside his clerical robes, dispensed the Lord’s Supper in the “ evangelical fashion.” At this time three prophets arrived from Zwickau, eager to hasten the movement of emancipation. They were weavers who had been associated with Thomas Miinzer, and like him looked forward to a very radical reform of society. They rejected infant baptism, and were among the forerunners of the Anabaptists.
I11 January 1522, Carlstadt induced the authorities of Wittenberg to publish the first evangelical church ordinance. The revenues from ecclesiastical foundations, as well as those from the industrial gilds, were to be placed in a common chest, to he in charge of the townsmen and the magistrates. The priests were to receive fixed salaries; begging, even by monks and poor students, was prohibited; the poor, including the monks, were to be supported from the common chest. The service of the Mass was modified, and the laity were to receive the elements in both kinds. Reminders of the old religious usages were to be done away with, and fast days were to be no longer observed. These measures, and the excitement which followed the arrival of the radicals from Zwickau, led Luther to return to Wittenberg in March 1522, where he preached a series of sermons attacking the impatience of the radical party, and setting forth clearly his own views of what the progress of the Reformation should be. 11 The Word created heaven and earth and all things; the same Word will also create now, and not wT e poor sinners. Faith must be unconstrained and must be accepted without compulsion. To marry, to do away with images, to become monks and nuns, or for monks and nuns to leave their convent, to eat meat on Friday or not to eat it, and other like things— all these are open questions, and should not be forbidden by any man.... What we want is the heart, and to win that we must preach the gospel. Then the Word will drop into one heart to-day and to-morrow into another, and so will work that each will forsake the Mass.” Luther succeeded in quieting the people both in Wittenberg and the neighbouring towns, and in preventing the excesses which had threatened to discredit the whole movement.
In January 1522, Leo X. had been succeeded by a new pope, Adrian VI., a devout Dominican theologian, bent on reforming the Church, in which, as he injudiciously confessed through his legate to the diet at Nuremberg, the Roman Curia had perhaps been the chief source of “ that corruption which had spread from the head to the members.” The Lutheran heresy he held to be God's terrible judgment on the sins of the clergy. The diet refused to accede to the pope's demand that the edict of Worms should be enforced, and recommended that a Christian council should be summoned in January, to include not only ecclesiastics but laymen, who should be permitted freely to express their opinions. While the diet approved the list of abuses drawn up at Worms, it ordered that Luther's books should no longer be published, and that Luther himself should hold his peace, while learned men were to admonish the erring preachers. The decisions of this diet are noteworthy, since they probably give a very fair idea of the prevailing opinion of the ruling classes in Germany. They refused to regard Luther as in any way their leader, or even to recognize him as a discreet
person. On the other hand, they did not wish to take the risk of radical measures against the new doctrines, and were glad of an excuse for refusing the demands of the pope. Adrian soon died, worn out by his futile attempts to correct the abuses at home, and was followed by Clement VII., a Medici, less gifted but not less worldly in his instincts than Leo X.
Clement sent one of his ablest Italian diplomatists, Cam-peggio, to negotiate with the diet which met at Spires in 1524.
He induced the diet to promise to execute the edict of Worms as far as that should be possible; but it was generally understood that it was impossible. The diet renewed the demand for a general council to meet in a German town to settle the affairs of the Church in Germany, and even proposed the convocation of a national council at Spires in November, to effect a temporary adjustment. In this precarious situation Campeggio, realizing the hopelessness of his attempt to induce all the members of the diet to co-operate with him in re-establishing the pope's control, called together at Regensburg a certain number of rulers whom he believed to be rather more favourably disposed toward the pope than their fellows. These included Ferdinand, duke of Austria, the two dukes of Bavaria, the archbishops of Salzburg and Trent, the bishops of Bamberg, Spires, Strassburg and others. He induced these to unite in opposing the Lutheran heresy on condition that the pope would issue a decree providing for some of the •most needed reforms. There was to be no more financial oppression on the part of the clergy, and no unseemly payments for performing the church services. Abuses arising from the granting of indulgences were to he remedied, and the excessive number of church holidays, which seriously interfered with the industrial welfare of Germany, was to be reduced. The states in the Catholic League were permitted to retain for their own uses about one-fifth of the ecclesiastical revenue; the clergy was to be subjected to careful discipline; and only authorized preachers were to be tolerated, who based their teachings on the works of the four Latin Church fathers. Thus the agreement of Regensburg is of great moment in the development of the Protestant revolt in Germany. For Austria, Bavaria and the great ecclesiastical states in the south definitely sided with the pope against Luther's heresies, and to this day they still remain Roman Catholic. In the north, on the other hand, it became more and more apparent that the princes were drifting away from the Roman Catholic Church. Moreover, it should be noted that Campeggio's diplomacy was really the beginning, of an effective betterment of the old Church, such as had been discussed for two or three centuries. He met the long-standing and general demand for reform without a revolution in doctrines or institutions. A new edition of the German Bible was issued with the view of meeting the needs of Catholics, a new religious literature grew up designed to substantiate the beliefs sanctioned by the Roman Church and to carry out the movement begun long before toward spiritualizing its institutions and rites.
In 1525 the conservative party, which had from the first feared that Luther's teaching would result in sedition, received a new and terrible proof, as it seemed to them, of the noxious influence of the evangelical preachers. The peasant movements alluded to above, which had caused so much anxiety at the diet of Augsburg in 1518, culminated in the fearful Peasant Revolt in which the common man, both in country and town, rose in the name of “God's justice" to avenge long-standing wrongs and establish his rights. Luther was by no means directly responsible for the civil war which followed, but he had certainly contributed to stir up the ancient discontent. He had asserted that, owing to the habit of foreclosing small mortgages, “ any one with a hundred gulden could gobble up a peasant a year." The German feudal lords he pronounced hangmen, who knew only how to swindle the poor man—“ such fellows were formerly called scoundrels, but now we must call them ‘ Christians and revered princes.' ” Yet in spite of this harsh talk about princes, Luther relied upon them to forward the reforms in which he was interested, and he justly claimed that he had greatly increased their powers by reducing the authority of the pope and subjecting the clergy in all things to the civil government.
The best known statement of the peasants' grievances is to be found in the famous “ Twelve Articles " drawn up in 1524. They certainly showed the unmistakable influence of the evangelical teaching. The peasants demanded that the gospel should be taught them as a guide in life, and that each community should be permitted to choose its pastor and depose him if he conducted himself improperly. “ The pastor thus chosen' should teach us the gospel pure and simple, without any addition, doctrine or ordinance of man." The old tithe on grain shall continue to be paid, since that is established by the Old Testament. It will serve to support the pastor, and what is left over shall be given to the poor. Serfdom is against God's word, “since Christ has delivered and redeemed us all without exception, by the shedding of his precious blood, the lowly as well as the great." Protests follow against hunting and fishing rights, restrictions on wood-cutting, and excessive demands made on peasants. “ In the twelfth place,” the declaration characteristically concluded, “ it is our conclusion and final resolution that if one or more of the articles here set forth should not be in agreement with the word of God, as we think they are, such articles will we willingly retract if it be proved by a clear explanation of Scripture really to be against the word of God.” More radical demands came from the working classes in the towns. The articles of Heilbronn demanded that the property of the Church should be confiscated and used for the community; clergy and nobility alike were to be deprived of all their privileges, so that they could no longer oppress the poor man. The more violent leaders, like Miinzer, renewed the old cry that the parsons must be slain. Hundreds of castles and monasteries were destroyed by the frantic peasantry, and some of the nobles were murdered with shocking cruelty. Luther, who believed that the peasants were trying to cloak their dreadful sins with excuses from the gospel, exhorted the government to put down the insurrection. “ Have no pity on the poor folk; stab, smite, throttle, who can!” To him the peasants' attempt to abolish serfdom was wholly unchristian, since it was a divinely sanctioned institution, and if they succeeded they would “ make God a liar." The German rulers took Luther's advice with terrible literalness, and avenged themselves upon the peasants, whose lot was apparently worse afterwards than before.
The terror inspired by the Peasant War led to a new alliance, the League of Dessau, formed by some of the leading rulers of central and northern Germany, to stamp out the “ accursed Lutheran sect.” This included Luther's old enemy, Duke George of Saxony, the electors of Brandenburg and Mainz, and two princes of Brunswick.
The rumour that the emperor was planning to return to Germany in order to root out the growing heresy, led a few princes who had openly favoured Luther to unite also. Among these the chief were the new elector of Saxony, John (who, unlike his brother, Frederick the Wise, had openly espoused the new doctrines), and the energetic Philip, landgrave of Hesse. The emperor did not return, and since there was no one to settle the religious question in Germany, the diet of Spires (1526) determined that, pending the meeting of the proposed general council, each prince, and each knight and town owing immediate allegiance to the emperor, should decide individually what particular form of religion should prevail within the limits of their territories. Each prince was “so to live, reign and conduct himself as he would be willing to answer before God and His Imperial Majesty.” While the evangelical party still hoped that some form of religion might be agreed upon which would prevent the disruption of the Church, the conservatives were confident that the heretics
would soon be suppressed, as they had so often been in the past. The situation tended to become more, rather than less, complicated, and there was every variety of reformer and every degree of conservatism, for there were no standards for those who had rejected the papal supremacy, and even those who continued to accept it differed widely. For example, George of Saxony viewed Aleander, the pope’s nuncio, with almost as much suspicion as he did Luther himself.
The religious ideas in South Germany were affected by the development of a reform party in Switzerland, under the influence of Zwingli, who claimed that at Einsiedeln, near the lake of Zürich, he had begun to preach the gospel of Christ in the year 1516 “ before any one in my locality had so much as heard the name of Luther.” Three yea rs later he becamepreacher in the cathedralof Zürich. Here he began to denounce the abuses in the Church, as well as the traffic in mercenaries which had so long been a blot upon his country’s honour. From the first he combined religious and political reform. In 1523 he prepared a complete statement of his beliefs, in the form of sixty-seven theses. He maintained that Christ was the only high priest and that the gospel did not gain its sanction from the authority of the Church. He denied the existence of purgatory, and rejected those practices of the Church which Luther had already set aside. Since no one presented himself to refute him, the town council ratified his conclusions, so that the city of Zürich practically withdrew from the Roman Catholic Church. Next year the Mass, processions and the images of saints were abolished. The shrines were opened and the relics burned. Some other towns, including Bern, followed Zurich’s example, but the Forest cantons refused to accept the innovations. In 1525 a religious and political league was arranged between Zürich and Constance, which in the following year was joined by St Gallen, Biel, Mühlhausen, Basel and Strassburg. Philip of Hesse was attracted by Zwingli’s energy, and was eager that the northern reformers should be brought into closer relations with the south. But the league arranged by Zwingli was directed against the house of Habsburg, and Luther did not deem it right to oppose a prince by force of arms. Moreover, he did not believe that Zwingli, who conceived the eucharist to be merely symbolical in its character, “ held the whole truth of God.” Nevertheless, Philip of Hesse finally arranged a religious conference in the castle of Marburg (1529) where Zwingli and Luther met. They were able to agree on fourteen out of the fifteen “ Marburg Articles,” which stated the chief points in the Christian faith as they were accepted by both. A fundamental difference as to the doctrine of the eucharist, however, stood in the way of the real union.
The diet of Spires (1529) had received a letter from the emperor directing it to look to the enforcement of the edict of Worms against the heretics. No one was to preach against the Mass, and no one was to be prevented from attending it freely. This meant that the evangelical princes would be forced to restore the most characteristic Catholic rite. As they formed only a minority in the diet, they could only draw up a protest, which was signed by John Frederick of Saxony, Philip of Hesse, and fourteen of the three towns, including Strassburg, Nuremberg and Ulm. In this they claimed that the majority had no right to abrogate the stipulations of the former diet of Spires, which permitted each prince to determine religious matters provisionally for himself, for all had unanimously pledged themselves to observe that agreement. They therefore appealed to the emperor and to a future council against the tyranny of the majority. Those who signed this appeal were called Protestants, a name which came to be generally applied to those who rejected the supremacy of the pope, the Roman Catholic conceptions of the clergy and of the Mass, and discarded sundry practices of the older Church, without, however, repudiating the Catholic creeds.
During the period which had elapsed since the diet of Worms, the emperor had resided in Spain, busy with a series of wars, waged mainly with the king of France.@@1 In 1530 the emperor found himself in a position to visit Germany once more, and summoned the diet to meet at Augsburg, with the hope of settling the religious differences and bringing about harmonious action against the Turk.
The Protestants were requested to submit a statement of their opinions, and on June 25th the “Augsburg Confession” was read to the diet. This was signed by the elector of Saxony and his son and successor, John Frederick, by George, margrave of Brandenburg, two dukes of Lüneburg, Philip of Hesse and Wolfgang of Anhalt, and by the- representatives of Nuremberg and Reutlingen. The confession was drafted by Melanchthon, who sought consistently to minimize the breach which separated the Lutherans from the old Church. In the first part of the confession the Protestants seek to prove that there is nothing in their doctrines at variance with those of the universal Church “ or even of the Roman Church so far as that appears in the writings of the Fathers.” They made it clear that they still held a great part of the beliefs of the medieval Church, especially as represented in Augustine’s writings, and repudiated the radical notions of the Anabaptists and of Zwingli. In the second part, those practices of the Church are enumerated which the evangelical party rejected; the celibacy of the clergy, the Mass, as previously understood, auricular confession, and monastic vows, the objections to which are stated with much vigour. “ Christian perfection is this: to fear God sincerely, to trust« assuredly that we have, for Christ’s sake, a gracious and merciful God; to ask and look with confidence for help from him in all our affairs, accordingly to our calling, and outwardly to do good works diligently, and to attend to our vocation. In these things doth true perfection and a true worship of God consist. It doth not consist in going about begging, or in wearing a black or a grey cowl.” The Protestant princes declared that they had no intention of depriving the bishops of their jurisdiction, but this one thing only is requested of them, “ that they would suffer the gospel to be purely taught, and would relax a few observances in which we cannot adhere without sin.”
The confession was turned over to a committee of conservative theologians, including Eck, Faber and Cochlaeus. Their refutation of the Protestant positions seemed needlessly sharp to the emperor, and five drafts were made of it.
Charles finally reluctantly accepted it, although he would gladly have had it milder, for it made reconciliation hopeless. The majority of the diet approved a recess, allowing the Protestants a brief period of immunity until the 15th of April 1531, after which they were to be put down by force. Meanwhile, they were to make no further innovations, they were not to molest the conservatives, and were to aid the emperor in suppressing the doctrines of Zwingli and of the Anabaptists. The Lutheran princes protested, together with fourteen cities, and left the diet. The diet thereupon decided that the edict of Worms should at last be enforced. All Church property was to be restored, and, perhaps most important of all, the jurisdiction of the Imperial court (Reichskammergcricht), which was naturally Catholic in its sympathies, was extended to appeals involving the seizure of ecclesiastical benefices, contempt of episcopal decisions and other matters deeply affecting the Protestants. In November the Protestants formed the Schmalkaldic League, which, after the death of Zwingli, in 1531, was joined by a number of the South German towns. The period of immunity assigned to the Protestants passed by; but they were left unmolested, for the emperor was involved in many difficulties, and the Turks were threatening Vienna. Consequently, at thè diet of Nuremberg (1532) a recess was drafted indefinitely extending the religious truce and quashing such cases in the Reichskammergcricht as Involved Protestant
@@@1 In 1527 the pope’s capital was sacked by Charles’s army. This was, of course, but an incident in the purely political relations of the European powers with the pope, and really has no bearing upon the progress of the Protestant revolt.
innovations. The conservatives refused to ratify the recess, which was not published, but the Protestant states declared that they would accept the emperor's word of honour, and furnished him with troops for repelling the Mahommedans. The fact that the conservative princes, especially the dukes of Bavaria, were opposed to any strengthening of the emperor's power, and were in some cases hereditary enemies of the house oif Habsburg, served to protect the Protestant princes. In 1534 the Schmalkaldic League succeeded in restoring the banished duke of Wurttemberg, who declared himself in favour of the Lutheran reformation, and thus added another to the list of German Protestant states. In 1539 George of Saxony died, and was succeeded by his brother Henry, who also accepted the new faith, and in the same year the new elector of Brandenburg became a Protestant. Indeed, there was reason to believe at this time that the archbishops of Mainz, Trier and Cologne, as well as some other bishops, were planning the secularization of their principalities.
To the north, Lutheran influence had spread into Denmark; Sweden and Norway were also brought ’within its sphere.
Christian II. of Denmark, a nephew of the elector of Saxony, came to the throne in 1513, bent on bringing Sweden and Norway, over which he nominally ruled in accordance with the terms of the Union of Kalmar (I 397)j completely under his control. In order to do this it was necessary to reduce the power of the nobility and clergy, privileged classes exempt from taxation and rivals of the royal power. Denmark had suffered from all the abuses of papal provisions, and the nuncio of Leo X. had been forced in 1518 to flee from the king's wrath. Christian II. set up a supreme court for ecclesiastical matters, and seemed about to adopt a policy similar to that later pursued by Henry VIII. of England, when his work was broken off by a revolt which compelled him to leave the country. Lutheranism continued to make rapid progress, and Christian's successor permitted the clergy to marry, appropriated the annates and protected the Lutherans. Finally Christian III., an ardent Lutheran, ascended the throne in 1536; with the sanction of the diet he Severed, in 1537, all connexion with the pope, introducing the Lutheran system of Church government and accepting the Augsburg Confession.@@1 Norway was included in the changes, but Sweden had won its independence of Denmark, under Gustavus Vasa, who, in 1523, was proclaimed king. He used the Lutheran theories as an excuse for overthrowing the ecclesiastical aristocracy, which had been insolently powerful in Sweden. In 1527, supported by the diet, he carried his measures for secularizing such portions of the Church property as he thought fit, and for subjecting the Church to the royal power (Ordinances of Vcsteras); but many of the old religious ceremonies and practices were permitted to continue, and it was not until 1592 that Lutheranism was officially sanctioned by the Swedish synod.@@2
Charles V., finding that his efforts to check the spread of the religious schism were unsuccessful, resorted once more to conferences between Roman Catholic and Lutheran theologians, but it became apparent that no permanent compromise was possible. The emperor then succeeded in disrupting the Schmalkaldic League by winning over, on purely political grounds, Philip of Hesse and young Maurice of Saxony, whose father, Henry, had died after a very brief reign. Charles V. had always exhibited the greatest confidence in the proposed general council, the summoning of which had hitherto been frustrated by the popes, and at last, in 1545, the council was summoned to meet at Trent, which lay conveniently upon the confines of Italy and Germany (see Trent, Council of). The Dominicans and, later, members of the newly born Order of Jesus, were conspicuous, among the
@@@ The episcopal office was retained, but the “ succession ” broken, the new Lutheran bishops being consecrated by Buggenhagen, who was only in priest’s orders.
@@@2 The episcopal system and succession were maintained, and the
" Mass vestments " (t.e. alb and chasuble) remain in use to this day.
theological deputies, while the Protestants, though invited, refused to attend. It was clear from the first that the decisions of the council would be uncompromising in character, and that the Protestants would certainly refuse to be bound by its decrees. And so it fell out. The very first anathemas of the council were directed against those innovations which the Protestants had most at heart. The emperor had now tried threats, conferences and a general council, and all had failed to unify the Church.
Maurice of Saxony, without surrendering his religious beliefs, had become the political friend of the emperor, who had promised him the neighbouring electorate of Saxony.
John Frederick, the elector, was defeated at Miihlberg,
April 1547, and taken prisoner. Philip of Hesse also surrendered, and Charles tried once more to establish a basis of agreement. Three theologians, including a conservative Lutheran, were chosen to draft the so-called “ Augsburg Interim." This reaffirmed the seven sacraments, transubstantiation and the invocation of saints, and declared the pope head of the Church, but adopted Luther's doctrine of justification by faith in a conditional way, as well as the marriage of priests, and considerably modified the theory and practice of the Mass. For four years Charles, backed by the Spanish troops, made efforts to force the Protestant towns to observe the Interim, but with little success. He rapidly grew extremely unpopular, and in 1552 Maurice of Saxony turned upon him and attempted to capture him at Innsbruck. Charles escaped, but Maurice became for the moment leader of the German princes who gathered at Passau (August 1552) to discuss the situation. The settlement, however, was deferred for the meeting of the diet, which took place at Augsburg, 1555. There was a general anxiety to conclude a peace—“ bestitndiger, beharrlicher, un-bedingter, jiir und jiir ewig w'dhrender." There was no other way but to legalize the new faith in Germany, but only those were to be tolerated who accepted the Augsburg Confession. This excluded, of course, not only the Zwinglians and Anabaptists, but the ever-increasing Calvinistic or “ Reformed " Church. The principle ctijus regio ejus religio was adopted, according to which each secular ruler might choose between the old faith and the Lutheran. His decision was to bind all his subjects, but a subject professing another religion from his prince was to be permitted to leave the country. The ecclesiastical rulers, however, were to lose their possessions if they abandoned the old faith.@@3 Freedom of conscience was thus established for princes alone, and their power became supreme in religious as well as secular matters. The Church and the civil government had been closely associated with one another for centuries, and the old system was perpetuated in the Protestant states. Scarcely any one dreamed that individual subjects could safely be left to believe what they would, and permitted, so long as they did not violate the law of the land, freely to select and practise such religious rites as afforded them help and comfort.
During the three or four years which followed the signing of the Augsburg Confession in 1530 and the formation of the Schmalkaldic League, England, while bitterly denouncing and burning Lutheran heretics in the name of the Holy Catholic Church, was herself engaged in severing the bonds which had for well-nigh a thousand years bound her to the Apostolic See. An independent national Church was formed in 1534» which continued, however, for a time to adhere to all the characteristic beliefs of the medieval Catholic Church, excepting alone the headship of the pope. The circumstances which led to the English schism are dealt with elsewhere (see England, Church of), and need be reviewed here only in the briefest manner. There was soma heresy in England during the opening decades of the 16th century, survivals of the Lollardy which now and then brought a victim to the stake. There was also the old discontent among the orthodox in regard to the Church's exactions, bad clerics and
@@@3 This so-called ** ecclesiastical reservation ” was not included in the main peace.
dissolute and lazy monks. Scholars, like Colet, read the New Testament in Greek and lectured on justification by faith before they knew of Luther, and More included among the institutions of Utopia a rather more liberal and enlightened religion than that which he observed around him. Erasmus was read and approved, and his notion of reform by culture no doubt attracted many adherents among English scholars. Luther's works found their way into England, and were read and studied at both Oxford and Cambridge. In May 1521 Wolsey attended a pompous burning of Lutheran tracts in St Paul's churchyard, where Bishop Fisher preached ardently against the new German heresy. Henry VIII. himself stoutly maintained the headship of the pope, and, as is well known, after examining the arguments of Luther, published his Defence of the Seven Sacraments in i52r, which won for him from the pope the glorious title of “ Defender of the Faith." The government and the leading men of letters and prelates appear therefore to have harboured no notions of revolt before the matter of the king's divorce became prominent in 1527.
Henry's elder brother Arthur, a notoriously sickly youth of scarce fifteen, had been married to Catherine, daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella, but had died less than five months after the marriage (April 1502), leaving doubts as to whether the union had ever been physically consummated. Political reasons dictated an alliance between the young widow and her brother-in-law Henry, prince of Wales, nearly five years her junior; Julius II. was induced reluctantly to grant the dispensation necessary on account of the relationship, which, according to the canon law and the current interpretation of Leviticus xviii. 16, stood in the way of the union. The wedding took place some years later (1509), and several children were born,, none of whom survived except the princess Mary. By 1527 the king had become hopeless of having a male heir by Catherine. He was tired of her, and in love with the black-eyed Anne Boleyn, who refused to be his mistress. He alleged that he was beginning to have a horrible misgiving that his marriage with Catherine had been invalid, perhaps downright “ incestuous." The negotiations with Clement VII. with the hope of obtaining a divorce from Catherine, the reluctance of the pope to impeach the dispensation of his predecessor Julius II., and at the same time to alienate the English queen's nephew Charles V., the futile policy of Wolsey and his final ruin in 1529 are described elsewhere (see English History; Henry VIII.; Catherine of Aragon). The king's agents secured the opinion of a number of prominent universities that his marriage was void, and an assembly of notables, which he summoned in June 1530, warned the pope of the dangers involved in leaving the royal succession in uncertainty, since the heir was not only a woman, but, as it seemed to many, of illegitimate birth.
Henry's next move was to bring a monstrous charge against the clergy, accusing them of having violated the ancient laws of praemunire in submitting to the authority of papal legates (although he himself had ratified the appointment of Wolsey as legate a latere). The clergy of the province of Canterbury were fined £100,000 and compelled to declare the king “ their singular protector and only supreme lord, and, as far as that is permitted by the law of Christ, the supreme head of the Church and of the clergy." This the king claimed, perhaps with truth, was only a clearer statement of the provisions of earlier English laws. The following year, 1532, parliament presented a petition to the king (which had been most carefully elaborated by the monarch's own advisers) containing twelve charges against the bishops, relating to their courts, fees, injudicious appointments and abusive treatment of heretics, which combined to cause an unprecedented and u marvellous disorder of the godly quiet, peace and tranquillity" of the realm. For the remedy of these abuses parliament turned to the king, “ in whom and by whom the only and sole redress, reformation and remedy herein absolutely rests and remains." The ordinaries met these accusations with a lengthy and dignified answer; but this did not satisfy the king, and convocation was compelled on the 15th of May 1532, further to clarify the ancient laws of the land, as understood by the king, in the very brief, very humble and very pertinent document known as the “ Submission of the Clergy." Herein the king's “ most humble subjects daily orators, and bedesmen " of the clergy of England, in view of his goodness and fervent Christian zeal and his learning far exceeding that of all other kings that they have read of, agree never to assemble in convocation except at the king's summons, and to enact and promulgate no constitution or ordinances except they receive the royal assent and authority. Moreover, the existing canons are to be subjected to the examination of a commission appointed by the king, half its members from parliament, half from the clergy, to abrogate with the king's assent such provisions as the majority find do not stand with God's laws and the laws of the realm. This appeared to place the legislation of the clergy, whether old or new, entirely under the monarch's control. A few months later Thomas Cranmer, who had been one of those to discuss sympathetically Luther's works in the little circle at Cambridge, and who believed the royal supremacy Would tend to the remedying of grave abuses and that the pope had acted ultra vires in issuing a dispensation for the king's marriage with Catherine, was induced by Henry to succeed Warham as archbishop of Canterbury. About the same time parliament passed an interesting and important statute, forbidding, unless the king should wish to suspend the operation of the law, the payment to the pope of the annates. This item alone amounted during the previous forty-six years, the parliament declared, “ at the least to eight score thousand pounds, besides other great and intolerable sums which have yearly been conveyed to the said court of Rome by many other ways and means to the great impoverishment of this realm." The annates were thereafter to accrue to the king; and bishops and archbishops were thenceforth, in ciise the pope refused to confirm them,@@1 to be consecrated and invested within the realm, “ in like manner as divers other archbishops and bishops have been heretofore in ancient times by sundry the king's most noble progenitors." No censures, excommunications or interdicts with which the Holy Father might vex or grieve the sovereign lord or his subjects, should be published or in any way impede the usual performance of the sacraments and the holding of the divine services. In February parliament discovered that “ by divers sundry old authentic histories and chronicles " it was manifest that the realm of England was an empire governed by one supreme head, the king, to whom all sorts and degrees of people—both clergy and laity— ought to bear next to God a natural and humble obedience, and that to him God had given the authority finally to determine all causes and contentions in the realm, “ without restraint, or provocation to any foreign princes or potentates of the world." The ancient statutes of the praemunire and provisors are recalled and the penalties attached to their violation re-enacted. All appeals were to be tried within the realm, and suits begun before an archbishop were to be determined by him without further appeal. Acting on this, Cranmer tried the divorce case before his court, which declared the marriage 'with Catherine void and that with Anne Boleyn, which had been solemnized privately in January, valid. The pope replied by ordering Henry under pain of excommunication to put away Anne and restore Catherine, his legal wife, within ten days. This sentence the emperor, all the Christian princes and the king's own subjects were summoned to carry out by force of arms if necessary.
As might have been anticipated, this caused no break in the policy of the English king and his parliament, and a series of famous acts passed in the year 1534 completed and confirmed the independence of the Church of England, which, except during five years under Queen Mary, was thereafter as completely severed from the papal monarchy as the electorate of Saxony or the duchy of Hesse. The payment of annates and of Peter's pence
@@@1 Cranmer himself had taken the oath of canonical obedience to the Holy See and duly received the pallium.
was absolutely forbidden, as well as the application to the bishop of Rome for dispensations. The bishops were thereafter to be elected by the deans and chapters upon receiving the king's congi d’eslire (q.v.). The Act of Succession provided that, should the king have no sons, Elizabeth, Anne's daughter, should succeed to the crown. The brief Act of Supremacy confirmed the king's claim to be reputed the “ only supreme head in earth of the Church of England he was to enjoy all the honours, dignities, jurisdictions and profits thereunto appertaining, and to have full power and authority to reform and amend all such errors, heresies and abuses, as by any manner of spiritual authority might lawfully be reformed, or amended, most to the pleasure of Almighty God, and the increase of virtue in Christ’s religion, “ foreign authority, prescription, or any other thing or things to the contrary hereof, notwithstanding.” The Treasons Act, terrible in its operation, included among capital offences that of declaring in words or writing the king to be “ a heretic, schismatic, tyrant, infidel or usurper.” The convocations were required to abjure the papal supremacy by declaring “ that the bishop of Rome has not in Scripture any greater jurisdiction in the kingdom of England than any other foreign bishop.” The king had now clarified the ancient laws of the realm to his satisfaction, and could proceed to abolish superstitious rites, remedy abuses, and seize such portions of the Church's possessions, especially pious and monastic foundations, as he deemed superfluous for the maintenance of religion.
In spite of the fact that the separation from Rome had been carried out during the sessions of a single parliament, and that there had been no opportunity for a general expression of opinion on the part of the nation, there is no reason to suppose that the majority of the people, thoughtful or thoughtless, were not ready to reconcile themselves to the abolition of the papal supremacy. It seems just as clear that there was no strong evangelical movement, and that Henry's pretty consistent adherence to the fundamental doctrines of the medieval Church was agreeable to the great mass of his subjects. The ten “ Articles devised by the Kyng's Highnes Majestie to stablysh Christen quietness ” (1536), together with the u Injunctions ” of 1536, and 1538, are chiefly noteworthy for their affirmation of almost all the current doctrines of the Catholic Church, except those relating to the papal supremacy, purgatory, images, relics and pilgrimages, and the old rooted distrust ■ of the Bible in the vernacular. The clergy were bidden to exhort their hearers to the “ works of charity, mercy and faith, specially prescribed and commanded in Scripture, and not to repose their trust or affiance in any other works devised by men's phantasies beside Scripture; as in wandering to pilgrimages, offering of money, candles or tapers to images or relics, or kissing or licking the same, saying oyer a number of beads, not understood or minded on, or in such-like superstition.” To this end a copy of the whole English Bible was to be set up in each parish church where the people could read it. During the same years the monasteries, lesser and greater, were dissolved, and the chief shrines were despoiled, notably that of St Thomas of Canterbury. Thus one of the most important of all medieval ecclesiastical institutions, monasticism, came to an end in England. Doubtless the king's sore financial needs had much to do with the dissolution of the abbeys and the plundering of the shrines, but there is no reason to suppose that he was not fully convinced that the monks had long outlived their usefulness and that the shrines were centres of abject superstition and ecclesiastical deceit. Henry, however, stoutly refused to go further in the direction of German Protestantism, even with the prospect of forwarding the proposed union between him and the princes of the Schmalkaldic League. An insurrection of the Yorkshire peasants, which is to be ascribed in part to the distress caused by the enclosure of the commons on which they had been wont to pasture their cattle, and in part to the
destruction of popular shrines, may have caused the king to defend his orthodoxy by introducing into parliament in 1539 the six questions. These parliament enacted into the terrible statute of “ The Six Articles,” in which a felon's death was prescribed for those who obstinately denied transubstantiation, demanded the communion under both kinds, questioned the binding character of vows of chastity, or the lawfulness of private Masses or the expediency of auricular confession. On the 30th of July 1540 three Lutheran clergymen were burned and three Roman Catholics beheaded, the latter for denying the king's spiritual supremacy. The king's ardent desire that diversities of minds and opinions should be done away with and unity be “ charitably established ” was further promoted by publishing in 1543 A Necessary Doctrine and Erudition for any Christian Man, set forth by the King’s Majesty of England, in which the tenets of medieval theology, except for denial of the supremacy of the bishop of Rome and the unmistakable assertion of the supremacy of the king, were once more restated.
Henry VIII. died in January 1547, having chosen a council of regency for his nine-year-old son Edward, the members of which were favourable to further religious innovations. Somerset, the new Protector, strove to govern on the basis of civil liberty and religious tolerance.
The first parliament of the reign swept away almost all the species of treasons created during the previous two centuries, the heresy acts, including the Six Articles, all limitations on printing the Scriptures in English and reading and expounding the * same—indeed “ all and every act or acts of parliament concerning doctrine or matters of religion.” These measures gave a great impetus to religious discussion and local innovations. Representatives of all the new creeds hastened from the Continent to England, where they hoped to find a safe and fertile field for the particular seed they had to plant. It is impossible exactly to estimate the influence which these teachers exerted on the general trend of religious opinion in England; in any case, however, it was not unimportant, and the Articles of Religion and official homilies of the Church of England show unmistakably the influence of Calvin's doctrine. There was, however, no such sudden breach with the traditions of the past as characterized the Reformation in some continental countries. Under Edward VI. the changes were continued on the lines laid down by Henry VIII. The old hierarchy continued, but service books in English were substituted for those in Latin, and preaching was encouraged. A royal visitation, beginning in 1547, discovered, however, such a degree of ignorance and illiteracy among the parish clergy that it became clear that preaching could only be gradually given its due place in the services of the Church. Communion under both kinds and the marriage of the clergy were sanctioned, thus gravely modifying two of the fundamental institutions of the medieval Church. A conservative Book of Common Prayer and Administration of the Sacraments and other Rites and Ceremonies after the Use of the Church of England —commonly called the First Prayer Book of Edward VI.— was issued in 1549. This was based upon ancient “ uses,” and represented no revolutionary change in the traditions of the “ old religion.” It was followed, however, in 1552 by the second Prayer Book, which was destined to be, with some modifications, the permanent basis of the English service. This made it clear that the communion was no longer to be regarded as a propitiatory sacrifice, the names “ Holy Communion ” and “ Lord's -Supper ” being definitively substituted for “ Mass ” (q.v.), while the word “ altar ” was replaced by “ table.” In the Forty-two Articles we have the basis of Queen Elizabeth's Thirty-nine Articles. Thus during the reign of Edward we have not only the foundations of the Anglican Church laid, but there appears the beginning of those evangelical and puritanical sects which were to become the “ dissenters ” of the following centuries.
With the death of Edward there came a period of reaction lasting for five years. Queen Mary, unshaken in her attachment to the ancient faith and the papal monarchy, was able with the sanction of a subservient parliament to turn back the wheels of ecclesiastical legislation, to restore the old religion, and to reunite the English Church with the papal monarchy; the pope's legate, Cardinal Pole, was primate of all England. Then, the ancient heresy laws having been revived, came the burnings of Rogers, Hooker, Latimer, Ridley, Cranmer and many a less noteworthy champion of the new religion. It would seem as if this sharp, uncompromising reaction was what was needed to produce a popular realization of the contrast between the Ecclesia anglicana of Henry VIII. and Edward VI., and the alternative of “ perfect obedience to the See Apostolic.”
Elizabeth, who succeeded her sister Mary in 1558, was suspected to be Protestant in her leanings, and her adviser, Cecil, had received his training as secretary of the Protector Somerset; but the general European situation as well as the young queen's own temperament precluded any abrupt or ostentatious change in religious matters. The new sovereign's first proclamation was directed against all such preaching as might lead to contention and the breaking of the common quiet. In 1559 ten of Henry VIII.'s acts were revived. On Easter Sunday the queen ventured to display her personal preference for the Protestant conception of the eucharist by forbidding the celebrant in her chapel to elevate the host. The royal supremacy was reasserted, the title being modified into “ supreme governor ”; and a new edition of Edward VI.'s second Prayer Book, with a few changes, was issued. The Marian bishops who refused to recognize these changes were deposed and imprisoned, but care was taken to preserve the “ succession ” by consecrating others in due form to take their places.@@1 Four years later the Thirty-nine Articles imposed an official creed upon the English nation. This was Protestant in its general character: in its appeal to the Scriptures as the sole rule of faith (Art. VI.), its repudiation of the authority of Rome (Art. XXXVII.), its definition of the Church (Art. XIX.), its insistence on justification by faith only (Art. XI.) and repudiation of the sacrifice of the Mass (Arts. XXVIII. and XXXI.). As supreme governor of the Church of England the sovereign strictly controlled all ecclesiastical legislation and appointed royal delegates- to hear appeals from the ecclesiastical courts, to be a “ papist ” or to “ hear Mass ” (which was construed as the same thing) was to risk incurring the terrible penalties of high treason. By the Act of Uniformity (1559) a uniform ritual, the Book of Common Prayer, was imposed upon clergy and laity alike, and no liberty of public worship was permitted. Every subject was bound under penalty of a fine to attend church on Sunday. While there was in a certain sense freedom of opinion, all printers had to seek a licence from the government for every manner of book or paper, and heresy was so closely affiliated with treason that the free expression of thought, whether reactionary or revolutionary, was beset with grave danger.
Attempts to estimate the width of the gulf separating the Church of England in Elizabeth's time from the corresponding institution as it existed in the early years of her father's reign are likely to be gravely affected by personal bias. There is a theory that no sweeping revolution in dogma took place, but that only a few medieval beliefs were modified or rejected owing to the practical abuses to which they had given rise. To Professor A. F. Pollard, for example, “ The Reformation in England was mainly a domestic affair, a national protest against national grievances rather than part of a cosmopolitan movement toward doctrinal change ”.(Cam&. Mod. Hist. ii. 478-9). This estimate appeals to persons of*widely different views and temperaments. It is as grateful to those who, like many “ Anglo-Catholics,” desire on religious grounds to establish the doctrinal continuity of the Anglican Church with that of the middle ages, as it is obvious to those who, like W. K. Clifford, perceive in the ecclesiastical organization and its influence nothing more than a perpetuation of demoralizing medieval superstition. The nonconformists have, moreover, never wearied of denouncing the “ papistical ” conservatism of the Anglican establishment. On the other hand, the impartial historical student cannot compare the Thirty-nine Articles with the contemporaneous canons and decrees of the council of Trent without being impressed by striking contrasts between the two sets of dogmas. Their spirit is very different. The unmistakable rejection on the part of the English Church of the conception of the eucharist as a sacrifice had alone many wide-reaching implications. Even although the episcopal organization was retained, the conception of “ tradition,” of the conciliar powers, of the “characters” of the priest, of the celibate life, of purgatory, of “ good works,” &c.—all these serve clearly to differentiate the teaching of the English Church before and after the Reformation. From this standpoint it is obviously un-historical to deny that England had a very important part in the cosmopolitan movement toward doctrinal change.
@@@1 Only one of the Marian bishops, Kitchin of Llandaff, was found willing to conform.
The little backward kingdom of Scotland definitely accepted the new faith two years after Elizabeth's accession, and after having for centuries sided with France against England, she was inevitably forced by the Reformation into an alliance with her ancient enemy to the south when they both faced a confederation of Catholic powers. The first martyr of Luther's gospel had been Patrick Hamilton, who had suffered in 1528; but in spite of a number of executions the new ideas spread, even among the nobility. John Knox, who, after a chequered career, had come under the influence of Calvin at Geneva, returned to Scotland for a few months in 1555, and shortly after (1557) that part of the Scottish nobility which had been won over to the new faith formed their first “ covenant ” for mutual protection. These “ Lords of the Congregation ” were able to force some concessions from the queen regent. Knox appeared in Scotland again in 1559, and became a sort of second Calvin. He opened negotiations with Cecil, who induced the reluctant Elizabeth to form an alliance with the Lords of the Congregation, and the English sent a fleet to drive away the French, who were endeavouring to keep their hold on Scotland. In 1560 a confession of faith was prepared by John Knox and five companions. This was adopted by the Scottish parliament, with the resolution “ the bishops of Rome have no jurisdiction nor authoritie in this Realme in tymes cuming.” The alliance of England and the Scottish Protestants against the French, and the common secession from the papal monarchy, was in a sense the foundation and beginning of Great Britain. Scottish Calvinism was destined to exercise no little influence, not only on the history of England, but on the form that the Protestant faith was to take in lands beyond the seas, at the time scarcely known to the Europeans.
While France was deeply affected during the 16th century by the Protestant revolt, its government never undertook any thoroughgoing reform of the Church. During the latter part of the century its monarchs were engaged in a bloody struggle with a powerful religious-political party, the Huguenots, who finally won a toleration which they continued to enjoy until the revocation of the edict of Nantes in 1685. It was not until 1789 that the French Church of the middle ages lost its vast possessions and was subjected to a fundamental reconstruction by the Civil Constitution of the Clergy (1791).@@2 Yet no summary of
@@@2 In 1795 the National Convention gruffly declared that the Republic would no longer subsidize any form of worship or furnish buildings for religious services. “ The law recognizes no minister of religion, and no one is^to appear in public with costumes or ornaments used in religious ceremonies.” Bonaparte, in the Concordat which he forced upon the pope in 1801, ¡did not provide for the return of'any of the lands of the Church which had been sold, but agreed that the government should pay the salaries of bishops and priests, whose appointment it controlled. While the Roman Catholic religion was declared to be that accepted by the majority of Frenchmen, the state subsidized the Reformed Church, those adhering to the Augsburg Confession and the Jewish community. Over a
the Protestant revolt would be complete without some allusion to the contrast between the course of affairs in France and in the neighbouring countries. The French monarchy, as we have seen, had usually succeeded in holding its own against the centralizing tendencies of the pope. By the Pragmatic Sanction of Bourges (1438) it had secured the advantages of the conciliar movement. In 1516, after Francis I. had won his victory at Marignano, Leo X. concluded a new concordat with France, in which, in view of the repudiation of the offensive Pragmatic Sanction, the patronage of the French Church was turned over, with scarce any restriction, to the French monarch, although in another agreement the annates were reserved to the pope. The encroachments—which had begun in the time of Philip the Fair—of the king’s*lawyers on the ancient ecclesiastical jurisdiction, had reached a point where there was little cause for jealousy on the part of the State. The placet had long prevailed, so that the king had few of the reasons, so important in Germany and England, for quarrelling with the existing system, unless it were on religious grounds. France had been conspicuous in the conciliar movement. It had also furnished its due quota of heretics, although no one so conspicuous as Wycliffe or Huss. Marsiglio of Padua had had Frenchmen among his sympathizers and helpers. The first prominent French scholar to “ preach Christ from the sources ” was Jacques Lefebvre of Etaples, who in 1512 published a new Latin translation of the epistles of St Paul. Later he revised an existing French translation of both the New Testament (which appeared in 1523, almost contemporaneously with Luther’s German version) and, two years, later, the Old Testament. He agreed with Luther in rejecting transubstantiation, and in believing that works without the grace of God could not make for salvation. The centre of Lefebvre’s followers was Meaux, and they found an ardent adherent in Margaret of Angouleme, the king’s pister, but had no energetic leader who was willing to face the danger of disturbances. Luther’s works found a good many readers in France, but were condemned (1521) by both the Sorbonneand the parle-ment of Paris. The parlement appointed a commission to discover and punish heretics; the preachers of Meaux fled to Strassburg, and Lefebvre’s translation of the Bible was publicly burned. A council held at Sens, 1528-29, approved all those doctrines of the old Church which the Protestants were attacking, and satisfied itself with enumerating a list of necessary conservative reforms.
After a fierce attack on Protestants caused by the mutilation of a statue of the Virgin, in 1528, the king, anxious to conciliate both the German Protestants and anti-papal England, invited some of the reformers of Meaux to preach in the Louvre. An address written by a young man of twenty-four, Jean Cauvin (to become immortal under his Latin name of Calvinus) was read by the rector of the university. It was a defence of the new evangelical views, and so aroused the Sorbonne that Calvin was forced to flee from Paris. In October 1534, the posting of placards in Paris and other towns, containing brutal attacks on the Mass and denouncing the pope and the “ vermin ” of bishops, priests and monks as blasphemers and liars, produced an outburst of persecution, in which thirty-five Lutherans were burned, while many fled the country. The events called forth from Calvin, who was in Basel, the famous letter to Francis which forms the preface to his Institutes of the Christian Religion. In this address he sought to vindicate the high aims of the Protestants, and to put the king on his guard against those mad men who were disturbing his kingdom with their measures of persecution.* The Institutes, the first great textbook of Protestant theology, was published in Latin in 1536, and soon (1541) in a French version. The original work is much shorter than in its later editions, for, as Calvin says, he wrote learning and learned century elapsed before the Concordat was abrogated by the Separation Law of 1905 which suppressed all government appropriations for religious purposes and vested the control of Church property in 11 associations for public worship ” (associations cultuelles), to be composed of from seven to twenty-five members according to the size of the commune.
writing. His address had little effect on the king. The parle-ments issued a series of edicts against the heretics, culminating in the very harsh general edict of Fontainebleau, sanctioned by the parlement of Paris in 1543. The Sorbonne issued a concise series of twenty-five articles, refuting the Institutes of Calvin. This statement, when approved by4he king and his council, was published throughout France, and formed a clear test of orthodoxy. The Sorbonne also drew up a list of prohibited books, including those of Calvin, Luther and Melanchthon; and the parlement issued a decree against all printing of Protestant literature. The later years of Francis’s reign were noteworthy for the horrible massacre of the Waldcnses and the martyrdom of fourteen from the group of Meaux, who were burnt alive in 1546. When Francis died little had been done, in spite of the government’s cruelty, to check Protestantism, while a potent organ of evangelical propaganda had been developing just beyond the confines of France in the town of Geneva.
In its long struggle with its bishops and with the dukes of Savoy, Geneva had turned to her neighbours for aid, especially to Bern, with which an alliance was concluded in 1526. Two years later Bern formally sanctioned the innovations advocated by the Protestant preachers, and although predominantly German assumed the r61e of protector of the reform party in the Pays de Vaud and Geneva. William Farel, one of the group of Meaux, who had fled to Switzerland and had been active in the conversion of Bern, went to Geneva in 1531. With the protection afforded him and his companions by Bern, and the absence of well-organized opposition on the part of the Roman Catholics, the new doctrines rapidly spread, and by 1535 Farel was preaching in St Pierre itself. After a public disputation in which the Catholics were weakly represented, and a popular demonstration in favour of the new doctrines, the council of Geneva rather reluctantly sanctioned the abolition of the Mass. Meanwhile Bern had declared war on the duke of Savoy, and had not only conquered a great part of the Pays de Vaud, including the important town of Lausanne, but had enabled Geneva to win its complete independence. In the same year (September 1536), as Calvin was passing through the town on his way back to Strassburg after a short visit in Italy, he was seized by Farel and induced most reluctantly to remain and aid him in thoroughly carrying out the Reformation in a city in which the conservative sentiment was still very strong. As there proved to be a large number in the town councils who did not sympathize with the plans of organization recommended by Calvin and his colleagues, the town preachers were, after a year and a half of unsatisfactory labour, forced to leave Geneva. For three years Calvin sojourned in Germany; he signed the Augsburg Confession, gained the friendship of Melanchthon and other leading reformers, and took part in the religious conferences of the period. In 1541 he was induced with great difficulty to surrender once more his hopes of leading the quiet life of a scholar, and to return again to Geneva (September 1541), where he spent the remaining twenty-three years of his Ufe. His ideal was to restore the conditions which he supposed prevailed during the first three centuries of the Church’s existence; but the celebrated Ecclesiastical Ordinances adopted by the town in 1541 and revised in 1561 failed fully to realize his ideas, which find a more complete exemplification in the regulations governing the French Church later. He wished for the complete independence and self-government of the Church, with the right of excommunication to be used against the ungodly. The Genevan town councils were quite ready to re-enact all the old police regulations common in that age in regard to excessive display, dancing, obscene songs, &c. It was arranged too that town government should listen to the “ Consistory,” made up of the “ Elders,” but the Small Council was to choose the members of the Consistory, two of whom should belong to the Small Council, four to the Council of Sixty, and six to the Council of Two Hundred. One of the four town syndics was to preside over its sessions. The Consistory was thus a sort of committee of
the councils, and it had no power to inflict civil punishment on offenders. Thus “ we ought,” as Lindsay says, “ to see in the disciplinary powers and punishments of the Consistory of Geneva not an exhibition of the working of the Church organized on the principles of Calvin, but the ordinary procedure of the town council of a medieval city. Their petty punishments and their minute interferences with private life are only special instances of what was common to all municipal rule in the 16th century.” This is true of the supreme crime of heresy, which in the notorious case of Servetus was only an expression of rules laid down over a thousand years earlier in the Theodosian Code. Geneva, however, with its most distinguished of Protestant theologians, became a school of Protestantism, which sent its trained men into the Netherlands, England and Scotland, and especially across the border into France. It served too as a place of refuge for thousands of the persecuted adherents of its heliefs. Calvin's book furnished the Protestants not only with a compact and admirably written handbook of theology, vigorous and clear, but with a system of Church government and a code of morals.
After the death of Francis I., his successor, Henry II., set himself even more strenuously to extirpate heresy; a special branch of the parlement of Paris—the so-called Chambre ardente (g.v.)—for the trial of heresy cases was established, and the fierce edict of Chateaubriand (June 1551) explicitly adopted many of the expedients of the papal inquisition. While hundreds were imprisoned or burned, Protestants seemed steadily to increase in numbers, and finally only the expostulations of the parlement of Paris prevented the king from introducing the Inquisition in France in accordance with the wishes of the pope and the cardinal of Lorraine. The civil tribunals, however, practically assumed the functions of regular inquisitorial courts, in spite of the objections urged by the ecclesiastical courts. Notwithstanding these measures for their extermination, the French Protestants were proceeding to organize a church in accordance with the conceptions of the early Christian communities as Calvin described them in his Institutes. Beginning with Paris, some fifteen communities with their consistories were established in French towns between 1555 and 1560. In spite of continued persecution a national synod was assembled in Paris in 1559, representing at least twelve Protestant churches in Normandy and central France, which drew up a confession of faith and a book of church discipline. It appears to have heen from France rather than from Geneva that the Presbyterian churches of Holland, Scotland and the United States derived their form of government. A reaction against the extreme severity of the king's courts became apparent at this date. Du Bourg and others ventured warmly to defend the Protestants in the parlement of Paris in the very presence of the king and of the cardinal of Lorraine. The higher aristocracy began now to be attracted by the new doctrines, or at least repelled by the flagrant power enjoyed by the Guises during the brief reign of Francis II. (155^-1560). Protestantism was clearly becoming inextricably associated with politics of a very intricate sort. The leading members of the Bourbon branch of the royal family, and Gaspard de Coligny; admiral of France, were conspicuous among the converts to Calvinism. Persecution was revived by the Guises; Du Bourg, the brave defender of the Protestants, was burned as a heretic; yet Calvin could in the closing years of his life form a cheerful estimate that some three hundred thousand of his countrymen had been won over to his views. The death of Francis II. enabled Catherine de' Medici, the queen mother, to assert herself against the Guises, and become the regent of her ten-year-old son Charles IX. A meeting of the States General had already been summoned to consider the state of the realm. Michel de l'Hôpital, the chancellor, who opened the assembly, was an advocate of toleration; he deprecated the abusive use of the terms “ Lutherans,'' “ Papists ” and “ Huguenots,'' and advocated deferring all action until a council should have been called. The deputies of the clergy were naturally conservative, but advocated certain reforms, an abolition of the Concordat, and a re-establishment of the older Pragmatic Sanction. The noblesse wère divided on the matter of toleration, but the cahiers (lists of grievances and suggestions for reform) submitted by the Third Estate demanded, besides regular meetings of the estates every five years, complete toleration and a reform of the Church. This grew a little later into the recommendation that the revenues and possessions of the French Church should be appropriated by the government, which, after properly subsidizing the clergy, might hope, it was estimated, that a surplus of twenty-two millions of livres would accrue to the State. Two hundred and thirty years later this plan was realized in the Civil Constitution of the Clergy. The deliberations of 1561 resulted in the various reforms, the suspension of persecution and the liberation of Huguenot prisoners. These were not accorded freedom of worship, but naturally took advantage of the situation to carry on their services more publicly than ever before. An unsuccessful effort was made at the conference of Poissy to bring the two religious parties together; Beza had an opportunity to defend the Calvinistic cause, and Lainez, the general of the Order of Jesus, that of the bishop of Rome. The government remained tolerant toward the movement, and in January 1562 the Huguenots were given permission to hold public services outside the walls of fortified towns and were not forbidden to meet in private houses within the walls. Catherine, who had promoted these measures, cared nothing for the Protestants, but desired the support of the Bourbon princes. The country was Catholic, and disturbances inevitably occurred, culminating in the attack of the duke of Guise and his troops »on the Protestants at Vassy, less than two months after the issuing of the edict.
It is impossible to review here the Wars of Religion which distracted France, from the “ massacre of Vassy '' to the publication of the edict of Nantes, thirty-six years later. Religious issues became more and more dominated by purely political and dynastic ambitions, and the whole situation was constantly affected by the policy of Philip II. and the struggle going on in the Netherlands. Henry IV. was admirably fitted to reunite France once more, and, after a superficial conversion to the Catholic faith, to meet the needs of his former co-religionists, the Huguenots. The edict of Nantes recapitulated and codified the provisions of a series of earlier edicts of toleration, which had come with each truce during .the previous generation. Liberty of conscience in religious matters was secured and the right of private worship to those of the “ so-called Reformed religion.'' Public worship was permitted everywhere where it had existed in 1506-1597, in two places within each bailliage and sénéchaussée, and in the châteaux of the Protestant nobility, with slight restrictions in the case of lower nobility. Protestants were placed upon a political equality and made eligible to all public offices. To ensure these rights, they were left in military control of two hundred towns, including La Rochelle, Montauban and Montpellier. Jealous of their “ sharing the State with the king,” Richelieu twenty-five years later reduced the exceptional privileges of the Huguenots, and with the advent of Louis XIV. they began to suffer renewed persecution, which the king at last flattered himself had so far reduced their number that in 1685 he revoked the edict of Nantes and reduced the Protestants to the status of outlaws. It was not until 1786 that they were restored to their civil rights, and by the Declaration of the Rights of Man, in 1789, to their religious freedom.
Contemporaneously with the Wars of Religion in France a long and terrible struggle between the king of Spain and his Dutch and Belgian provinces had resulted in the formation of a Protestant state—the United Netherlands, which was destifled to play an important rôle in the history of the Reformed religion. Open both to 'German and French influences, the Netherlands had been the scene of the first executions of Lutherans; they had been a centre of Anabaptist agitation ; but Calvinism finally triumphed in the Confession of Dordrecht,
1572, since Calvin's system of church government did not, like
Luther's, imply the sympathy of the civil authorities. Charles V. had valiantly opposed the development of heresy in the Netherlands, and nowhere else had there been such numbers of martyrs, for some thirty thousand are supposed to have been put to death during his reign. Under Philip II. it soon became almost impossible to distinguish clearly between the religious issues and the resistance to the manifold tyranny of Philip and his representatives. William of Orange, who had passed through several phases of religious conviction, stood first and foremost for toleration. Indeed, Holland became the home of modern religious liberty, the haven of innumerable free spirits, and the centre of activity of printers and publishers, who asked for no other imprimatur than the prospect of intelligent readers.
It is impossible to offer any exhaustive classification of those who, while they rejected the teachings of the old Church, refused at the same time to conform to the particular types of Protestantism which had found favour in the eyes of the princes and been imposed by them on their subjects. This large class of “ dissenters '' found themselves as little at home under a Protestant as under a Catholic regime, and have until recently been treated with scant sympathy by historians of the Church. Long before the Protestant revolt, simple, obscure people, under the influence of leaders whose names have been forgotten, lost confidence in the official clergy and their sacraments and formed secret organizations of which vague accounts are found in the reports of the 13th-century inquisitors, Rainerus Sacchoni, Bernard Gui, and the rest. Their anti-sacerdotalism appears to have been their chief offence, for the inquisitors admit that they were puritanically careful in word and conduct, and shunned all levity. Similar groups are mentioned in the town chronicles of the early 16th century, and there is reason to assume that informal evangelical movements were no new things when Luther first began to preach. His appeal to the Scriptures against the traditions of the Church encouraged a more active propaganda on the part of Balthasar Hubmaier, Carlstadt, Miinzer, Johann Denk (d. 1527) and others, some of whom were well-trained scholars capable of maintaining with vigour and effect their ideas of an apostolic life as the high road to salvation. Miinzer dreamed of an approaching millennium on earth to be heralded by violence and suffering, but Hubmaier and Denk were peaceful evangelists who believed that man's will was free and that each had within him an inner light which would, if he but followed it, guide him to God. To them persecution was an outrage upon Jesus's teachings. Luther and his sympathizers were blind to the reasonableness of the •fundamental teachings of these “brethren." The idea of adult baptism, which had after 1525 become generally accepted among them, roused a bitterness which it is rather hard to understand nowadays. But it is easy to see that informal preaching to the people at large, especially after the Peasant Revolt, with which Miinzer had been'identified, should have led to a general condemnation, under the name “ Anabaptist " or “ Catabaptist," of the heterogeneous dissenters who agreed in rejecting the State religion and associated a condemnation of infant baptism with schemes for social betterment. The terrible events in Munster, which was controlled for a short time (1533-34) by a group of Anabaptists under the leadership of John of Leiden, the introduction of polygamy (which appears to have been a peculiar accident rather than a general principle), the speedy capture of the town by an alliance of Catholic and Protestant princes, and the ruthless retribution inflicted by the victors, have been cherished by ecclesiastical writers as a choice and convincing instance of the natural fruits of a rejection of infant baptism. Much truer than the common estimate of the character of the Anabaptists is that given in Sebastian Franck's Chronicle: “ They taught nothing but love, faith and the crucifixion of the flesh, manifesting patience and humility under many sufferings, breaking bread with one another in sign of unity and love, helping one another with true helpfulness, lending, borrowing, giving, learning to Tiave all things in common, calling each other * brother.' " Menno
Simons (b. circ. 1500) succeeded in bringing the scattered Anabaptist communities into a species of association; he discouraged the earlier apocalyptic hopes, inculcated non-resistance, denounced the evils of State control over religious matters, and emphasized personal conversion, and adult baptism as its appropriate seal. The English Independents and the modern Baptists, as well as the Mennonites, may be regarded as the historical continuation of lines of development going back to the Waldensians and the Bohemian Brethren, and passing down through the German, Dutch and Swiss Anabaptists.
The modern scholar as he reviews the period of the Protestant Revolt looks naturally, but generally in vain, for those rationalistic tendencies which become so clear in the latter part of the 17th century. Luther found no intellectual difficulties in his acceptance and interpretation of the Scriptures as God's word, and in maintaining against the Anabaptists the legitimacy of every old custom that was not obviously contrary to the Scriptures. Indeed, he gloried in the inherent and divine unreasonableness of Christianity, and brutally denounced reason as a cunning fool, “ a pretty harlot.” The number of questions which Calvin failed to ask or eluded by absolutely irrational expedients frees him from any taint of modern rationalism. But in Servetus, whose execution he approved, we find an isolated, feeble revolt against assumptions which both Catholics and Protestants of all shades accepted without question. It is pretty clear that the common accounts of the Renaissance and of the revival of learning grossly exaggerate the influence of the writers of Greece and Rome, for they produced no obvious rationalistic movement, as would have been the case had Plato and Cicero, Lucretius and Lucian, been taken really seriously. Neo-Platonism, which is in some respects nearer the Christian patristic than the Hellenic spirit, was as far as the radical religious thinkers of the Italian Renaissance receded. The only religious movement that can be regarded as even rather vaguely the outcome of humanism is the Socinian. Faustus Sozzini, a native of Sienna (1539-1603), much influenced by his uncle Lelio Sozzini, after a wandering, questioning life, found his way to Poland, where he succeeded in uniting the various Anabaptist sects into a species of church, the doctrines of which are set forth in the Confession of Rakow (near Minsk), published in Polish in 1605 and speedily in German and Latin. The Latin edition declares that although this new statement of the elements of the Christian faith differs from the articles of other Christian creeds it is not to be mistaken for a challenge. It does not aim at binding the opinions of men or at condemning to the tortures of hefljfire those who refuse ■ to accept it. Absit a nobis ea mensi immo amentia.    “ We have, it is true,
ventured to prepare a catechism, but we force it on no one; we express our opinions, but we coerce no one. It is free to every one to form his own conclusions in religious matters; and so we do no more than set forth the meaning of divine things as they appear to our minds without, however, attacking or insulting those who differ from us. This is the golden freedom of preaching which the holy words of the New Testa-meut so strictly enjoin upon us. . . . Who art thou, miserable man, who would smother and extinguish in others the fire of God's Spirit which it has pleased him to kindle in them ? " The Socinian creed sprang from intellectual rather than religious motives. Sufficient reasons could be assigned for accepting the New Testament as God's word and Christ as the Christian's guide. He was not God, but a divine prophet born of a virgin and raised on the third day as the first-fruits of them that slept. From the standpoint of the history of enlightenment, as Harnack has observed, “ Socinianism with its systematic criticism (tentative and imperfect as it may now seem) and its rejection of all the assumptions based upon mere ecclesiastical tradition, can scarcely be rated too highly. That modern Unitarianism is all to be traced back to Sozzini and the Rakow Confession need not be assumed. The anti-Trinitarian path was one which opened invitingly before a considerable class of critical minds, seeming as it did to lead out into
a sunny open, remote from the unfathomable depths of mystery and clouds of religious emotion which beset the way of the sincere Catholic and Protestant alike.
The effects of the Protestant secession on the doctrines, organization and practices of the Roman Catholic Church are difficult to estimate, still more so to substantiate. It is clear that the doctrinal conclusions of the council of Trent were largely determined by the necessity of condemning Protestant tenets, and that the result of the council was to give the Roman Catholic faith a more precise form than it would otherwise have had. It is much less certain that the disciplinary reforms which the council, following the example of its predecessors, re-enacted, owed anything to Protestantism, unless indeed the council would have shown itself less intolerant in respect to such innovations as the use of the vernacular in the services had this not smacked of evangelicalism. In the matter of the pope’s supremacy, the council followed the canon law and Thomas Aquinas, not the decrees of the council of Constance. It prepared the way for the dogmatic formulation of the plenitude of the papal power three centuries later by the council of the Vatican. The Protestants have sometimes taken credit to themselves for the indubitable reforms in the Roman Catholic Church, which by the end of the 16th century had done away with many of the crying abuses against which councils and diets had so long been protesting. But this conservative reformation had begun before Luther’s preaching, and might conceivably have followed much the same course had his doctrine never found popular favour or been ratified by the princes.
In conclusion, a word may be said of the place of the Reformation in the history of progress and enlightenment. A “ philosopher,” as Gibbon long ago pointed out, who asks from what articles of faith above and against reason the early Reformers enfranchised their followers will be surprised at their timidity rather than scandalized by their freedom. They remained severely orthodox in the doctrines of the Fathers—the Trinity, the Incarnation, the plenary inspiration of the Bible—and they condemned those who rejected their teachings to a hell whose fires they were not tempted to extenuate. Although they surrendered transubstantiation, the loss of one mystery was amply compensated by the stupendous doctrines of original sin, redemption, faith, grace and predestination upon which they founded their theory of salvation. They ceased to appeal to the Virgin and saints, and to venerate images and relics, procure indulgences and go on pilgrimages, they deprecated the monastic life, and no longer nourished faith by the daily repetition of miracles, but in the witch persecutions their demonology cost the lives of thousands of innocent women. They broke the chain of authority, without, however, recognizing the propriety of toleration. In any attempt to determine the relative importance of Protestant and Catholic countries in promoting modern progress it must not be forgotten that religion is naturally conservative, and that its avowed business has never been to forward scientific research or political reform. Luther and his contemporaries had not in any degree the modern idea of progress, which first becomes conspicuous with Bacon and Descartes, but believed, on the contrary, that the strangling of reason was the most precious of offerings to God. “ Freethinker ” and “ rationalist ” have been terms of opprobrium whether used by Protestants or Catholics. The pursuit of salvation does not dominate by any means the whole life and ambition of even ardent believers; statesmen, philosophers, men of letters, scientific investigators and inventors have commonly gone their way regardless of the particular form of Christianity which prevailed in the land in which they lived. The Reformation was, fundamentally, then, but one phase, if the most conspicuous, in the gradual decline of the majestic medieval ecclesiastical State, for this decline has gone on in France, Austria, Spain and Italy, countries in which the Protestant revolt against the ancient Church ended in failure.
Bibliography.—Reference is made here mainly to works dealing with the Reformation as a whole. Only recent books are mentioned, since the older works have been largely superseded owing to modern critical investigations: Thomas A. Lindsay, A History of the Reformation, 2 vols. (1906-7), the best general treatment; The Cambridge Modern History, vol. i. (1902), chaps, xviii. and xix., vol. ii. (190a), “ The Reformation,” and vol. iii. (190^), “ The Wars of Religion, with very full bibliographies; M. Creighton, History of the Papacy during the Reformation, 6 vols. (new ed. 1899-1901). From a Catholic standpoint: L. Pastor, Geschichte der Päpste seit dem Ausgang des Mittelalters (1891 sqq., especially vol. iv. in two parts, 1906-7, and vol. vv 1909). This is in course of publication and is being translated into English (8 vols. have appeared, 1891-1908, covering the period 1305-1521); J. Janssen, History of the German People at the Close of the Middle Ages, 12 vols., 1896-1907, corresponding to vols. i.-vi. of the German original, in 8 vols., edited by Pastor, 1897-1904. This is the standard Catholic treatment of the Reformation, and is being supplemented by a series of monographs, Ergänzungen zu Janssens Geschichte des deutschen Volkes, which have been appearing since 1898 and correspond with the Protestant Schriften des Vereins für Reformationsgeschichte (1883 sqq.). F. von Bezold, Geschichte der deutschen Reformation (1890), an excellent illustrated account; E. Troeltsch, Protestantisches Christentum und Kirche der Neuzeit, in the series “ Kultur der Gegenwart,” Teil i. Abt. 4, i. Hälfte, 1905; Charles Beard, The Reformation of the Sixteenth Century in its Relation to Modern Thought and Knowledge (The Hibbert Lectures for 1883), and by the same, Martin Luther, vol. i. (no more published; 1889); A. Harnack, History of Dogma (trans. from the 3rd German edition, vol. vii., 1900); A. E. Berger, Die Kultur auf gaben der Reformation (2nd ed., 1908); Thudichum, Patosttum und Reformation (1903); “ Janus,” The Pope and the Council (1869), by Döllinger and others, a suggestive if not wholly accurate sketch of the papal claims; W. Maurenbrecher, Geschichte der Katholischen Reformation, vol. i. (no more published) (1880); J. Haller, Papsttum und Kirchenreform, vol. i. (1903) relates to the 14th century; J. Köstlin, Martin Luther, sein Leben und seine Schriften, new edition by Kawerau, 2 vols., 1903, the most useful life of Luther; H. Denifle, Luther und Luthertum, 2 vols. (1904-6), a bitter but learned arraignment of Luther by a distinguished Dominican scholar. H. Boehmer, Luther im Lichte der neueren Forschungen (1906), brief and suggestive. First Principles of the Reformation, the Three Primary Works of Dr Martin Luther, edited, by Wace and Buchheim,—an English translation of the famous pamphlets of 1520.    (J. H. R.*)
REFORMATORY SCHOOL, an institution for the industrial training of juvenile offenders, in which they are lodged, clothed and fed, as well as taught. They are to be distinguished from “ industrial schools,” which are institutions for potential and not actual delinquents. To reformatory schools in England are sent juveniles up to the age of sixteen who have been convicted of an offence punishable with penal servitude or imprisonment. The order is made by the court before which they are tried; the limit of detention is the age of nineteen. Reformatory schools are regulated by the Children Act 1908, which repealed the Reformatory Schools Act 1866, as amended by acts of 1872, 1874, 1891, 1893, 1899 and 1901. See further Juvenile Offenders.
REFORMED CHURCHES, the name assumed by those Protestant bodies who adqpted the tenets of Zwingli (and later of Calvin), as distinguished from those of the Lutheran or Evangelical divines. They are accordingly often spoken of as the Calvin-istic Churches, Protestant being sometimes used as a synonym for Lutheran. The great difference is in the attitude towards the Lord’s Supper, the Reformed or Calvinistic Churches repudiating not only transubstantiation but also the Lutheran consubstantiation. They also reject the use of crucifixes and other symbols and ceremonies retained by the Lutherans.
Full details of these divergences are given in M.Schneckenburger, Vergleichende Darstellung des lutherischen und reformierten Lehrbegriffs (Stuttgart, 1855); G. B. Winer, Comparative Darstellung (Berlin, 1866; Eng. tr., Edinburgh, 1873). See also Reformation; Presbyterianism; Cameronians.
REFORMED CHURCH IN AMERICA, until 1867 called officially “The Reformed Protestant Dutch Church in North America,” and still 'popularly called the Dutch Reformed Church, an American Calvinist church, originating with the settlers from Holland in New York, New Jersey and Delaware, the first permanent settlers of the Reformed faith in the New World. Their earliest settlements were at Manhattan, Walla-bout and Fort Orange (now Albany), where the West India Company formally established the Reformed Church of Holland.
Their first minister was Jonas Michaelius, pastor in New Amsterdam of the “ church in the fort ” (now the Collegiate Church of New York City). The second domine, Everardus Bogardus (d. 1647), migrated to New York in 1633 with Governor Wouter van Twilier, with whom he quarrelled continually; in the same year a wooden church “ in the fort ” was built; and in 1642 it was succeeded by a stone building. A minister, John van Mckclcnburg (Johannes Megapolcnsis) migrated to Renssclaerwyck manor in 1642, preached to the Indians— probably before any other Protestant minister—and after 1649 was settled in New Amsterdam. With the access of English and French settlers, Samuel Drisius, who preached in Dutch, German, English and French, was summoned, and he laboured in New Amsterdam and New York from 1652 to 1673. On Long Island John T. Polhemus preached at Flatbush in 1654-76. During Peter Stuyvesant’s governorship there was little toleration of other denominations, but the West India Company reversed his intolerant proclamations against Lutherans and Quakers. About 1659 a French and Dutch church was organized in Harlem. The first church in New Jersey, at Bergen, in 1661, was quickly followed by others at Hackensack and Passaic. After English rule in 1664 displaced Dutch in New York, the relations of the Dutch churches there were much less close with the state Church-of Holland; and in 1679 (on the request of the English governor of New York, to whom the people of New Castle appealed) a classis was constituted for the ordination of a pastor for the church in New Castle, Delaware. The Dutch strongly opposed the establishment of the Church of England, and contributed largely toward the adoption (in October 1683) of the Charter of Liberties which confirmed in their privileges all churches then “ in practice ” in the city of New York and elsewhere in the province, but which was repealed by James II. in 1686, when he established the Church of England in New York but allowed religious liberty to the Dutch and others. The Dutch ministers stood by James’s government during Leisler’s rebellion. Under William III., Governors Sloughter and Fletcher worked for a law (passed in 1693 and approved in 1697) for the settling of a ministry in New York, Richmond, Westchester and Queen's counties; but the Assembly foiled Fletcher’s purpose of establishing a Church of England clergy, although he attempted to construe the act as applying only to the English Church. In 1696 the first church charter in New York was granted to the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church (now the Collegiate Church) of New York City; at this time there were Dutch ministers at Albany and Kingston, on Long Island and in New Jersey; and for years the Dutch and English (Episcopalian) churches alone received charters in New York and New Jersey—the Dutch church being treated practically as an establishment—and the church of the fort and Trinity (Episcopalian; chartered 1697) were fraternally harmonious. In 1700 there were twenty-nine Reformed Dutch churches out of a total of fifty in New York. During the administration of Governor Edward Hyde, Lord Cornbury, many members joined the Episcopal Church and others removed to New Jersey. The Great Awakening crowned the efforts of Theodore J. Frelinghuysen, who had come over as a Dutch pastor in 1720 and had opposed formalism and preached a revival. The Church in America in 1738 asked the Classis of Amsterdam (to whose care it had been transferred from the West India Company) for the privilege of forming a Coetus or Association with power to ordain in America; the Classis, after trying to join the Dutch with the English Presbyterian churches, granted (1747) a Coetus first to the German and then to the Dutch churches, which therefore in September 1754 organized themselves into a classis. This action was opposed by the church of New York City, and partly through this difference and partly because of quarrels over the denominational control of King’s College (now Columbia), five members of the Coetus seceded, and as the president of the Coetus was one of them they took the records with them; they were called the Con-ferentie; they organized independently in 1764 and carried on a bitter warfare with the Coetus (now more properly called
the American Classis), which in 1766 (and again in 1770) obtained a charter for Queen’s (now Rutgers) College at New Brunswick. But in 1771-72 through the efforts of John H. Livingston (1746-1825), who had become pastor of the New York City church in 1770, on the basis of a plan drafted by the Classis of Amsterdam Coetus and Confercntie were reunited with a substantial independence of Amsterdam, which was made complete in 1792 when the Synod (the nomenclature of synod and classis had been adopted upon the declaration of American Independence) adopted a translation of the eighty-four Articles of Dort on Church Order with seventy-three “explanatory articles.”@@1  In 1800 there were about forty ministers and one hundred churches. In 1819 the Church was incorporated as the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church; and in 1867 the name was changed to the Reformed Church in America. Preaching in Dutch had nearly ceased in 1820, but about 1846 a new Dutch immigration began, especially in Michigan, and fifty years later Dutch preaching was common in nearly one-third of the churches of the country, only to disappear almost entirely in the next decade. Union with other Reformed churches was planned in 1743, in 1784, in 1816-20, 1873-78 and 1886, but unsuccessfully; however, ministers go from one to another charge in the Dutch and German Reformed, Presbyterian, and to a less degree Congregational churches.
A conservative secession “ on account of Hopkinsian errors ” in 1822 of six ministers (five then under suspension) organized a General Synod and the classes of Hackensack and Union (central New York) in 1824; it united with the Christian Reformed Church, established by immigrants from Holland after 1835, to which there was added a fresh American secession in 1882 due to opposition (on the part of the secedcrs) to secret societies.
The organization of the Church is: a General Synod (1794); the (particular) synods of New York (1800), Albany (1800), Chicago (1856) and New Brunswick Ji869); classes, corresponding to the presbyteries of other Calvinistic^ bodies; and the churches, numbering, in 1906, 659. The agencies of the Church are: the Board of Education, privately organized in 1828 and adopted by the General Synod in 1831; a Widows’ Fund (1837) and a Disabled Ministers’ Fund; a Board of Publication (1855); a Board of Domestic Missions (1831; reorganized 1849) with a Church Building Fund and a Woman’s Executive Committee; a Board of Foreign Missions (1832) succeeding the United Missionary Society (1816), which included Presbyterian, Dutch Reformed and Associate Reformed Churches, and which was merged (1826) in the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, from which the Dutch Church did not entirely separate itself until 1857; and a Woman’s Board of Foreign Missions (1875). The principal missions are in India at Arcot (1854; transferred in 1902 to the Synod of
S. India) and at Amoy in China (1842); and the work of the Church in Japan was very successful, especially under Guido Fridolin Verbeck@@* (1830-1898), and 1877 native churches built up by Presbyterian and Dutch Reformed missionaries were organized as the United Church of our Lord Jesus Christ in Japan. There is also an Arabian mission, begun privately in 1888 and transferred to the Board in 1894.
The colleges and institutions of learning connected with the Church are: Rutgers, already mentioned; Union College (1795), the outgrowth of Schenectady Academy, founded in 1785 by Dirck Romeyn, a Dutch minister; Hope College (1866; coeducational) at Holland, Michigan, originally a parochial school (1850) and then (1855) Holland Academy; the Theological Seminary at New Brunswick (q.v.)\ and the Western Theological Seminary (1869) at Holland, Michigan.
In 1906 (according to Bulletin 103 (1909) of the Bureau of the U.S. Census) there were 659 organizations with 773 church edifices reported and the total membership was 12^,938. More than one-half of this total membership (63,350) was m New York state, the 'principal home of the first great Dutch immigration; more than one-quarter (32,290) was in New Jersey; and the other states were: Michigan (11,260), Illinois (4962), Iowa (4835), Wisconsin (2^12), and Pennsylvania 0979)* The Church was also represented in Minnesota, S. Dakota, Oklahoma, Nebraska, Indiana, Ohio, Kansas, N. Dakota, S. Carolina, Washington and Maryland—the order being that of rank in number of communicants.
The Christian Reformed Church, an “ old school ” secession, had in 1906, 174 organizations, 181 churches and a membership of 26,669,
@@@1 In 1832 the articles of Church government were rearranged and in 1872-74 they were amended.
@@@5 See W. E. Griffis, Verbeck of Japan (New York, 1900).
of which more than one-half (14,779) was in Michigan, where many of the immigrants who came after 1835 belonged to the secession church in Holland. There were 2990 in Iowa, 2392 in New Jersey, 2332 in Illinois, and smaller numbers in Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, S. Dakota, Ohio, New York, Washington, Kansas, Massachusetts, Montana, N. Dakota, New Mexico, Nebraska and Colorado.    _    ....    .    ,, .
See D. D. Demarest, The Reformed Church tn America (New York, 1889); E. T. Corwin, The Manual of the Reformed Church tn America (ibid., 4th ed., 1902), his sketch of the history of the Church in vol. viii. (ibid., 1895) of the American Church History Series, and his Ecclesiastical Records of the State of New York (Albany, 1901 sqq.), published by the State of New York.
REFORMED CHURCH IN THE UNITED STATES, a
German Calvinistic church in America, commonly called the German Reformed Church. It traces its origin to the great German immigration of the 17 th century, especially to Pennsylvania, where, although the German Lutherans afterwards outnumbered them, the Reformed element was estimated in 1730 to be more than half the whole number of Germans in the colony. In 1709 more than 2000 Palatines emigrated to New York with their pastor, Johann Friedrich Hager (d. c. 1723), who laboured in the Mohawk Valley. A church in Germantown, Virginia, was founded about 1714. Johann Philip Boehm (d. 1749), a school teacher from Worms, although not ordained, preached after 1725 to congregations at Falckner’s Swamp, Skippack, and White Marsh, Pennsylvania, and in 1729 he was ordained by Dutch Reformed ministers in New York. Georg Michael Weiss (c. 1700-c. 1762), a graduate of Heidelberg, ordained and sent to America by the Upper Consistory of the Palatinate in 1727, organized a church in Philadelphia; preached at Skippack; worked in Dutchess and Schoharie counties, New York, in 1731-46; and then returned to his old field in Pennsylvania. Johann Heinrich Goetschius was pastor (c. 1731-38) of ten churches in Pennsylvania, and was ordained by the Presbyterian Synod of Philadelphia in 1737. A part of his work was undertaken by Johann Conrad Wirtz, who was ordained by the New Brunswick (New Jersey) Presbytery in 1750, and in 1761-63 was pastor at York, Pennsylvania. A church was built in 1736 at Lancaster, Pennsylvania, where Johann Bartholomaeus Rieger (1707-1769), who came from Germany with Weiss on his return in 1731, had preached for several years. Michael Schlatter (1716-1790), a Swiss of St Gall, sent to America in 1746 by the Synods (Dutch Reformed) of Holland, immediately convened Boehm, Weiss and Rieger in Philadelphia, and with them planned a Coetus, which first met in September 1747; in 1751 he presented the cause of the Coetus in Germany and Holland, where he gathered funds; in 1752 came back to America with six ministers, one of whom, William Stoy (1726-1801), was an active opponent of the Coetus and of clericalism after 1772. Thereafter Schlatter's work was in the charity schools of Pennsylvania, which the people thought were tinged with Episcopalianism. Many churches and pastors were independent of the Coetus, notably John Joachim Zubly (1724-1781), of St Gall, who migrated to S. Carolina in 1726, and was a delegate to the Continental Congress from Georgia, but opposed independence and was banished from Savannah in 1777. Within the Coetus there were two parties. Of the Pietists of the second class one of the leaders was Philip William Otterbein (1726-1813), born in Dillenburg, Nassau, whose system of class-meetings was the basis of a secession from which grew the United Brethren in Christ, commonly called the “New Reformed Church,” organized in 1800. During the War of Independence the Pennsylvania, members of the Church were mostly attached to the American cause, and Nicholas Herkimer and Baron von Steuben were both Reformed; but in New York and in the South there were many German Loyalists.
Franklin College was founded by Lutherans and Reformed, with much outside help, notably that of Benjamin Franklin, at Lancaster, Pennsylvania, in 1787.
The Coetus had actually assumed the power of ordination in 1772 and formally assumed it in 1791; in 1792 a synodical constitution was prepared; and in 1793 the first independent
synod met in Lancaster and adopted the constitution, thus becoming independent of Holland. Its churches numbered 178, and there were about 15,000 communicants. The strongest churches were those of Philadelphia, Lancaster and Germantown in Pennsylvania, and Frederick in Maryland. The German Reformed churches in Lunenburg county, Nova Scotia, became Presbyterian in 1837; a German church in Waldoboro, Maine, after a century, became Congregational in 1850. The New York churches became Dutch Reformed. The New Jersey churches rapidly fell away, becoming Presbyterian, Dutch Reformed, or Lutheran. In Virginia many churches became Episcopalian and others United Brethren. By 1825, 13 Reformed ministers were settled W. of the Alleghanies. The Synod in 1819 divided itself into eight Classes. In 1824 the Classis of Northampton, Pennsylvania (13 ministers and 80 congregations), became the Synod of Ohio, the parent Synod having refused to allow the Classis to ordain. In 1825 there were 87 ministers, and in the old Synod about 23,300 communicants.
A schism over the establishment of a theological seminary resulted in the organization of a new synod of the “ Free German Reformed Congregations of Pennsylvania,” which returned to the parent synod in 1837.
John Winebrenner (q.v.), pastor in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, left the Church in 1828, and in 1830 organized the “ Church of God ”; his main doctrinal difference with the Reformed Church was on infant baptism.
In 1825 the Church opened a theological seminary at Carlisle, Pennsylvania, affiliated with Dickinson College. James Ross Reily (1788-1844) travelled in Holland and Germany, collecting money and books for the seminary. It was removed in 1829 to York, where an academy was connected with it; in 1835 the academy (which in 1836 became Marshall College) and in 1837 the seminary removed to Mercersburg, where, in 1840, John W. Nevin (q.v.) became its president, and with Philip Schaff (g.t>.) founded the Mercersburg theology, which lost to the Church many who objected to Nevin’s (and SchafFs) Romanizing tendencies. The seminary was removed in 1871 from Mercersburg to Lancaster, whither the college had gone in 1853 to form, with Franklin College, Franklin and Marshall College.
In 1842 the Western Synod (i.e. the Synod of Ohio) adopted the constitution of the Eastern, and divided into classes. It founded in 1850 a theological school and Heidelberg University at Tiffin, Ohio. The Synods organized a General Synod in 1863. New German Synods were: that of the North-West (1867), organized at Fort Wayne, Ind.; that of the East (1875), organized at Philadelphia; and the Central Synod (1881), organized at Gabon, Ohio. New English Synods were: that of Pittsburg (1870); that of the Potomac (1873); and that of the Interior (1887), organized at Kansas City, Missouri. In 1894 there were eight district synods.
After a long controversy over a liturgy (connected in part with the Mercersburg controversy) a Direclory of Worship was adopted in 1887.
The principal organizations of the Church are: the Board of Publication (1844); the Society for the Relief of Ministers and their Widows (founded in 1755 by the Pennsylvania Coetus; incorporated in 1810; transferred to the Synod in 1833); a Board of Domestic Missions (1826); a Board of Foreign Missions (1838; reorganized in 1873), which planted a mission in Japan (1879), now a part of the Union Church of Japan, and one in China (1900). The Church - has publishing houses in Philadelphia (replacing that of Chambers-burg, Pa., founded in 1840 and destroyed in July 1864 by the Confederate army) and in Cleveland, Ohio.
Colleges connected with the Church, besides the seminary ^ at Lancaster, Franklin and Marshall College and Heidelberg University, are: Catawba College (1851) at Newton, North Carolina; and Ursinus College (1869), founded by the Low Church wing, at Collegeville, Pennsylvania, which had, until 1908, a theological seminary, then removed to Dayton, Ohio, where it united with Heidelberg Theological Seminary (until 1908 at Tiffin) to form the Central Theological Seminary.    , e _    , .
In 1906, according to Bulletin 103 (1909) of the Bureau of the United States Census, the Church had 1736 organizations in the
United States, 1740 churches and 292,654 communicants, of whom 177,270 were in Pennsylvania, and about one-sixth (50,732) were in Ohio. Other states in which the Church had communicants were: Maryland (13,442), Wisconsin (8386), Indiana (8289), New York (5700), North 'Carolina (4718), Iowa (3692), Illinois (2652), Virginia (2288), Kentucky (2101), Michigan (1666), Nebraska (1616), and (less than 1500 in each of the following arranged in rank) S. Dakota, Missouri, New Jersey, Connecticut, Kansas, W. Virginia. N. Dakota, Minnesota, District of Columbia, Oregon, Massachusetts, Tennessee, California, Colorado, Arkansas and Oklahoma.
See James L Good, History of the Reformed Church in the United States, 1725-1792 (Reading, Pa., 1899), and Historical Handbook (Philadelphia, 1902); and the sketch by Joseph Henry Dubbs in vol. viii. (New York, 1895) of the American Church History Series.
REFORMED EPISCOPAL CHURCH, a Protestant community in the United States of America, dating from December 1873. The influence of the Tractarian movement began to be felt at an early date in the Episcopal Church of the United States, and the ordination of Arthur Carey in New York, July 1843, a clergyman who denied that there was any difference in points of faith between the Anglican and the Roman Churches and considered the Reformation an unjustifiable act, brought into relief the antagonism between Low Church and High Church, a struggle which went on for a generation with increasing bitterness. The High Church party lost no opportunity of arraigning any Low Churchman who conducted services in non-episcopal churches, and as the Triennial Conference gave no heed to remonstrances on the part of these ecclesiastical offenders they came to the conclusion that they must either crush their consciences or seek relief in separation. The climax was reached when George D. Cummins (1822-1876), assistant bishop of Kentucky, was angrily attacked for officiating at the united communion service held at the meeting of the Sixth General Conference of the Evangelical Alliance in New York, October 1873. This prelate resigned his charge in the Episcopal Church on November irth, and a month later, with seven other clergymen and a score of laymen, constituted the Reformed Episcopal Church. Cummins was chosen as presiding officer of the new body, and consecrated Charles E. Cheney (b. r836), rector of Christ Church, Chicago, to be bishop. The following Declaration of Principles (here abridged) was promulgated:—
I.    An expression of belief in the Bible as the Word of God, and the sole rule of faith and practice, in the Apostles’ Creed, in the divine institution of the two sacraments and in the doctrines of grace substantially as set out in the 39 Articles.
II.    The recognition of Episcopacy not as of divine right but as a very ancient and desirable form of church polity.
III.    An acceptance of the Prayer Book as revised by the General Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church in 1785, with •liberty to revise it as may seem most conducive to the edification of the people.
IV.    A condemnation of certain positions, viz.:—
(а)    That the Church of God exists only in one form of ecclesi
astical polity.
(б)    That Christian ministers as distinct from all believers
have any special priesthood.
(c) That the Lord^s Table is an altar on which the body and blood of Christ are offered anew to the Father.
(1d) That the presence of Christ is a material one.
(e) That Regeneration is inseparably connected with Baptism.
The Church recognizes no orders of ministry, presbyters and deacons; the Episcopate is an office, not an order, the bishop being the chief presbyter, primus inter pares. There are some 7 bishops, 85 clergy and about 9500 communicants. £1600 annually is raised for foreign missionary work in India. The Church was introduced into England in 1877, and has in that country a presiding bishop and about 20 organized congregations. The Church has a theological seminary in Philadelphia.
REFRACTION (Lat. refringere, to break open or apart), in physics, the change in the direction of a wave of light, heat or sound which occurs when such a wave passes from one medium into another of different density.
I. Refraction of Light
When a ray of light traversing a homogeneous medium falls on the bounding surface of another transparent homogeneous medium, it is found that the direction of the transmitted ray in the second medium is different from that of the incident ray; in other words, the ray is refracted or bent at the point of incidence. The laws governing refraction are: (1) the refracted and incident rays are coplanar with the normal to the refracting surface at the point of incidence, and (2) the ratio of the sines of the angles between the normal and the incident and refracted rays is constant for the two media, but depends on the nature of the light employed, i.e. on its wave length. This constant is called the relative refractive index of the second medium, and may be denoted by /iab, the suffix ab signifying that the light passes from medium a to medium b; similarly μ*α denotes the relative refractive index of a with regard to b. The absolute refractive index is the index when the first medium is a vacuum. Elementary phenomena in refraction, such as the apparent bending of a stick when partially immersed in water, were observed in very remote times, but the laws, as stated above, were first grasped in the Γ/th century by W. Snell and published by Descartes, the full importance of the dependence of the refractive index on the nature of the light employed being first thoroughly realized by Newton in his famous prismatic decomposition of white light into a coloured spectrum. Newton gave a theoretical interpretation of these laws on the basis of his corpuscular theory, as did also Huygens on the wave theory (see Light, H. Theory of). In this article we only consider refractions at plane surfaces, refraction at spherical surfaces being treated under Lens. The geometrical theory will, be followed, the wave theory being treated in Light, Diffraction and Dispersion.
Refraction at a Plane Surface.—Let LM (fig. 1) Jbe the surface
dividing two homogeneous media A and B; let 10 be a ray in the first medium incident on LM at O, and let OR be the refracted ray. Draw the normal POQ. Then by Snell’s law we have invariably sin^ IOP/sin QOR=jue &. Hence if two of these quantities^ be given the third can be calculated. The commonest question is: Given the incident ray and the refractive index to construct the refracted ray. A simple construction is to take along the incident ray 01, unit distance OC, and a distance OD equal to the refractive index in the same units. Draw CE perpendicular to LM, and draw an arc with centre O and radius OD, cutting CE in E. Then EO produced downwards is the refracted ray. The proof is left to the reader.
In the figure the given incident ray is assumed to be passing from a less dense to a denser medium, and it is seen by the construction or by examining the formula sin β — sln α/μ that for all values of a there is a corresponding value of β. Consider the case when the light passes from a denser to a less dense medium. In the equation sin /S=sin α/μ we have in this case ju<i. Now if sin a</i, we have sin α/μ< i, and hence β is real. If sin a —μ, then sin jS=i, i.e. £ — 90°; in other words, the refracted ray in the second medium passes parallel to and grazes the bounding surface. The angle of incidence, which is given by sin δ = ι/μ, is termed the critical angle. For greater values it is obvious that sin α/μ>\ and there is no refraction into the second medium, the rays being totally reflected back into the first medium; this is called total internal reflection.
Images produced by Refraction at Plane Surfaces.—If a luminous
Coint be situated in a medium separated from one of less density y a plane surface, the ray normal to this surface will be unrefracted, whilst the others will undergo refraction according to their angles of emergence. If the rays in the less dense medium be produced into the denser medium, they envelop a caustic, but by restricting ourselves to a small area about the normal ray it is seen that they intersect this ray in a point which is the geometrical
image of the luminous source. The position of this point can be easily determined. If / be the distance of the source below the surface, V the distance of the image, and ju the refractive index, then    This theory provides a convenient method for
determining the refractive index of a plate. A micrometer microscope, with vertical motion, is focused on a scratch on the surface of its stage; the plate, which has a fine ^ratch on its upper surface, is now introduced, and the microscope is successively focused on the scratch on the stage as viewed through the plate, and on the scratch on the plate. The difference between the first and third readings gives the thickness of the plate, corresponding to l above, and between the second and third readings the depth of the image, corresponding to
Refraction by a Prism.—In optics a prism is a piece of transparent material bounded by two plane faces which meet at a definite angle, called the refracting angle of the prism, in a straight line called the edge of the prism; a section perpendicular to the edge is called a principal section. Parallel rays, refracted successively at the two faces, emerge from the prism as a system of parallel rays, but the direction is altered by an amount called the deviation. The deviation depends on the angles of incidence and emergence; but, since the course of a ray may always be reversed, there must be a stationary value, either a maximum or minimum, when the ray traverses the prism symmetrically, i.e. when the angles of incidence and emergence are equal. As a matter of fact, it is a minimum, and the position is called the angle of minimum deviation. The relation between the minimum deviation D, the angle of the prism t, and the refractive index fj, is found as follows. Let in fig. 2, PQRS be the course of the
ray through the prism; the internal angles <t>\ each equal \it and the angles of incidence and emergence <£, ^ are each equal and connected with <f>' by Snell’s law, i.e. sin <£ = ju sin 4>*. Also the deviation D is 2 (<£ — <£'). Hence /¿ = sin 0/sin 0' = sinj (D-f-i)/sin£f.
Refractometers.—Instruments for dctermin'ng the refractive indices of media are termed refractometers.
The simplest are really spectrometers, consisting of a glass prism, usually hollow and fitted with accurately parallel glass sides, mounted on a table which carries a fixed collimation tube and a movable observing tube, the motion of the latter being recorded* on a graduated circle. The collimation tube has a narrow adjustable slit at its outer end and a lens at the nearer end, so that the light leaves the tube as a parallel beam. The refracting angle of the prism, i in our previous notation, is determined by placing the prism with its refracting edge towards the collimator, and observing when the reflections of the slit in the two prism faces coincide with the cross-wires in the observing telescope; half the angle between these two positions gives i. To determine the position of minimum deviation, or D, the prism is removed, and the observing telescope is brought into line with the slit; in this position the graduation is read. The prism is replaced, and the telescope moved until it catches the refracted rays. The prism is now turned about a vertical axis until a position is found when the telescope has to be moved towards the collimator in order to catch the rays; this operation sets the prism at the angle of minimum deviation. The refractive index ¡i is calculated from the formula given above.
More readily manipulated and of superior accuracy are refractometers depending on total reflection. The Abbe refractomcter (fig· 3) essentially consists of a double Abbe prism AB to contain the substance to be experimented with; and a telescope to observe the border line of the total reflection. The prisms, which are right-angled and made of the same flint glass, are mounted in a hinged frame such that the lower prism, which is used for purposes of illumination, can be locked so that the hypothenuse faces are distant by about 0*15 mm.: or rotated away from the upper prism. The double prism is used in examining liquids, a few drops being placed between the prisms; the single prism is used when solids or plastic bodies are employed. The mount is capable of rotation about a horizontal axis by an alidade J. The telescope is provided with a reticule, which can be brought into exact coincidence with the observed border line, and is rigidly fastened to a sector
S graduated directly in refractive indices. The reading is effected by a lens L. Beneath the orisms is a mirror for rnflprfW liaht
into the apparatus. To use the apparatus, the liquid having been inserted between the prisms, or the solid attached by its own adhesiveness or by a drop of monobromnaphthalene to the upper {irism, the prism case is rotated until the field of view consists of a light and dark portion, and the border line is now brought into coincidence with the reticule of the telescope. In using a lamp or daylight this border is coloured, and hence a compensator, consisting of two equal Amici prisms, is placed between the objective and the^ prisms. These Amici prisms can be rotated, in opposite directions, until they produce a dispersion opposite in sign to that originally seen, and hence the border line now appears perfectly sharp and colourless. When at zero the alidade corresponds to a refractive index of 1*3, and any other reading gives the corresponding index correct to about 2 units in the 4th decimal place. Since temperature markedly affects the refractive index, this apparatus is provided with a device for heating the prisms. Figs. 4 and 5 show the course of the rays when a solid and liquid
are being experimented with. Dr R. Wollny’s butter refractomcter, also made by Zeiss, is constructed similarly to Abbe’s form, with the exception that the prism casing is rigidly attached to the telescope, and the observation made by noting the point where the border line intersects an appropriately graduated scale in the focal plane of the tele'fccopc objective, fractions being read by a micrometer screw attached to the objective. This apparatus is afso provided with an arrangement for heating. ^
This method of reading is also employed in Zeiss’s “ dipping refractometer ” (fig. 6). This instrument consists of a telescope R having at its lower end a prism P with a refracting angle of 63°, above which and below the objective is a movable compensator A for purposes of annulling the dispersion about the border line. In
the focal plane of the objective O there is a scale Sc, exact reading being made by a micrometer Z. If a large quantity of liquid be
available it is sufficient to dip the refractometer perpendicularly into a beaker containing the liquid and to transmit light into the instrument by means of a mirror. If only a smaller quantity be available, it is enclosed in a metal beaker M, which forms an extension of the instrument, and the liquid is retained there by a plate D. The instrument is now placed in a trough B, containing water and having one side of ground glass G; light is reflected into the refractometer by means of a mirror S outside this trough. An accuracy of 3-7 units in the 5th decimal place is obtainable.
The Pulfrich refractometer is also largely used, especially for liquids. It consists essentially of a right-angled glass prism placed on a metal foundation with the faces at right angles horizontal and vertical, the hypothenuse face being on the support. The horizontal face is fitted with a small cylindrical vessel to hold the liquid. Light is led to the prism at grazing incidence by means of a collimator, and is refracted through the vertical face, the deviation being observed by a telescope rotating about a graduated circle. From this the refractive index is readily calculated if the refractive index of the prism for the light used be known: a fact supplied by the maker. The instrument is also available for determining the refractive index of isotropic solids. A little of the solid is placed in the vessel and a mixture of monobromnaph-thalene and acetone (in which the solid must be insoluble) is added, and adjustment made by adding either one or other liquid until the border line appears sharp, i.e. until the liquid has the same index as the solid.
The Herbert Smith refractometer (fig. 7) is especially suitable for determining the refractive index of gems, a constant which is
most valuable in distinguishing the precious stones. It consists of a hemisphere of very dense glass, having its plane surface fixed
at a certain angle to the axis of the instrument. Light is admitted by a window on the under side, which is inclined at the same angle, but in the opposite sense, to the axis. The light on emerging from the hemisphere is received by a convex lens, in the focal plane of which is a scale graduated to read directly in refractive indices. The light then traverses a positive eye-piece. To use the instrument for a gem, a few drops of methylenc iodide (the refractive index of which may be raised to ι·8οο by dissolving sulphur in.it) are placed on the plane surface of the hemisphere and a facet of the stone then brought into contact with the surface. If monochromatic light be used (i.e. the D line of the sodium flame) the field is sharply divided into a light and a dark portion, and the position of the line of demarcation on the scale immediately gives the refractive index. It is necessary for the liquid to have a higher refractive index than the crystal, and also that there is close contact between the facet and the lens. The range of the instrument is between 1*400 and 1*760, the results being correct to two units in the third decimal place if sodium light be used. (C. E.*)
II. Double Refraction
That a stream of light on entry into certain media can give rise to two refracted pencils was discovered in the case of Iceland spar by Erasmus Bartholinus, who found that one pencil had a direction given by the ordinary law of refraction, but that the other was bent in accordance with a new law that he was unable to determine. This law was discovered about eight years later by Christian Huygens. According to Huygens’ fundamental principle, the law of refraction is determined by the form and orientation of the wave-surface in the crystal— the locus of points to which a disturbance emanating from a luminous point travels in unit time. In the case of a doubly refracting medium the wave-surface must have two sheets, one of which is spherical, if one of the pencils obey in all cases the ordinary law of refraction. Now Huygens observed that a natural crystal of spar behaves in precisely the same way whichever pair of faces the light passes through, and inferred from this fact that the second sheet of the wave-surface must be a surface of revolution round a line equally inclined to the faces of the rhomb, i.e. round the axis of the crystal. He accordingly assumed it to be a spheroid, and finding that refraction in the direction of the axis was the same for both streams, he concluded that the sphere and the spheroid touched one another in the axis.
So far as his experimental means permitted, Huygens verified the law of refraction deduced from this hypothesis, hut its correctness remained unrecognized until the measures of W. H. Wollaston in 1802 and of E. T. Malus in 1810. More recently its truth has been established with far more perfect optical appliances by R. T. Glazebrook, Ch. S. Hastings and others.
In the case of Iceland spar and several other crystals the extraordinarily refracted stream is refracted away from the axis, but Jean Baptiste Biot in 1814 discovered that in many cases the reverse occurs, and attributing the extraordinary refractions to forces that act as if they emanated from the axis, he called crystals of the latter kind “ attractive,” those of the former “ repulsive.” They are now termed “ positive ” and “ negative ” respectively; and Huygens’ law applies to both classes, the spheroid being prolate in the case of positive, and oblate in the case of negative crystals. It was at first supposed that Huygens’ law applied to all doubly refracting media. Sir David Brewster, however, in 1815, while examining the rings that are seen round the optic axis in polarized light, discovered a number of crystals that possess two optic axes. He showed, moreover, that such crystals belong to the rhombic, monoclinic and anorthic (triclinic) systems, those of the tetragonal and hexagonal systems being unianal, and those of the cubic system being optically isotropic.
Huygens found in the course of his researches that the streams that had traversed a rhomb of Iceland spar had acquired new properties with respect to transmission through a second crystal. This phenomenon is called polarization (q.v.), and the waves are said to be polarized—the ordinary in its principal plane and the extraordinary in a plane perpendicular to its principal plane, the principal plane of a wave being the plane containing its normal and the axis of the crystal. From the facts of polarization Augustin Jean Fresnel deduced that the
vibrations in plane polarized light are rectilinear and in the plane of the wave, and arguing from the symmetry of uniaxal crystals that vibrations perpendicular to the axis áre propagated with the same speed in all directions, he pointed out that this would explain the existence of an ordinary wave, and the relation between its speed and that of the extraordinary wave. From these ideas Fresnel was forced to the conclusion, that he at once verified experimentally, that in hiaxal crystals there is no spherical wave, since there is no single direction round which such crystals are symmetrical; and, recognizing the difficulty of a direct determination of the wave-surface, he attempted to represent the laws of double refraction by the aid of a simpler surface.
The essential problem is the determination of the propaga-tional speeds of plane waves as dependent upon the directions of their normals. These being known, the deduction of the wave-surface follows at once, since it is to be regarded as the envelope at any subsequent time of all the plane waves that at a given instant may be supposed to pass through a given point, the ray corresponding to any tangent plane or the direction of transport of energy being by Huygens’ principle the radius-vector from the centre to the point of contact. Now Fresnel perceived that in uniaxal crystals the speeds of plane waves in any direction are by Huygens’ law the reciprocals of the semiaxes of the central section, parallel to the wave-fronts, of a spheroid, whose polar and equatorial axes are the reciprocals of the equatorial and polar axes of the spheroidal sheet of Huygens’ wave-surface, and that the plane of polarization of a wave is perpendicular to the axis that determines its speed. Hence it occurred to him that similar relations with respect to an ellipsoid with three unequal axes would give the speeds and polarizations of the waves in a biaxal crystal, and the results thus deduced he found to be in accordance with all known facts. This ellipsoid is called the ellipsoid of polarization, the index ellipsoid and the indicatrix.    ‘    %
We may go a step further; for by considering the intersection of a wave-front with two waves, whose normals are indefinitely near that of the first and lie in planes perpendicular and parallel respectively to its plane of polarization, it is easy to show that the ray corresponding to the wave is parallel to the line in which the former of the two planes intersects the tangent plane to the ellipsoid at the end of the semi-diameter that determines the wave-velocity; and it follows by similar triangles that the ray-velocity is the reciprocal of the length of the perpendicular from the centre on this tangent plane. The laws of double refraction are thus contained in the following proposition. The propagational speed of a plane wave in any direction is given by the reciprocal of one of the semi-axes of the central section of the ellipsoid of polarization parallel to the wave; the plane of polarization of the wave is perpendicular to this axis; the corresponding ray is parallel to the line of intersection of the tangent plane at the end of the axis and the plane containing the axis and the wave-normal; the ray-velocity is the reciprocal of the length of the perpendicular from the centre on the tangent plane. By reciprocating with respect to a sphere of unit radius concentric with the ellipsoid, we obtain a similar proposition in which the ray takes the place of the wave-normal, the ray-velocity that of the wave-slowness (the reciprocal of the velocity) and vice versa. The wave-surface is thus the apsidal surface of the reciprocal ellipsoid; this gives the simplest means of obtaining its equation, and it is readily seen that its section by each plane of optical symmetry consists of an ellipse and a circle, and that in the plane of greatest and least wave-velocity these curves intersect in four points. The radii-vectors to these points are called the ray-axes.
When the wave-front is parallel to either system of circular sections of the ellipsoid of polarization, the problem of finding the axes of the parallel central section becomes indeterminate, and all waves in this direction are propagated with the same speed, whatever may he their polarization. The normals to the circular sections are thus the optic axes. To determine the rays corresponding to an optic axis, we may note that the ray and the 'perpendiculars to it through the centre, in planes perpendicular and parallel to that of the ray and the optic axis, are three lines intersecting at right angles of which the two latter are confined to given planes, viz. the central circular section of the ellipsoid and the normal section of the cylinder touching the ellipsoid along this section: whence by a known proposition the ray describes a cone whose sections parallel to the given planes are circles. Thus a plane perpendicular to the optic axis touches the wave-surface along a circle. Similarly the normals to the circular sections of the reciprocal ellipsoid, or the axes of the tangent cylinders to the polarization-ellipsoid that have circular normal sections, are directions of single-ray velocity or ray-axes, and it may be shown as above that corresponding to a ray-axis there is a cone of wave-normals with circular sections parallel to the normal section of the corresponding tangent cylinder, and its plane of contact with the ellipsoid. Hence the extremities of the ray-axes are conical points on the wave-surface. These peculiarities of the wave-surface are the cause of the celebrated conical refractions discovered by Sir William Rowan Hamilton and H. Lloyd, which afford a decisive proof of the general correctness of Fresnel’s wave-surface, though they cannot, as Sir G. Gabriel Stokes {Math, and Phys. Papers, iv. 184) has pointed out, be employed to decide between theories that lead to this surface as a near approximation.
In general, both the direction and the magnitude of the axes of the polarization-ellipsoid depend upon the frequency of the light and upon the temperature, but in many cases the possible variations are limited by considerations of symmetry. Thus the optic axis of a uniaxal crystal is invariable, being determined hy the principal axis of the system to which it belongs: most crystals are of the same sign for all colours, the refractive indices and their difference both increasing with the frequency, but a few crystals are of opposite sign for the extreme spectral colours, becoming isotropic for some intermediate wave-length. In crystals of the rhombic system the axes of the ellipsoid coincide in all cases with the crystallographic axes, but in a few cases their order of magnitude changes so that the plane of the optic axes for red light is at right angles to that for blue light, the crystal being uniaxal for an intermediate colour. In the case of the monoclinic system one axis is in the direction of the axis of the system, and this is generally, though there are notable exceptions, either the* greatest, the least, or the intermediate axis of the ellipsoid for all colours and temperatures. In the latter case the optic axes are in the plane of symmetry, and a variation of their acute bisectrix occasions the phenomenon known as “ inclined dispersion in the two former cases the plane of the optic axes is perpendicular to the plane of symmetry, and if it vary with the colour of the light, the crystals exhibit “ crossed ” or “ horizontal dispersion ” according as it is the acute or the obtuse bisectrix that is in the fixed direction.
The optical constants of a crystal may be determined either with a prism or by observations of total reflection. In the latter case the phenomenon is characterized by two angles—the critical angle and the angle between the plane of incidence and the line limiting the region of total reflection in the field of view. With any crystalline surface there are four cases in which this latter angle is 90°, and the principal refractive indices of the crystal are obtained from those calculated from the corresponding critical angles, by excluding that one of the mean values for which the plane of polarization of the limiting rays is perpendicular to the plane of incidence. A difficulty, however, may arise when the crystalline surface is very nearly the plane of the optic axes, as the plane of polarization in the second mean case is then also very nearly perpendicular to the plane of incidence; but since the two mean refractive indices will be very different, the ambiguity can be removed by making, as may easily be done, an approximate measure of the angle between the optic axes and comparing it with the values calculated by using in turn each of these indices (C. M. Viola, Zeit, für Kryst., 1902, 36, p. 245).
A substance originally isotropic can acquire the optical
properties of a crystal under the influence of homogeneous strain, the principal axes of the wave-surface being parallel to those of the strain, and the medium being uniaxal, if the strain he symmetrical. John Kerr also found that a dielectric under electric stress behaves as an uuiaxal crystal with its optic axis parallel to the electric force, glass acting as a negative and bisulphide of carbon as a positive crystal (Phil. Mag., 1875 (4), L. 337)*
Not content with determining the laws of double refraction, Fresnel also attempted to give their mechanical explanation. He supposed that the aether consists of a system of distinct material points symmetrically arranged and acting on one another by forces that depend for a given pair only on their distance. If in such a system a single molecule he displaced, the projection of the force of restitution on the direction of displacement is proportional to the inverse square of the parallel radius-vector of an ellipsoid; and of all displacements that can occur in a given plane, only those in the direction of the axes of the parallel central section of the quadric develop forces whose projection on the plane is "along the displacement. In undulations, however, we are concerned with the elastic forces due to relative displacements, and, accordingly, Fresnel assumed that the forces called into play during the propagation of a system of plane waves (of rectilinear transverse vibrations) differ from those developed by the parallel displacement of a single molecule only by a constant factor, independent of the plane of the wave. Next, regarding the aether as incompressible, he assumed that the . components of the elastic forces parallel to the wave-front are alone operative, and finally, on the analogy of a stretched string, that the propagational speed of a plane wave of permanent type is proportional to the square root of the effective force developed by the vibrations. With these hypotheses we immediately obtain the laws of double refraction, as given by the ellipsoid of polarization, with the result that the vibrations are perpendicular to the plane of polarization.
In its dynamical foundations Fresnel’s theory, though of considerable historical interest, is clearly defective in rigour, and a strict treatment of the aether as a crystalline elastic solid does not lead naturally to Fresnel’s laws of double refraction. On the other hand, Lord Kelvin’s rotational aether (Math, and Phys. Papers, iii. 442)—a medium that has no true rigidity but possesses a quasi-rigidity due to elastic resistance to absolute rotation—gives these laws at once, if we abolish the resistance to compression and, regarding it as gyrostatically isotropic, attribute to it aeolotropic inertia. The equations then ohtained are the same as those deduced in the electro-magnetic theory from . the circuital laws of A. M. Ampere and Michael Faraday, when the specific inductive capacity is supposed aeolotropic. In order to account for dispersion, it is necessary to take into account the interaction with the radiation of tne intra-molecular vibrations of the crystalline substance: thus the total current on the electro-magnetic theory must be regarded as made up of the current of displacement and that due to the oscillations of the electrons within the molecules of the crystal.
Bibliography.—An interesting and instructive account of Fresnel’s work on double refraction has been given by Emile Verdet in his introduction to Fresnel’s works: CEuvres d'Augustin Fresnel, i. 75 (Paris, 1866); CEuvres de £. Verdet, i. 360 (Paris, 1872). For an account of theories of double refraction see the reports of H. Lloyd, Sir G. G. Stokes and R. T. Glazebrook in the Brit. ^455. Reports for 1834, 1862 and 1885, and Lord Kelvin’s Baltimore Lectures (1904). An exposition of the rotational theory of the aether has been given by H, Chipart, Theorie gyrostatique de la lumifoe (Paris, 1904); and P. Drude’s Lehrbuch der Optik, 2te Auf. (1906), the first German edition of which was translated by C. Riborg Mann and R. A. Milliken in 1902, treats the subject from the standpoint of the electro-magnetic theory.^ The methods of determining the optical constants of crystals will be found in Th. Liebisch’s Physikalische Krystallographie (1891): F. Pockcl’s Lehrbuch der Kristalloptik (1906); and J. Walker’s Analytical Theory of Light (1904). A detailed list of papers on the geometry of the wave-surface has been published by E. Wollfing, Bibl. Math., 1902 (3), iii. 361; and a general account of the subject will be found in the following treatises: L. Fletcher, The Optical Indicatrix (1892): Th. Preston, The Theory of Light, 3rd ed. by C. J. Joly (1901): A. Schuster, An Introduction to the Theory of
Optics (1904); R. W. Wood, Physical Optics (1005); E. Mascart, TraitS d'optique (1889); A. Winkelmann, Ilandbucn der Physik.
•    (J· Wal.*)
III. Astronomical Refraction
The refraction of a ray of light by the atmosphere as it passes from a heavenly body to an observer on the earth’s surface, is called “astronomical.” A knowledge of its amount is a necessary datum in the exact determination of the direction of the body. In its investigation the fundamental hypothesis is that the strata of the air are in equilibrium, which implies that the surfaces of equal density are horizontal. But this condition is being continually disturbed by aerial currents, which produce continual slight fluctuations in the actual refraction, and commonly give to the image of a star a tremulous motion. Except for this slight motion the refraction is always in the vertical direction; that is, the actual zenith distance of the star is always greater than its apparent distance. The refracting power of the air is nearly proportional to its density. Consequently the amount of the refraction varies with the temperature and barometric pressure, being greater the higher the barometer and the lower the temperature.
At moderate zenith distances, the amount of the refraction varies nearly as the tangent of the zenith distance. Under ordinary conditions of pressure and temperature it is, near the zenith, about 1w for each degree of zenith distance. As the tangent increases at a greater rate than the angle, the increase of the refraction soon exceeds τ* for each degree. At 450 from the zenith the tangent is 1 and the mean refraction is about 58*. As the horizon is approached the tangent increases more and more rapidly, hecoming infinite at the horizon; but the refraction now increases at a less rate, and, when the ohserved ray is horizontal, or when the object appears on the horizon, the refraction is about 34', or a little greater than the diameter of the sun or moon. It follows that when either of these objects is seen on the horizon their actual direction is entirely below it. One result is that the length of the day is increased by refraction to the extent of about five minutes in low latitudes, and still more in higher latitudes. At 6o° the increase is about nine minutes.
The atmosphere, like every other transparent substance, refracts the blue rays of the spectrum more than the red; consequently, when the image of a star near the horizon is observed with a telescope, it presents somewhat the appearance of a spectrum. The edge which is really highest, but seems lowest in’the telescope, is hlue, and the opposite one red. When the atmosphere is steady this atmospheric spectrum is very marked and renders an exact observation of the star difficult.
Bibliography.—Refraction has been a favourite subject of research. See Dr. C. Bruhns, Die astronomische Strahlenbrechung (Leipzig, 1861), gives a rSsumi of the various formulae of refraction which had been developed by the leading investigators up to the date 1861. Since then developments of the theory are found in: W. Chauvenet, Spherical and Practical Astronomy, 1.; F. Briinnow, Spharischen Astronomic; S. Newcomb, Spherical Astronomy; R. Radau, “Recherches sur la th6orie des refractions astronomiques” (Annates de Vobservatoire de Paris, xvi., 1882), “ Essai sur les refractions astronomiques ” (ibid., xix., i88q).
Among the tables of refraction which have been most used are Bessel’s, derived from the observations of Bradley in Bessel’s Fundamenta Astronomiae; and Bessel’s revised tables in his Tabulae Regiomontanae, in which, however, the constant is too large, but which in an expanded form were mostly used at the observatories until 1870. The constant use of the Poulkova tables, Tabulae re-fractionum, which is reduced to nearly its true value, has gradually replaced that of Bessel. Later tables are those of L. de Ball, published at Leipzig in 1906.    (S. N.)
REFRESHER, in English legal phraseology, a further or additional fee paid to counsel where a case is adjourned from one term or sittings to another, or where it extends over more than one day and occupies, either on the first day or partly on the first and partly on a subsequent day or days, more than five hours without being concluded. The refresher allowed for every clear day subsequent to that on which the five hours have expired is five to ten guineas for a leading counsel and from three to seven guineas for other counsel, but the taxing
master is at liberty to allow larger fees in special circumstances. See Rules of the Supreme Court} 0. 65, r. 48.
REFRIGERATING and ICE-MAKING. “ Refrigeration ” (from Lat. frigus, frost) is the cooling of a body by the transfer of a portion of its heat to another and therefore a cooler body. For ordinary temperatures it is performed directly with water as the cooling agent, especially when well water, which usually has a temperature of from 520 to 550 F., can be obtained. There are, however, an increasingly large number of cases in which temperatures below that of any available natural cooling agent are required, and in these it is necessary to resort to machines which are capable of producing the required cooling effect by taking in heat at low temperatures and rejecting it at temperatures somewhat above that of the natural cooling agent, which for obvious reasons is generally water. The function of a refrigerating machine, therefore, is to take in heat at a low temperature and reject it at a higher one.
This involves the expenditure of a quantity of work W, the amount in any particular case being found by the equation W = Q2 —Qi,where W is the work, expressed by its equivalent in British thermal units; Q2 the quantity of heat, also in B.Thcr.U., given out at the higher temperature T2 ; and Qi the heat taken in at the lower temperature Ti. It is evident that the discharged heat Q2 is equal to the abstracted heat Qi, plus the work expended, seeing that the work W, which causes the rise in temperature from Ti to T2) is the thermal equivalent of the energy actually expended in raising the temperature to the level at which it is rejected. The relation then between the work expended and the actual cooling work performed denotes the efficiency of the process, and this is expressed by Q1KQ2—(¿1); but as in a perfect refrigerating^ machine it is understood that the whole of the heat Qi is taken in at the absolute temperature Ti, and the whole of the heat Q2 , is rejected at the absolute temperature T2 , the heat quantities are proportional to the temperatures, and the expression Ti/(T2 —Ti) gives the ideal coefficient of performance for any stated temperature range, whatever working substance is used. These coefficients for a number of cases met with in practice are given in the following table. They
show that in all cases the heat abstracted exceeds by many times the heat expended. As an instance, when heat is taken in at o° and rejected at 70°, a perfect refrigerating machine would abstract 6*6 times as much heat as the equivalent of the energy to be applied. If, however, the heat is to be rejected at ioo°, then the coefficient is reduced to 4*6.
By examining Table I. it will be seen how important it is to reduce the temperature range as much as possible, in order to obtain the most economical results. No actual refrigerating machine does, in fact, take in heat at the exact temperature of the body to be cooled, and reject it at the exact temperature of the cooling water, but, for economy in working, it is of great importance that the differences should be as small as possible.
There are two distinct classes of machines used for refrigerating and ice-making. In the first refrigeration is produced by the expansion of atmospheric air, and in the second by the evaporation of a more or less volatile liquid.
Compressed-air Machines.—A compressed-air refrigerating machine consists in its simplest form of three essential parts —a compressor, a compressed-air cooler, and an expansion cylinder. It is shown diagrammatically in fig. 1 in connexion with a chamber which it is keeping cool. The edmpressor draws in air from the room and compresses it, the work expended in compression being almost entirely converted into heat. The compressed air, leaving the compressor at the temperature T2 , passes through the cooler, where it is cooled by means of water, and is then admitted to the expansion cylinder, where it is
expanded to atmospheric pressure, performing work on the piston. The heat equivalent of the mechanical work performed on the piston is abstracted from the air, which is discharged at the temperature Ti. This temperature Ti is neces-
sarily very much below the temperature to be maintained in the room, because the cooling effect is produced by transferring heat from the room or its contents to the air, which is thereby heated. The rise in temperature of the air is, in fact, the measure of the cooling effect produced. If such a machine could be constructed with reasonable mechanical efficiency a to compress the air to a temperature but slightly above that of the cooling water, and to expand the air to a temperature but slightly below that required to be maintained in the room, we should of course get a result approximating in efficiency somewhat nearly to the figures given in Table L Unfortunately, however, such results cannot be obtained in practice, because the extreme lightness of the air and its very small heat capacity (which at constant pressure is *2379) would necessitate .the employment of a great volume, with extremely large and mechanically inefficient cylinders and apparatus. A pound of air, representing about 12 cub. ft., if raised io° F. will only take up about 2-4 B.T.U. Consequently, to make such a machine mechanically successful a comparatively small weight of air must be used, and the temperature difference increased; in other words, the air must be discharged at a temperature very much below that to be maintained in the room.
This theory of working is founded on the Carnot cycle for a perfect heat motor, a perfect refrigerating machine being simply a reversed heat motor. Another theory involves the use of the Stirling regenerator, which was proposed in connexion with the Stirling heat engine (see Air Engines). The air machine invented by Dr. A. Kirk in 1862, and described by him in a paper on the 11 Mechanical Production of Cold ” (Proc. Inst. C.E., xxxvii., 1874, 244), is simply a reversed Stirling air engine, the air working in a closed cycle instead of being actually discharged into the room to be cooled, as is the usual practice with ordinary compressed-air machines. Kirk's machine was used commercially with success on a fairly large scale, chiefly for ice-making, and it is recorded that it produced about 4 lb of ice for I lb of coal. In 1868 J. Davy Postle read a paper before the Royal Society of Victoria, suggesting the conveyance of meat on board ship in a frozen state by means of refrigerated air, and in 1869 he showed by experiment how it could be done; but his apparatus was not commercially developed. In 1877 a compressed-air machine was designed by J. J. Coleman of Glasgow, and in the early part of 1879 one of his machines was fitted on board the Anchor liner 11 Circassia,M which successfully brought a cargo of chilled beef from America—the first imported by the aid of refrigerating machinery, ice. having been previously used. The first successful cargo of frozen mutton from Australia was also brought by a Bell-Coleman machine in 1879. In the Bell-Coleman machine the air was cooled during^ compression by means of an injection of water, and further by being brought into contact with a shower of water. Another, perhaps the principal·, feature was the intcrchanger, an apparatus whereby the compressed air was further cooled before expansion by means of the comparatively cold air from the room in its passage to the compressor, the same air being used over and over again. The object of this interchanger was not only to cool the compressed air before expansion, but to condense part of the moisture in it, so reducing the quantity of ice or snow produced during expansion. A full description of the machine may be found in a paper on “ Air-Refrigerating Machinery ” by J. J. Coleman (Proc. Inst. C.E. lxviii., 1882). At the present time the Bell-Coleman machine has practically ceased to exist. In such compressed-air machines
as are now made there is no injection of water during compression, and the compressed air is cooled in a surface cooler, not by actual mixture with a shower of cold water. Further, though the interchanger is still used by some makers, it has been found by experience that, with properly constructed valves and passages in the expansion cylinder, tnere is no trouble from the formation of snow, when, as is the general practice, the same air is used over and over again, the compressor taking its supply from the insulated room. So far as the air discharged from the expansion cylinder is concerned, its humidity is precisely the same so long as its temperature and pressure are the same, inasmuch as when discharged from the expansion cylinder it is always in a saturated condition for that temperature and pressure.
The ideal coefficient of performance is about i, but the actual coefficient will be about f, after allowing for the losses incidental to working. In practice the air is compressed to about 50 lb per square inch above the atmosphere, its temperature rising to about 300° F. The compressed air then passes through coolers in which it is cooled to within about 50 of the initial temperature of the cooling water, and is deprived of a portion of its moisture, after which it is admitted into the expansion cylinder and expanded nearly to atmospheric pressure. The thermal equivalent of the power exerted on the piston is taken from the *air, which, with cooling water at 6o° F. and after allowing for friction and other losses, is discharged at a temperature of 6o° to 8o° below zero F. according to the size of the machine. The pistons of the compression and expansion cylinders are connected to the same crankshaft, and the difference between the power expended in compression and that restored in expansion, plus the friction of the machine, is supplied by means of a steam engine coupled to the crankshaft, or by any other source of power. For marine purposes two complete machines are frequently mounted on one bed-plate and worked either together or separately.
In some machines used in the United States the cold air is not discharged into the rooms but is worked in a closed cycle, the rooms being cooled by means of overhead pipes through which the cold expanded air passes on its way back to the compressor.
Liquid Machines.—Machines of the second class may conveniently be divided into three types: (a) Those in which there is no recovery of the refrigerating agent, water being the agent employed; they will be dealt with as “Vacuum machines.”
(b)    Those in which the agent is recovered by means of mechanical compression; they are termed “ Compression machines.”
(c)    Those in which the agent is recovered by means of absorption by a liquid; they are known as “ Absorption machines.”
In the first class, since the refrigerating liquid is itself rejected, the only agent cheap enough to be employed is water. The Vacuum boiling point of water varies with pressure; thus at machines. one atmosphere or 14*7 lb per square inch it is 2120 F., whereas at a pressure of *085 lb per square inch it is 320 , and at lower pressures there is a still further fall in temperature. This property is made use of in vacuum machines. Water at ordinary temperature, say 6o°, is placed in an air-tight glass or insulated vessel, and when the pressure is reduced by means of a vacuum pump it begins to boil, the heat necessary for evaporation being taken from the water itself. The pressure being still further reduced, the temperature is gradually lowered until the freezing-point is reached and ice formed, when about one-sixth of the original volume has been evaporated.
The earliest machine of this kind appears to have been made in 1755 by Dr. William Cullen, who produced the vacuum by means of a pump alone. In 1810 Sir John Leslie combined with the air pump a vessel containing strong sulphuric acid for absorbing the vapour from the air, and is said to have succeeded in producing i to i \ lb of ice in a single operation. E. C. Carre later adopted the same principle. In 1878 F. Windhausen patented a vacuum machine for producing ice in large quantities, and in 1881 one of these machines, said to be capable of making about 12 tons of ice per day, was put to work in London. The installation was fully described by Carl Pieper {Trans. Soc. of Engineers, 1882, p. 145) and by Dr. John Hopkinson {Journal of Soc. of Arts, 1882, vol. xxxi. p. 20). The process, however, not being successful from a commercial point of view, was abandoned. At the present time vacuum machines are only employed for domestic purooses. The hand apparatus invented by H. A. Fleuss consists of a vacuum
pump capable of reducing the air pressure to a fraction of a millimetre, the suction pipe of which is connected first with a vessel containing sulphuric acid, and second with the vessel containing the water to be frozen. Both these vessels are mounted on a rocking base, so that the acid can be thoroughly agitated while the machine is being worked. As soon as the pump has sufficiently exhausted the air from the vessel containing the water,* vapour is rapidly given off and is absorbed by the acid until sufficient heat has been abstracted to bring about the desired reduction in temperature, the acid becoming heated by the absorption of water vapour, while the water freezes. The small Fleuss machine will produce about il lb of ice in one operation of 20 minutes. Iced water in a carafe for drinking purposes can be produced in about three minutes. The acid vessel holds 9 lb of acid, and nearly 3 lb of ice can be made for each 1 lb of acid before the acid has become too weak to do further duty. Another machine, which can be easily worked by a boy, will produce 20 to 30 lb of ice in one hour, and is perhaps the largest size practicable with this method of freezing. The temperature attainable depends on the strength and condition of the sulphuric acid; ordinarily it can be reduced to zero F., and temperatures 20° lower have frequently been obtained.
Though prior to 1834 several suggestions had been made with regard to the production of ice and the cooling of liquids by the evaporation of a more volatile liquid than water, the first machine actually constructed and put to work was made by John Hague in that year from the designs of Jacob Perkins {Journal of Soc. of Arts, 1882, vol. xxxi. p. 77). This machine, though never used commercially, is the parent of all modern compression machines. Perkins in his patent specification states that the volatile fluid is by preference ether. In 1856 and 1857 James Harrison of Geelong, Victoria, patented a machine embodying the same principle as that of Perkins, but worked out in a much more complete and practical manner. It is stated that these machines were first made in New South Wales in 1859, but the first Harrison machine adopted successfully for industrial purposes in England was applied in the year 1861 for cooling oil in order to extract the paraffin. In Harrison’s machine the agent used was ether (CiHsLO. Improvements were made by Siebe & Company of London, and a considerable number of ether machines both for ice-making and refrigerating purposes were supplied by that firm and others up to the year 1880. In 1870 the subject of refrigeration was investigated by Professor Carl Linde of Munich, who was the first to consider the question from a thermodynamic point of view. He dealt with the coefficient of performance as a common basis of comparison for all machines, and showed that the compression vapour machine more nearly reached the theoretic maximum than any other {Bayerisches Industrie und Gewerbeblatt, 1870 and 1871). Linde also examined the physical properties of various liquids, and, after making trials with methylic ether in 1872, built his first ammonia compression machine in 1873. Since then the ammonia compression machine has been most widely adopted, though the carbonic acid machine, also compression, which was first made in 1880 from Linde’s designs, is now used to a considerable extent, especially on board ship.
A diagram of a vapour compression machine is shown in fig. 2. There are three principal parts, a refrigerator or evaporator, a compression pump, and a condenser. The refrigerator, which
consists of a coil or series of coils, is connected to the suction side of the pump, and the delivery from the pump is connected to the condenser, which is generally of somewhat similar construction to the refrigerator. The condenser and refrigerator are connected by a pipe in which is a valve named the regulator. Outside the refrigerator coils is the air, brine or other substance to be cooled, and outside the condenser is the cooling medium, which, as previously stated, is generally water. The refrigerating liauid (ether, sulphur dioxide, anhydrous ammonia, or carbonic acid) passes from the bottom of the condenser through the regulating valve into the refrigerator in a continuous stream. The pressure in the refrigerator being reduced by the pump and maintained at such a degree as to give the required boiling-point, which is of course always lower than the temperature outside the coils, heat passes from the substance outside, through the coil surfaces, and is taken up by the entering liquid, which is converted into vapour at the temperature Ti. The vapours thus generated are drawn into the pump, compressed, and discharged into the condenser at the temperature T2 , which is somewhat above that of the cooling water. Heat is transferred from the compressed vapour to the cooling water and the vapour is converted into a liquid, which collects at the bottom and returns by the regulating valve into the refrigerator. As heat is both taken in and discharged at constant temperature during the change in physical state of the agent, a vapour compression machine must approach the ideal much more nearly than a compressed-air machine, in which there is no such change.
This will be seen by taking as an example a case in which the cold room is to be kept at io° F., the cooling water being at 6o°. Under these conditions, the actual evaporating temperature Ti, in a well-constructed ammonia compression machine, after allowing for the differences necessary for the exchange of heat, would be about 5° below zero, and the discharge temperature T would be about 75°. An ideal machine, working between 50 below zero and 750 above, has a coefficient of about 5*7, or nearly six times that of an ideal compressed-air machine of usual construction performing the same useful cooling work.
A vapour compression machine does not, however, work precisely in the reversed Carnot cycle, inasmuch as the fall in temperature between the condenser and the refrigerator is not produced, nor is it attempted to be produced, by the adiabatic expansion of the agent, but results from the evaporation of apportion of the liquid itself. In other words, the liquid-refrigerating agent enters the refrigerator at the condenser temperature and ^ introduces heat which has to be taken up by the evaporating liquid before any useful refrigerating effect can be performed. The extent of this loss is determined by the relation between the liquid heat and the latent heat of vaporization at the refrigerator temperature. If r represents the latent heat of the vapour, and g2 and q\ the amounts of heat contained in the liquid at the respective temperatures of T2 and Ti, then the loss from the heat carried from the condenser into the refrigerator is shown by (52-51)/*' and the useful refrigerating effect produced in the refrigerator is r —(g2 —gO· Assuming, as in the previous example, that T2 1S750 F., and that Ti is 50 below zero, the results for various refrigerating agents are as follows:—
The results show that the loss is least in the case of anhydrous ammonia and greatest in the case of carbonic acid. At higher condenser temperatures the results are even much more favourable to ammonia. As the critical temperature (88*4° F.) of carbonic acid is approached, the value of r becomes less and less and the refrigerating effect is much reduced. When the critical point is reached the value of r disappears altogether, and a carbonic-acid machine is then dependent for its refrigerating effect on the reduction in temperature produced by the internal work performed in expanding the gaseous carbonic acid from the condenser pressure to that in the refrigerator. The abstraction of heat does not then take place at constant temperature. The expanded vapour enters the refrigerator at a temperature below that of the substance to be cooled, and whatever cooling effect is produced is brought about by the superheating of the vapour, the result being that above the critical point of carbonic acid the difference T2 —T2 is increased and the efficiency of the machine is reduced. The critical temperature of anhydrous ammonia is about 266° F., which is never approached in the ordinary working of refrigerating machines. Some of the principal physical properties of sulphurous acid, anhydrous ammonia, and carbonic acid are given in Tables III., IV. and V.
The action of a vapour compression machine is shown in fig. 3. Liquid at the condenser temperature being introduced into the refrigerator through the regulating valve, a small portion evaporates and reduces the remaining liquid to the temperature Tj. This is shown by the curve AB, and is the useless work represented by the expression (<72—Qi)/r. ^Evaporation then continues at the constant temperature T, abstracting heat from the substance outside the -refrigerator as shoyn by the line BC. The vapour is then compressed along the line CD to the temperature T2 , when, by the action of the cooling water in the condenser, heat is abstracted at constant temperature and the vapour condensed along the line DA.
In a compression machine the refrigerator is usually a series of iron or steel coils surrounded by the air, brine or other substance it
is desired to cool. One end (generally the bottom) of the coils is connected to the liquid pipe from the condenser and the other end
to the suction of the compressor. Liquid from the condenser is admitted to the coils through an adjustable regulating valve, and by taking heat from the substance outside is evaporated, the vapour being continually drawn off by the compressor and discharged under increased pressure into the condenser. The condenser is constructed of coils like the refrigerator, the cooling water being contained in a tank; frequently, however, a scries of open coils is employed, the cooling water falling over the coils into a collecting tray below, and this form is perhaps the most convenient for ordinary use as it affords great facilities for inspection and painting. The compressor may be driven by a steam engine or in any other convenient manner. The pressure in the condenser varies according to the temperature of the cooling water, and that in the refrigerator is dependent upon the temperature to which the outside substance is copied. In an ammonia machine copper and copper alloys must be avoided, but for carbonic acid they are not objectionable.
The compression of ammonia is sometimes carried out on what is known as the Linde or “ wet ” system, and sometimes on the “ dry ” system. When wet compression is used the^ regulating valve is opened to such an extent that a little more liquid is passed than can be evaporated in the refrigerator. This liquid enters the compressor with the vapour, and is evaporated there, the heat taken up preventing the rise in temperature during compression which would otherwise take place. The compressed vapour is discharged at a temperature but little above that of the cooling water. With dry compression, vapour alone is drawn into the compressor, and the temperature rises to as much as 180 or 200 degrees. Wet compression theoretically is not quite so efficient as dry compression, but it possesses practical advantages in keeping the working parts of the compressor cool, and it also greatly facilitates the regulation of the liquid, and ensures the full duty of the machine being continuously performed. Very exact comparative trials have been made by Professor M. Schrocter and others with compression machines using sulphur dioxide and ammonia. The results are published in Vergleichende Versuche an Kaltemaschinen, by Schrocter, Munich, 1890, and in Nos. 32 and 51 of Bayerisches Industrie und Gewerbeblattt  1892. Some of the results obtained by Schroeter in 1893 with an ordinary brine cooling machine on the Linde ammonia system are given in Table VI.:—
The principle of the absorption process is chemical or physical rather than mechanical; it depends on the fact that many vapours of low boiling-point are readily absorbed in water, and can be separated again by the application of heat. In its simplest form an absorption machine consists of two iron vessels connected together by a bent pipe. One of these contains a mixture of ammonia and water, which on the application of heat gives off a mixed vapour containing a large proportion of ammonia, a liquid containing but little ammonia being left behind. In the second vessel, which is placed in cold water, the vapour rich in ammonia is condensed under pressure. To produce refrigeration the operation is reversed. On allowing the weak liquor to cool to normal temperature, it becomes greedy of ammonia (at 6o° F. at atmospheric pressure water will absorb about 760 times its own volume of ammonia vapour), and this produces an evaporation from the liquid in the vessel previously used as a condenser. This liquid, containing a large proportion of ammonia, gives off vapour at a low temperature, and therefore becomes a refrigerator abstracting heat from water or any surrounding body. When the ammonia is evaporated the operation as described must be again commenced. Such an apparatus is not much used now. Larger and more elaborate machines were made by F. P. E. Carre in France; but no very high degree of perfection was arrived at, owing to the impossibility of getting an anhydrous product of distillation. In 1867 Rees Reece, taking advantage of the fact that two vapours of different boiling-points, when mixed, can be separated by means of fractional condensation, brought out an absorption machine in which the distillate was very nearly anhydrous. By means of vessels termed the analyser and the rectifier, the bulk of the water was condensed at a comparatively high temperature and run back to the generator, while the ammonia passed into a condenser, and there assumed the liquid form under the pressure produced by the heat in the generator and the cooling action of water circulating outside the condenser tubes.
Fig. 4 is a diagram of an absorption apparatus. The ammonia vapour given off in the refrigerator is absorbed by a cold weak solution of ammonia and water in the absorber, and the strong liquor is pumped back into the generator through an intcrchanger through which also the weak hot liquor from the generator passes on its way to the absorber. In this way the strong liquor is heated before it enters the generator, and the weak liquor is cooled before it enters the absorber.
The generator being heated by means of a steam coil, ammonia vapour is driven off at such a pressure as to cause its condensation in the condenser. From the condenser it passes into the refrigerator through a regulating valve in the usual manner. The process is continuous, and is identical with that of the compression machine, with the exception of the return from the temperature Tj to the temperature T2, which is brought about by the direct application of heat instead of by means of mechanical compression. With the same temperature range, however, the same amount of heat has to be acquired in both cases, though from the nature of the process theactual amount of heat demanded from the steam is much greater in the absorption system than in the compression. This is chiefly due to the fact that in the former the neat of vaporization acquired in the refrigerator is rejected in the absorber, so that the whole heat of vaporization has to be supplied again by the steam in the generator. In the latter the vapour passes direct from the refrigerator to the pump* and power has to be expended merely in raising the temperature to a sufficient degree to enable condensation to occur at the temperature of the cooling water. On the other hand, a great advantage is gained in the absorption machine^ by using the direct heat of the steam, without first converting it into mechanical work, for in this way its latent heat of ^ vaporization pan be utilized by condensing the steam in the coils and letting it escape in the form of water. Each pound of steam can thus be made to give up some 950 units of heat; while in a good steam engine only about 200 units are utilized in the steam cylinder per pound of steam, and in addition allowance has to be made for mechanical inefficiency. In the absorption machine the cooling water has to take up about twice as much heat as in the compression system, owing to the ammonia being twice liquefied—namely, once in the absorber and once in the condenser. It is usual to pass the cooling water first through the condenser and then through the absorber.
e The absorption machine^ is not so economical as the compression; but an actual comparison between the two systems is difficult to make. Information on this head is given in papers read by Dr. Linde and by Professor J. A. Ewing before tne Society of Arts (Journal of the Society of Arts, vol. xlii., 1894, p. 322, and Howard Lectures, January, February and March 1897).
An absorption apparatus as applied to the cooling of liquids consists of a generator containing coils to which steam is supplied at suitable pressure, an analyser, a rectifier, a condenser either of the submerged or open type, a refrigerator in which the nearly anhydrous ammonia obtained in the condenser is allowed to evaporate, an absorber through which the weak liquor from the generator continually flows and absorbs the anhydrous vapour produced in the refrigerator, and a pump for forcing the strong liquor produced in the absorber back through an economizer into the analyser where, meeting with steam from the generator, the ammonia gas is again driven off, the process being tjnus carried on continuously. Sometimes an additional vessel is employed for heating liquor by means of the exhaust steam from the engine driving the ammonia pump.t Absorption machines are also made without a pump for returning the strong liquor to the generator. In these cases they work intermittently. In some machines the same vessel is used alternately as a generator and absorber, while in others, in order
to minimize the loss of time, two vessels arc provided which can be used alternately as generators and absorbers.
Applications.—Apart from the economical working of the machine itself, whatever system may be adopted, it is of importance that cold once produced should not be wasted, and it is therefore necessary to use some form of insulation to protect the vessels in which liquids are being cooled, or the rooms of ships’ holds in which the freezing or storage processes are being carried on. This insulation generally consists of materials such as charcoal, silicate cotton, granulated cork, small pumice, hair-felt, sawdust, &c., held between layers of wood or brick, and forming a more or less heat-tight box. There is no recognized standard of insulation. For a cold store to be erected inside a brick or stone building, and to be maintained at an internal temperature of from i8° to,20° F., a usual plan is shown in fig. 5. The same insulation is used for the floors and ceilings, except that the wearing surface of the floor is generally made thicker than the inside lining of the sides. Should the walls or floor be damp, waterproof paper is added. Granulated cork has practically the same insulating properties as silicate cotton, and the same thicknesses may be used. About 10 in. of flake charcoal and vegetable silica, or 11 of small pumice, are required to give the same protection as 7 in. of good silicate cotton. Cork bricks made of compressed granulated cork are frequently used, a thickness of about 5 in. giving the same protection as 7 in. of silicate cotton. The walls and ceilings are finished off with a smooth coating of hard cement and the floors are protected by cement or asphalt, according to the nature of the traffic on them. For lager-beer cellars and fermenting rooms, for bacon-curing cellars, and for similar purposes, brick walls with single or double air spaces are used, and sometimes a space filled with silicate cotton or other insulating material. In Australia and New Zealand pumice, which is found in enormous quantities in the latter country, takes the place of charcoal and silicate cotton. In Canada air spaces are largely used either alone or in combination with silicate cotton or planer shavings. The air spaces, two or three in number, are formed between two layers of tongued and grooved wood, and the total thickness of the insulation is about the same as when silicate cotton alone is used. On board ship charcoal has been almost entirely employed, but silicate cotton and granulated cork are sometimes used. The material is either placed directly up to the skin of the vessel, and kept in place by a double lining of wood inside, in which case a thickness of about 10 in. is used depending upon the depth of the frames, or it is placed between two layers of wood, with an air space next the skin, in which case about 6 in. of flake charcoal is generally sufficient for the insulation of the holds, though for deck-houses and other parts exposed to the sun the thickness must be greater. A layer of sheet zinc or tin has frequently to be used as protection from rats. Given a certain allowable heat transmission, the principal points to be considered in connexion with insulation are, first cost, durability, weight and space occupied, the two last named being specially important factors on board ship. No exact rules can be laid down, as the conditions vary so greatly; and though experiments have been made to determine the actual heat conduction of various materials per unit of surface, thickness and temperature difference, the experience of actual practice is at prfesent the only accepted guide.
With compressed-air machines which discharge the cold air direct into the insulated room or hold, a snow box is provided close to the outlet of the expansion cylinder to catch the snow and congealed oil. The air is distributed by means of wood air trunks with openings controlled bv slides, and similar trunks are provided in connexion with the suction of the comprcsser to conduct the air back to the machine. With liquid machines of the compression and absorption system, the rooms are either cooled by means of cold pipes or surfaces placed in them, or by a circulation of air cooled in an apparatus separated from the rooms. The cold pipes may be direct-expansion pipes in which the liquid evaporates, or they may be pipes or walls through which circulates an un-congcalable brine previously cooled to the desired temperature. The pipes are placed on the ceilings or sides according to circumstances, but they*must be arranged so as to induce a circulation of air throughout the compartment and ensure every part being cooled. With what is termed the air circulation system the air is generally circulated by means of a fan, being drawn from the rooms through ducts, passed over a cooler, and returned again to the rooms by other ducts. In some coolers the cooling surfaces consist of direct-expansion pipes placed in clusters of convenient form; in others brine pipes are used; mothers there is a shower of cold brine, and in some cases combinations of cold pipes and brine showers. Whether pipes in the rooms or air circulation give the best results is to some extent a matter of opinion, but at the present time the tendencyris decidedly in favour of air circulation, at any rate for general cold storage purposes. Whichever system be adopted, it is important for economical reasons that ample cooling surface be allowed, and that all surfaces be kept clean and active, to make the difference between the temperature of the evaporating liquid and the rooms as small as possible. Small surfaces reduce first cost, but involve higher working expenses by decreasing the value of Ti/(T2 —Ti), and thus demanding more energy, and consequently more fuel, to effect the given result than if larger surfaces were employed.
The general arrangement of an ice factory for producing can ice is shown in fig. 6. The water to be frozen is contained in galvanized or terned steel moulds suspended in a tank filled to the proper level with brine maintained at the desired temperature. The moulds are frequently arranged in frames, so that by means of an overhead crane one complete row is lifted at a time. When the water is frozen the moulds are dipped in a tank containing warm water, and on being tipped the blocks of ice fall out. Ordinary water contains air, and ice made from it is generally opaque, due to the inclusion of numerous small air-bubbles. To produce clear ice the water must be agitated during the freezing^ process, or previously boiled to get rid of the air. Distilled water is frequently used, as well as'the water produced by the condensation of the steam from the engine, which of course must be thoroughly purified and filtered. It should be noted, however, that with an icemaking plant of moderate size and a steam-engine of good ?0 £* struction the weight of steam used will not nearly equal the weight of iee produced, so that the difference must be made up either by distillation, which is a costly process, or by ordinary water. ^an  ice is usually made in blocks weighing 56, 112 of 224 lb, and^ from 4 to 8 in. thick.. For cell icc ordinary water is used, agitated
during freezing. The cells are flat and constructed of galvanized iron, so as to form a hollow space of about 2 in. in width, through which cold brine is circulated by a pump. They are placed vertically in a tank, the distance between them being from 8 to 14 in., according to the thickness of the ice to be produced. The tank is filled with water, which is kept in agitation by means of a reciprocating paddle or piston; in this way the air escapes, and with proper care a block of great transparency is produced. To thaw it off, warm brine is circulated through the cells. A usual size for cell ice is 4 ft. by 3 ft. by 1 ft. mean thickness, the weight being about 6 cwt. If perfectly transparent ice is required, the two sides of the block are not allowed to join up, and it is then called plate ice, which is often made in very large blocks, afterwards divided by saws or steam cutters. In such cases the evaporation of the ammonia or other refrigerating liquid frequently takes place in the cells themselves, brine being dispensed with. With a well-constructed can ice-plant of say 25 tons capacity per day, from 15 to 16 tons of ice should be made in Great Britain to a ton of best steam coal. For cell and plate ice the production is considerably below this, and the first cost of the plant is much greater than that for can ice.
Fig. 7 shows an arrangement of cold storage on land, refrigerated on the air circulation system. The insulated rooms, on two floors, are approached by corridors, so as to exclude external air, which if allowed to enter would deposit moisture upon the cold goods. The air cooler is placed at the end, and the air is distributed by means of wood ducts furnished with slides for regulating the temperature of the rooms, which are insulated according to the method shown in fig. 5. In some cases, instead of the entrance being at the , sides or ends, it is at the top, all goods being raised to the top floor in lifts and lowered by lifts into the rooms. With good machinery the cost of raising is not great, and is probably equalled by the saving in refrigeration, since the looms hold the heavy cold air as a glass holds water.
Large passenger vessels and yachts are now generally fitted with refrigerating machinery for preserving provisions, cooling water and wine, and making ice. Usually two insulated compartments are provided, one for frozen meats at about 20° F., and one for vegetables, &c., at about 40°. They have a capacity of from 1500 to 3000 cub. ft. or more, according to the number of passengers carried, and they are generally cooled by means of brine pipes, though direct expansion and air circulation are sometimes adopted. A passenger vessel requires from 2 to 4 cwt. of ice per day. On battleships and cruisers the British Admiralty use small compressed-air machines for ice-making, and larger machines, generally on the carbonic-acid system, for cooling the magazines. A modern frozen-meat-carrying vessel will accommodate as much as 120,000 carcases, partly sheep and partly lambs, requiring a hold capacity of about 300,000 cub. ft. In some vessels both fore and aft holds and ’tween decks are insulated. Lloyd’s Committee now issue certificates for refrigerating installations, if constructed according to their rules, and most modern cargo-carrying vessels have their refrigerating machinery classed at Lloyd’s. In the meat trade between the River Plate, the United States, Canada and Great Britain, ammonia or carbonic acid machines are now exclusively used, but for the Australian and New Zealand frozen-meat trade compressed-air machines are still employed to a small extent. The holds of meat-carrying vessels are refrigerated either by cold air circulation or by brine pipes.
Though the adoption of refrigerating and ice-making machinery for industrial purposes practically dates from the year 1880, the manufacture of these machines has already assumed very great proportions; indeed, in no branch of mechanical engineering, with the exception of electrical machinery, has there been so remarkable a development in recent years. The sphere of application is extending year by year. The cooling of residential and public buildings in hot countries, though attempted in a few cases in the United States and elsewhere, is yet practically untouched, the manufacture of ice and the preservation of perishable foods (apart from the frozen and chilled meat trades) have in many countries hardly received serious consideration, but in breweries, dairies, margarine works and many other industries there is a large and increasing field for refrigerating and ice-making machinery. A recent application is in the cooling and drying of the air blast for blast furnaces. Though this matter had been discussed for some years, it was only in 1904 that the first plant was put to work at Pittsburg.
For further information reference may be made to the following: Siebel, Compend. of Mechanical Refrigeration (Chicago); Redwood, Theoretical and Practical Ammonia Refrigeration (New York); Stephansky, Practical Running of an Ice and Refrigerating Plant (Boston); Ledoux, Ice-Making Machines (New York); Wallis-Taylor, Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machines (London); Ritchie Leask, Refrigerating Machinery (London); Dc Volson Wood, Thermodynamics, Heat Motors and Refrigerating Machinery (New York); Linde, Kälteerzeugungsmaschine Lexikon der gesamten Technik; Behrend, Eis und Kälteerzeugungs-Maschinen (Halle); De Marchena, Kompressions Kältemaschinen (Halle); Theodore Roller, Die Kälteindustrie (Vienna); Voorhees, Indicating the Refrigerating Machine (Chicago); Norman Selfe, Machinery for Refrigeration (Chicago); Hans Lorenz, Modern Refrigerating Machinery (London); Lehnert, Moderne Kältetechnik (Leipzig); L. Marchis, Production et utilisation du froid (Paris); C. Heinel, Bau und Betrieb von Kältemaschinen Anlagen (Oldenburg); R. Stetefeld, Eis und Kälteerzeugungs-Maschinen (Stuttgart).    (T. B. L.)
REGAL, a small late-medieval portable organ, furnished with beating-reeds and having two bellows like a positive organ; also in Germany the name given to the reed-stops (beating-reeds) of a large organ, and more especially the “ vox humana ” stop. The name was not at first applied to the small tabic instrument, but to certain small brass pipes in the organ, sounded by means of beating-reeds, the longest of the 8-ft. tone being but in. long. Praetorius (1618) mentions a larger regal used in the court orchestras of some of the German princes, more like a positive, containing 4-ft., 8-ft. and even sometimes 16-ft. tone reeds, and having behind the case two bellows. These rcgals were used not only at banquets but often to replace positives in small and large churches. The very small regal, sometimes called Bible-regal, because it can be taken to pieces and folded up like a book, is also mentioned by the same writer, who states that these little instruments, first made in Nuremberg and Augsburg, have an unpleasantly harsh tone, due to their tiny pipes, not quite an inch long. The pipes in this case were not intended to reinforce the vibrations of the beating-reed or of its overtones as in the reed pipes of the organ, but merely to form an attachment for keeping the reed in its place without interfering with its functions. The beating-reed itself in the older organs of the early middle ages, many of which, undoubtedly were reed organs, was made of wood; those of the regal were mostly of brass (hence their “ brazen voices ”). The length of the vibrating portion of the beating-reed governed the pitch of the pipe and was regulated by means of a wire passing through the socket, the other end pressing on the reed at the proper distance. Drawings of the reeds of regals and other reed-pipes, as well as of the instrument itself, are given by Praetorius (pl. iv., xxxviii.).    
There is evidence to show that in England, and France also, the word “regal ” was applied to reed-stops on the organ; Mersenne (1636) states that “ now the word is applied to the vox humana stop on the organ.” In England, as late as the reign of George III., there was the appointment of “ tuner of the regals ” to the Chapel Royal.
The reed-stops required constant tuning, according to Praetorius, who lays special emphasis on the fact that the pitch of the reed-pipes alone falls in summer and rises in winter.
During the 16th and 17th centuries the regal was a very great favourite, and although, owing to the civil wars and the ravages
of time, very few specimens now remain, the régals are often mentioned in old wills and inventories, such as the list of Henry Vlll.’s musical instruments made after his death by Sir Philip Wilder (Brit. Mus. Harleian MS. 1415, fol; 200 seq.), in which no fewer than thirteen pairs of single and five pairs of double régals are mentioned. Monteverde scored for the régals in his operas, and the instrument is described and figured by S. Virdung in 1511» Martin Agricola in 1528, and Ottmar Luscimus in 1536, as well as by Michael Praetorius in 1618.    (K. S.)
REGALIA (Lat. regalis, royal, from rex, king), the ensigns of royalty. The crown (see Crown and Coronet) and sceptre (see Sceptre) are dealt with separately. Other ancient symbols of royal authority are bracelets, the sword, a robe or mantle, and, in Christian times, a ring. Bracelets, as royal emblems, are mentioned in the Bible in connexion with Saul (2 Sam. i. io), and they have been commonly used by Eastern monarchs. In Europe their later use seems to have been fitfully confined to England, although they were a very ancient ornament for kings among the Teutonic races. Two coronation bracelets are mentioned among the articles of the regalia ordered to be destroyed at the time of the Commonwealth, and two new ones were made at the Restoration. These are of gold, i| in. in width, and ornamented with the rose, thistle, harp and fleur-de-lis in enamel round them. They have not been used for modern coronations.
The sword is one of the usual regalia of most countries, and is girded on to the sovereign during the coronation. In England the one sword has been developed into five. The Sword of State is borne before the sovereign on certain state occasions, and at the coronation is exchanged for a smaller sword, with which the king is ceremonially girded. The three other swords of the regalia are the “ Curtana,” the Sword of Justice to the Spirituality, and the Sword of Justice to the Temporality. The Curtana has a blade cut off short and square, indicating thereby the quality of mercy.
The mantle, as a symbol of royalty, is almost universal, but in the middle ages other quasi-priestly robes were added to it (see Coronation). The English mantle was formerly made of silk; latterly cloth of gold has been used. The ring, by which the sovereign is wedded to his kingdom, is not of so wide a range of usage. That of the English kings held a large ruby with a cross engraved on it. Recently a sapphire has been substituted for the ruby. Golden spurs, though included among the regalia, are merely used to touch the king’s feet, and are not worn.
The orb and cross was not anciently placed in the king’s hands during the coronation ceremony, but was carried by him* in the left hand on leaving the church. It is emblematical of monarchical rule, and is only used by a reigning sovereign. The idea is undoubtedly derived from the globe with the figure of Victory with which the Roman emperors are depicted. The larger orb of the English regalia is a magnificent ball of gold, 6 in. in diameter, with a band round the centre edged with gems and pearls. A similar band arches the globe, on the top of which is a remarkably fine amethyst i| in. in height, upon which rests the cross of gold outlined with diamonds. There is a smaller orb made for Mary II., who reigned jointly with King William III.
The English regalia, with one or two exceptions, were made for the coronation of Charles II. by Sir Robert Vyner. The Scottish regalia preserved at Edinburgh comprise the crown, dating, in part, from Robert the Bruce, the sword of state given to James IV. by Pope Julius II., and two sceptres.
Besides regalia proper, certain other articles are sometimes included under the name, such as the ampulla for the holy oil, and the coronation spoon. The ampulla is of solid gold in the form of an eagle with outspread wings. It weighs 10 oz., and holds 6 oz. of oil. The spoon was not originally used for its present purpose. It is of the 12th or 13th century, with a long handle and egg-shaped bowl. Its history is quite unknown.
See Cyril Davenport, The English Regalia, with illustrations in colour of all the regalia; Leopold Wickham Legg, English Coronation Records; The Ancestor, Nos. 1 and 2 (1902); Menin, The Form, &c., of Coronations (translated from French, 1727)·
REGENERATION OF LOST PARTS. A loss and renewal of living material, either continual or periodical, is a familiar occurrence in the tissues of higher animals. The surface of the human skin, the inner lining of the mouth and respiratory organs, the blood corpuscles, the ends of the nails, and many other portions of tissues are continuously being destroyed and replaced. The hair of many mammals, the feathers of birds, the epidermis of reptiles, and the antlers of stags are shed and replaced periodically. In these normal cases the regeneration depends on the existence of special formative layers or groups of cells, and must be regarded in each case as a special adaptation, with individual limitations and peculiarities, rather than as a mere exhibition of the fundamental power of growth and reproduction displayed by living substance. Many tissues, even in the highest animals, are capable of replacing an abnormal loss of substance. Thus in mammals, portions of muscular tissue, of epithelium, of bone, and of nerve, after accidental destruction or removal, may be renewed. The characteristic feature of such cases appears to be, in the higher animals at any rate, that lost cells are replaced only from cells of the same morphological order—epiblastic cells from the epiblast, mesoblastic from the mesoblast, and so forth. It is also becoming clear that, at least in the higher animals, regeneration is in intimate relation with the central nervous system. The process is in direct relation to the general power of growth and reproduction possessed by protoplasm, and is regarded by pathologists as the consequence of “ removal of resistances to growth.” It is much less common in the tissues of higher plants, in which the adult cells have usually lost the powr er of reproduction, and in which the regeneration of lost parts is replaced by a very extended capacity for budding. Still, more complicated reproductions of lost parts occur in many cases, and are more difficult to understand.
In Amphibia the entire epidermis, together with the slime-glands and the integumentary' sense-organs, is regenerated by the epidermic cells in the vicinity of the defect. The whole limb of a Salamander or a Triton will grow' again and again after amputation. Similar renewal is either rarer or more difficult in the case of Siren and Proteus. In frogs regeneration of amputated limbs does not usually take place, but instances have been recorded. Chelonians, crocodiles and snakes are unable to regenerate lost parts to any extent, while lizards and geckoes possess the capacity in a high degree. The capacity is absent almost completely in birds and mammals. In coelenterates, worms, and tunicates the power is exhibited in a very varying extent. In Hydra, Nais, and Lumbriculus, after transverse section, each part may complete the whole^ animal. In most worms the greater, and in particular the anterior part, will grow a new posterior part, but the separated posterior portion dies. In Hydra, sagittal and horizontal amputations result in the completion of the separated parts. In worms such operations result in death, which no doubt may be a mere consequence of the more severe wound. Extremely interesting instances of regeneration are what are called “ Heteromorphoses,” where the removed part is replaced by a dissimilar structure. The tail of a lizard, grown after amputation, differs in structure from the normal tail: the spinal cord is replaced by an epithelial tube which gives off no nerves; the vertebrae are replaced by an unsegmented cartilaginous tube; very frequently “super-regeneration” occurs, the amputated limb or tail being replaced by double or multiple new structures.
J. Loeb produced many heteromorphoses on lower animals. He lopped off the polyp head and the pedal disc of a Tubulariat  and supported the lopped stem in an inverted position in the sand; the original pedal end, now superior, gave rise to a new polyp head, while the neck-end, on regeneration, formed a pedal disc. In Cerianthus, a sea-anemone, and in done, an ascidian, regeneration after his operations resulted in the formation of new mouth-openings in abnormal places, surrounded by elaborate structures characteristic of normal mouths. Other observers have recorded heteromorphoses in Crustacea, where antennulae have been regenerated in place of eyes. It appears that, in the< same fashion as^ more simply organized animals display a capacity for reproduction of lost parts greater than that of higher animals, so embryos and embryonic structures generally have a higher power of renewal than that displayed by the corresponding adult organs or organisms. Moreover, experimental wr ork on the young stages of organisms has revealed a very striking series of phenomena, similar to the heteromorphoses in adult tissues, but more extended in range. H. Driesch, O. Hertwig and others, by separating the segmentation spheres, by destroying some of them, by compressing young embryos by glass plates, and by many other means, have caused cells to develop
so as to give rise to structures which in normal development they would not have formed.
It is clear that there are at least three kinds of factors involved in regeneration. There are: (i) Regenerations due to the presence of undifferentiated, or little differentiated, cells, which have retained the normal capacity of multiplication when conditions are favourable. (2) Regenerations due to the presence of special complicated rudiments, the stimulus to the development of which is the removal of the fully formed structure. (3) Regeneration involving the general capacity of protoplasm to respond to changes in the surroundings by changes of growth. The most general view is to regard regenerations as special adaptations; and A. Weismann, following in this matter Arnold Lang, has developed the idea at considerable length, and has found a place for regenerations in his system of the germ-plasm (see Heredity) by the conception of the existence of “ accessory determinants.” Hertwig, on the other hand, attaches great importance to the facts of regeneration as evidence for his view that every cell of a body contains a similar essential plasm.
In E. Schwalbe’s Morphologie der Minbildungen (1904), part i. chap, v., an attempt is made to associate the facts of regeneration with those of embryology and pathology. Our knowledge of the facts, however, is not yet systematic enough to allow of important general conclusions. The power of regeneration appears to be in some cases a special adaptation, but more often simply an expression of the general power of protoplasm to grow and to reproduce its kind. It has been suggested that regenerated parts always represent ancestral stages, but there is no conclusive evidence for this view.    (P- C. M.)
REGENSBURG (Ratisbon), a city and episcopal see of Germany, in the kingdom of Bavaria, and the capital of the government district of the Upper Palatinate. Pop, (1905) 48,412. It is situated on the right bank of the Danube, opposite the influx of the Regen, 86 m. by rail N.E. from Munich, and 60 m. S.E. of Nuremberg. On the other side of the river is the suburb Stadt-am-Hof, connected with Regensburg by a long stone bridge of the 12th century, above and below which are the islands of Oberer and Unterer Worth. In appearance the town is quaint and romantic, presenting almost as faithful a picture of a town of the early middle ages as Nuremberg does of the later. One of the most characteristic features in its architecture is the number of strong loopholed towers attached to the more ancient dwellings. The interesting “ street of the envoys ” (Gesandtenstrasse) is so called because it contained the residences of most of the envoys to the German diet, whose coats-of-arms may still be seen on many of the houses.
The cathedral, though small, is a very interesting example of pure German Gothic. It was founded in 1275, and completed in 1634, with the exception of the towers, which were finished in 1869. Theinterior contains numerous interesting monuments, including one of Peter Vischer’s masterpieces. Adjoining the cloisters are two chapels of earlier date than the cathedral itself, one of which, known as the “ old cathedral,” goes back perhaps to the 8th century. The church of St James—also called Schottenkirche—a plain Romanesque basilica of the 12th century, derives its name from the monastery of Irish Benedictines (“ Scoti ”) to which it was attached; the principal doorway is covered with very singular grotesque carvings. The old parish church of St Ulrich is a good example of the Transition style of the 13th century, and contains a valuable antiquarian collection. Examples of the Romanesque basilica style are the church of Obermunster, dating from 1010, and the abbey church of St Emmeran, built in the 13th century, and remarkable as one of the few German churches with a detached belfry. The beautiful cloisters of the ancient abbey, one of the oldest in Germany, are still in fair preservation. In 1809 the conventual buildings were converted into a palace for the prince of Thurn and Taxis, hereditary postmaster-general of the Holy Roman Empire. The town hall, dating in part from the 14th century, contains the rooms occupied by the imperial diet from 1663 to 1806. An historical interest also attaches to the Gasthof zum Goldenen Kreuz (Golden Cross Inn), where Charles V. made the acquaintance of Barbara Blomberg, the mother of Don John of Austria (b. 1547). The house is also shown where Kepler died in 1630. Perhaps the most pleasing modern building in the city is the Gothic villa of the king of Bavaria on the bank of the Danube. At Kumpfmtihl, in the immediate neighbourhood of the city, was discovered, in 1885, the remains of a Roman camp with an arched gateway; the latter, known as the Porta Praetoria, was cleared in 1887. Among the public institutions of the city should be mentioned the public library, picture gallery, botanical garden, and the institute for the making of stained glass. The educational establishments include two gymnasia, an episcopal clerical seminary, a seminary for boys and a school of church music. Among the chief manufactures are iron and steel wares, pottery, parquet flooring, tobacco, and lead pencils. Boat-building is also prosecuted, and a brisk transit trade is carried on in salt, grain and timber.
Near Regensburg are two very handsome classical buildings, erected by Louis I. of Bavaria as national monuments of German patriotism and greatness. The more imposing of the two is the Walhalla, a costly reproduction of the Parthenon, erected as a Teutonic temple of fame on a hill rising from the Danube at Donaustauf, 6 m. to the east. The interior, which is as rich as coloured marbles, gilding, and sculptures can make it, contains the busts of more than a hundred German worthies. The second of King Louis’s buildings is the Befreiungshalle at Kelheim, 14 m. above Regensburg, a large circular building which has for its aim the glorification of the heroes of the war of liberation in 1813.
The early Celtic settlement of Radespona (L. Lat. Ratisbona) was chosen by the Romans, who named it Castra Regina, as the centre of their power on the upper Danube. It is mentioned as a trade centre as early as the 2nd century. It afterwards became the seat of the dukes of Bavaria, and one of the main bulwarks of the East Frankish monarchy; and it was also the focus from which Christianity spread over southern Germany. St Emmeran founded an abbey here in the middle of the 7th century, and St Boniface established the bishopric about a hundred years later. Regensburg acquired the freedom of the empire in the 13th century, and was for a time the most flourishing city in southern Germany. It became the chief seat of the trade with India and the Levant, and the boatmen of Regensburg are frequently heard of as expediting the journeys of the Crusaders. The city was loyally Ghibelline in its sympathies, and was a favourite residence 01 the emperors. Numerous diets were held here from time to time, and after 1663 it became the regular place of meeting of the German diet. The Reformation found only temporary acceptance at Regensburg, and was met by a counter-reformation inspired by the Jesuits. Before this period the city had almost wholly lost its commercial importance owing to the changes in the great highways of trade. Regensburg had its due share in the Thirty Years* and other wars, and is said to have suffered in all no fewer than seventeen sieges. In 1807 the town and bishopric were assigned to the prince primate Dalbcrg, and in 1810 they were ceded to Bavaria. After the battle of Eggmuhl in 1809 the Austrians retired upon Regensburg, and the pursuing French defeated them again beneath its walls and reduced a great part of the city to ashes.
See Gemeiner, Chronik der Stadt und des Hockstifts Regensburg (4 vols., Regensburg, 1800-24) ; Chroniken der deutschen Stadte,vo\. xv. (Leipzig, 1878); Count v.Waldersdorf, Regensburginseiner Vergangen-heit und Gegenwart (4th ed., Regensburg, 1896); Fink, Regensburg in seiner Vorzeit und Gegenwart (6th ed., Regensburg, 1903); and Schratz, Fuhrer durch Regensburg (5th ed., G. Dengler, Regensburg, 1904).
REGENT (from Lat. regere, to rule), one who rules or governs, especially one who acts temporarily as an administrator of the realm during the minority or incapacity of the king. This latter function, however, is one unknown to the English common law. “ In judgment of law the king, as king, cannot be said to be a minor, for when the royal body politic of the king doth meet with the natural capacity in one person the whole body shall have the quality of the royal politic, which is the greater and more worthy and wherein is no minority. For omne majus continet in se minus ” (Coke upon Littleton, 43a). But for reasons of necessity a regency, however anomalous it may be in strict law, has frequently been constituted both in England and Scotland. The earliest instance in English history is the appointment of the earl of Pembroke with the assent of the loyal barons on the accession of Henry III.
Whether or not the sanction of parliament is necessary for the appointment is a question which has been much discussed. Lord Coke recommends that the office should depend on the will of
parliament (lnst., vol. iv. p. 58), and in modern times provision for a regency has always been made by act of parliament. In Scotland the appointment of regents was always cither by the assent of a council or of parliament. Thus in 1315 the earl of Moray was appointed regent by Robert I. in a council. At a later period appointment by statute was the universal form. Thus by an act 01 1542 the earl of Arran was declared regent during the minority of Mary. By an act of 1567 the appointment by Mary of the earl of Moray as regent was confirmed. As late as 1704 provision was made for a ∣ regency after the death of Anne. The earliest regency in England resting upon an express statute was that created by 28 Hen. VIll. c. 7, under which the king appointed his executors to exercise the authority of the crown till the successor to the crown should attain the age of eighteen if a male or sixteen if a female. They delegated their rights to the protector Somerset, with the assent of the lords spiritual and temporal. No other example of a statutory provision for a regency occurs till 1751. In that year the act of 24 Geo. II. c. 24 constituted the princess-dowager of Wales regent of the kingdom in case the cιown should descend to any of her children before such child attained the age of eighteen. A council, called the council of regency, was appointed to assist the princess. A prescribed oath was to be taken by the regent and members of the council. Their consent was necessary for the marriage of a successor to the crown during minority. It was declared to be unlawful for the regent to make war or peace, or ratify any treaty with any foreign power, or prorogue, adjourn or dissolve any parliament without the consent of the majority of the council of regency, or give her assent to any bill for repealing or varying the Act of Settlement, the Act of Uniformity, or the Act of the Scottish parliament for securing the Protestant religion and Presbyterian church government in Scotland (1707, c. 6). The last is an invariable provision, and occurs in all subsequent Regency Acts. The reign of George III. affords examples of provision for a regency during both the infancy and incapacity of a king.
The act of 5 Geo. IIL c. 27 vested in the king power to appoint a regent under the sign manual, such regent to be one of certain named members of the royal family. The remaining provisions closely followed those of the act of George IL In 1788 the insanity of the king led to the introduction of a Regency bill. In the course of the debate in the House of Lords the duke of York disclaimed on behalf of the prince of Wales any right to assume the regency without the consent of parliament. Owing to the king’s recovery the bill ultimately dropped. On a return of the malady in 1810 the act of 51 Geo. III. c. 1 was passed, appointing the prince of Wales regent during the king’s incapacity. The royal assent was given by commission authorized by resolution of both Houses. By this act no council of regency was appointed. There was no restriction on the regent’s authority over treaties, peace and war, or parliament, as in the previous acts, but his power of granting peerages, offices and pensions was limited. At the accession of William IV. the duchess of Kent was, by 1 Will. IV. c. 2, appointed regent, if necessary, until the Princess Victoria should attain the age of eighteen. No council of regency was appointed. By 1 Vict. c.. 72 lords justices were nominated as a kind of regency council without a regent in case the successor to the crown should be out of the realm at the queen’s death. They were restricted from granting peerages, and from dissolving parliament without directions from the successor. By 3 & 4 Vict. c. 52 Prince Albert was appointed regent in case any of Queen Victoria’s children should succeed to the crown under the age of eighteen. The only restraint on his authority was the usual prohibition to assent to any bill repealing the Act of Settlement, &c. . When George V. came to the throne a Regency Bill was again required, as his eldest son was under age, and Queen Mary was appointed. By 10 Geo. IV. c. 7 the office of regent of the United Kingdom cannot be held by a Roman
Catholic. A similar disability is imposed in most, if not all, Regency Acts.
REGGIO CALABRIA (anc. Regium, q.v.), a town and archiépiscopal see of Calabria, Italy, capital of the province of Reggio, on the Strait of Messina, 248 m. S.S.E. from Naples by rail. Pop. (1906) 39,941 (town); 48,362 (commune). It is the terminus of the railways from Naples along the west coast, and from Metaponto along the east coast of Calabria. The straits are here about 7 m. wide, and the distance to Messina nearly 10 m. The ferryboats to Messina therefore cross by preference from Villa S. Giovanni, 8 m. N. of Reggio, whence the distance is only 5 m. In 1894 the town suffered from an earthquake, though less severely, than in 1783. It was totally destroyed, however, by the great earthquake of December 1908; in the centre of the town about 35,000 out of 40,000 persons perished. The cathedral, which dated from the 17th century, and the ancient castle which rose above it, were wrecked. Great damage was done by a seismic wave following the shock. The sea front was swept away, and the level of the land hereabouts was lowered. (See further Messina.)
REGGIO NELL' EMILIA, a city and episcopal see of Emilia, Italy, the capital of the province of Rcggio nell' Emilia (till 1859 part of the duchy of Modena), 38 m. by rail N.W. of Bologna. Pop. (1906) 19,681 (town); 64,548 (commune). The cathedral, originally erected in the 12th century, was reconstructed in the 15th and 16th; the façade shows traces of both periods, the Renaissance work being complete only in the lower portion. S. Prospero, close by, has a façade of 1504, in which are incorporated six marble lions belonging to the original Romanesque edifice. The Madonna della Ghiara, built in 1597 in the form of a Greek cross, and restored in 1900, is beautifully proportioned and finely decorated in stucco and with frescoes of the Bolognese school of the early 17th century. There are several good palaces of the early Renaissance, a fine theatre (1857) and a museum containing important ρalaeo-ethnological collections, ancient and medieval sculptures, and the natural history collection of Spallanzani. Lodovico Ariosto, the poet (1474-1533), was born in Reggio, and his father’s house is still preserved. The industries embrace the making of cheese, objects in cement, matches, and brushes, the production of silkworms, and printing; and the town is the centre of a rich agricultural district. It lies on the main line between Bologna and Milan, and is connected by branch lines with Guastalla and Sassuolo (hence a Une to Modena).
Regium. Lepidi or Regium Lepidum was probably founded by M. Aemilius Lepidus at the time of the construction of the Via Aemilia (187 B.c.). It lay upon this road, half-way between Mutina and Parma. It was during the Roman period a nourishing munici-pium, but perhaps never became a colony ; and it is associated with no event more interesting than the assassination of M. Brutus, the father of Cæsar’s friend and foe. The bishopric dates perhaps from the 4th century a.d. Under the Lombards the town was the seat of dukes and counts; in the 12th and 13th centuries it formed a flourishing republic, busied in surrounding itself with walls (1229), controlling the Crostolo and constructing navigable canals to the Po, coining money of its own, and establishing prosperous schools. About 1290 it first passed into the hands of Obizzo d’Este, and the authority of the Este family was after many vicissitudes more formally recognized in 1409. In the contest for liberty which began in 1796. and closed with annexation to Piedmont in 1859, Reggio took vigorous part.
REGICIDE (Lat. rex, a king, and caedere, to kill), the name given to any one who kills a sovereign. Regicides is the name given in English history at the Restoration of 1660 to those persons who were responsible for the execution of Charles I. On the 4th of April 1660 Charles II. in the Declaration of Breda promised a free pardon to all his subjects " excepting only such persons as shall hereafter be excepted by parliament,” and on the 14th of May the House of Commons ordered the immediate arrest of " all those persons who sat in judgment upon the late king’s majesty when sentence was pronounced.” The number of regicides was estimated at 84, this number being composed of the 67 present at the last sitting of the court of justice, 11 others who had attended earlier sittings, 4 officers of the court and the 2 executioners. Many of them were arrested or surrendered themselves, and the House of Commons in considering the proposed bill of indemnity suggested that only twelve of the regicides, who were named, should forfeit their lives; but the House of Lords urged that all the king’s judges, with three exceptions, and some others, should be treated in this way.
Eventually a compromise was agreed upon, and the bill as passed on the 29th of August 1660 divided the regicides into six classes for punishment: (1) Four of them, although dead—Cromwell, Ireton, Bradshaw and Pride—were to be attainted for high treason. (2) The estates of twenty others., also dead, were to be subjected to fine or forfeiture. (3) Thirty living regicides were excepted from all indemnity.. (4) Nineteen living regicides were also excepted, but with a saving clause that their execution was to be suspended until a special act of parliament was passed for this purpose. (5) Six others were to be punished, but not capitally. (6) Two, Colonels Hutchinson and Thomas Lister, were simply declared incapable of holding any office. Two regicides—Ingoldsby, who declared he had only signed the warrant under compulsion, and Colonel Matthew Thomlinson—escaped without punishment. A court of thirty-four commissioners was then appointed to try the regicides, and the trial took place in October 1660. Twenty-nine were condemned to 1 death, but only ten were actually executed, the remaining nineteen
