thus his utmost efforts only attain a sort of composition between the true and the fictitious, just as the dress ot Lear, as performed on the stage, is neither that of a modem sovereign, nor the cerulean painting and bear-hide with which the Britons, at the time when that monarch is supposed to have lived, tattooed their persons, and sheltered themselves from cold. All this inconsistency is avoided by adopting the style of our grandfathers and great-grandfathers, sufficiently antiquated to accord with the antiquated character of the narrative, yet copious enough to express all that is necessary to its interest, and to supply that deficiency of colouring which the more ancient times do not afford.
“ It is no doubt true that The Old English Baron, written in the latter and less ambitious taste, is sometimes tame and tedious, not to say mean and tiresome. The total absence of peculiar character (for every person introduced is rather described as one of a genus than as an original, discriminated, and individual person) may have its effect in producing the tedium which loads the story in some places. This is a general defect in the novels of the period, and it was scarce to be expected that the amiable and accomplished authoress, in her secluded situation, and with acquaintance of events and characters derived from books alone, should have rivalled those authors who gathered their knowledge of the human heart from having, like Fielding and Smollett, become acquainted, by sad experience, with each turn of ‘ many-coloured life.’ Nor was it to be thought that she should have emulated in this particular her prototype Walpole, who, as a statesman, a poet, and a man of the world, ‘ who knew the world like a man,’ has given much individual character to his sketch of Manfred. What we here speak of is not the deficiency in the style and costume, but a certain creeping and low line of narrative and sentiment ; which may be best illustrated by the grave and minute accounting into which Sir Philip Harclay and the Baron Fitzowen enter, after an event so unpleasant as the judgment of heaven upon a murderer, brought about by a judicial combat, and that combat occasioned by the awful and supernatural occurrences in the eastern chamber, where we find the arrears of the estate gravely set off against the education of the heir, and his early maintenance in the baron’s family. Yeteven these prolix, minute, and unnecessary details are precisely such as would occur in a similar story told by a grandsire or grandame to a circle assembled round a winter’s fire ; and while they take from the dignity of the composition, and would therefore have been rejected by a writer of more exalted imagination, do certainly add in some degree to its reality, and bear in that respect a resemblance to the art with which De Foe impresses on his readers the truth of his fictions, by the insertion of many minute and immaterial or unnatural circumstances, which we are led to suppose could only be recorded because they are true. Perhaps, to be circumstantial and abundant in minute detail, and, in one word, though an unauthorized one, to be somewhat
prosy,
is a secret mode of securing a certain necessary degree of credulity from the hearers of a ghost-story. It gives a sort of quaint antiquity to the whole, as belonging to the times of ‘ superstitious elde ;’ and those whom we have observed to excel in oral narratives of such a nature, usually study to secure the attention of their audience by employing this art. At least, whether owing to this mode of telling her tale, or to the interest of the story itself, and its appeal to the secret reserve of superstitious feeling which maintains its influence in most hosoms, The Old English Baron has always produced as strong an effect as any story of the kind, although liable to the objections which we have freely stated, without meaning to impeach the talents of the amiable authoress.” (a.)
REEVING, in nautical language, the putting a rope through a block. Hence to pull a rope out of a block, is called
unreeving.
REFECTION, amongst ecclesiastics, a spare meal or repast, just sufficient for the support of life. Hence the hall in convents, and other communities, where the monks, nuns, and others, take their refections or meals in common, is called the
refectory.
REFLECTION, the return or progressive motion of a moving body, occasioned by some obstacle which prevented it from pursuing its former direction.
Circular Instrument of Reflection,
an instrument for measuring angles to a very great degree of accuracy. It was invented
hy
the celebrated astronomer Mayer of Gottingen, principally with a view to do away the errors of the divisions of the limb ; and has since been much improved by the Chevalier de Borda, and by Magellan. This instrument is particularly applicable to the measuring of the distances of the heavenly bodies, and was used by the French in their part of the operation undertaken for determining the difference of the meridians of Paris and Greenwich.
Reflection of Light.
See Optics.
Reflection is also used figuratively, to signify an operation of the mind, by which it turns its vjew as it were inwards upon itself, and makes itself and its own operations the object of its disquisition ; and by contemplating the manner, order, and laws, which it observes in perceiving ideas, comparing them together, reasoning, and judging, it frames new ideas of the relations discovered therein. See Metaphysics.
REFLEX, in
Painting,
means those places in a picture which are supposed to be illuminated by light reflected from some other body in the same piece.
REFLUX, the backward course of water, has the same meaning as the ebbing of the sea, and is opposed to the flood, flux, or flowing of the sea.
REFORM means a change from worse to better, a reestablishment or revival of former neglected discipline, or a correction of abuses.
REFORMATION is, in general, the act of reforming or correcting an error or abuse in religion, discipline, or the like. By way of eminence, the word is used for that great alteration and reformation in the corrupted system of Christianity, commenced by Luther in the year 1517.
Before the period of
tlle
Reformation, the pope had declared himself the sovereign of the whole world. All the parts of it which were inhabited by those who were not Christians, he accounted the same as if they were uninhabited ; and if those who called themselves Christians resolved on occupying any of those countries, he gave them full liberty to make war upon the inhabitants without any provocation. The countries, if conquered, were to be parcelled out according to the pope’s pleasure ; and dreadful was the situation of that prince who refused to obey the will of the sovereign pontiff. In consequence of this extraordinary authority which the pope had assumed, he at last granted to the king of Portugal all the countries to the eastward of Cape Nun in Africa, and to the king of Spain all the countries to the westward of that point or headland. In this, according to the opinions of some, was completed in his person the character of Antichrist sitting in the temple of God, and showing himself as God (2 Thess. ii. 4). He had long before, say they, assumed in spiritual matters the supremacy belonging to the Deity himself ; and now he assumed the same supremacy in temporal affairs, giving the extreme regions of the earth to whomsoever he pleased. The Reformation, therefore, they consider as the immediate effect of divine power taking vengeance on this and all other deviations from the system of truth ; whilst others regard it merely as an effect of natural causes, which might have been foreseen and prevented, without abridging the papal power in any considerable degree.
Be this as it may, however, the partition above mentioned was the last piece of insolence which the pope ever had,
