the increments of the resistance are greateτ than those due to the squares of the velocities as the velocity approaches a certain limit, which depends upon the depth of the fluid ; 
3d,
that immediately after passing this limit, the resistance suffers a sudden diminution, and becomes much less than that due to the square of tlle velocity, after which it continues to receive increments, of which the ratio is less than that due to the increment of the square of the velocity. As these phenomena appeared inconsistent with the received theories of hydrodynamics, it was important to investigate their causes. The deviation from the law of the squares, at the greater velocities, might be ascribed in part to a partial emersion of the floating body ; for the resistance being taken in the ratio of the square of the velocity upon that part only of the body which remains immersed, the aggregate resistance will increase less rapidly at the higher velocities, and may even diminish as the velocity is increased. But the principal and most remarkable part of the phenomena, namely, the rapid increase of resistance as the velocity approaches a certain limit, and its sudden diminution when the velocity passed that limit, was found to depend on the generation of waves, which alter the form of the surface of the fluid, and consequently the position of the floating body.
When a solid body is dragged along the surface of a fluid, a wave is generated which moves in the direction of the motion of the body, with a velocity nearly uniform. The velocity of the wave is independent of the form or velocity of the moving body, and depends only on the depth of the fluid, being in tact equal to the velocity acquired by a body falling in vacuo through a space equal to half the depth of the fluid, as was demonstrated by Lagrange. The existence and mode of propagation of the wave being established, it is easy to see that the resistance will be greatly modified by the position of the moving body relatively to the wave. A vessel coming behind or following the wave is very differently circumstanced from one drawn in a horizontal position along the level surface of a quiescent fluid. The prow is pressed into the anterior wave, and consequently the bow more deeply immersed ; the keel also assumes an inclined position, whence the vertical section of the immersed part of the body is increased, and on both these accounts a greater body of fluid is displaced. In addition to this, the increased immersion of the bow augments the anterior wave, and the augmented height gives rise to more rapid currents along the sides. Thus all the elements of resistance are increased ; and it is obvious, that the more closely the vessel follows on the wave, the more powerful will be the effect of the retarding forces. Hence there is a very rapid increase of resistance in approximating gradually to the velocity of the wave. But if we suppose the vessel to be lifted up on the top of the wave, all the retarding forces are at once annihilated, the vessel recovers its horizontal position, and,
by reason of the curvature of the wave, the immersion of the ends becomes a minimum. When the velocity of the vessel exceeds that of the wave, the displaced fluid is, pushed aside by the prow of the vessel, and is accumulated on both sides of it in the form of a continuous wave, which remains to fill up the void when the vessel has passed through, so that the equilibrium of the hydrostatic pressure is very little disturbed, and immediately restored. Hence it is always found, that the commotion of the fluid is much greater when the velocity of the body is less than that of the wave, than in the contrary case.
The following experiments will give an idea of the manner in which the resistance is affected by the velocity. The depth of the canal was about five feet and a half, and the velocity of the wave from eleven to twelve feet per second, or about eight miles per hour. The weight of the vessel and load was 10,239 lbs.
Velocity in Miles    Moving Force,
per hour.    in lbs.
4∙72    112
5∙92    261
6∙19    275
904    250
10∙48    268∙5.
Thus it appears, that at six miles per hour
behind
the wave, the resistance was greater than at nine miles per hour 
upon
the wave ; and at ten miles and a half per hour it was very little greater than at 5∙9. The breadth of the canal materially affects the resistance. A narrow canal, by preventing the diffusion of the wave, increases its height, whence the resistance is increased when the velocity of the vessel is less than that of the wave ; but when the velocity is greater than that of the wave, the contrary effect takes place. In both cases the narrowness of the canal augments the effect of the wave. The practical importance of these results is obvious.
Some experiments have also been recently made for the purpose of determining the amount and law of atmospheric resistance on railway-carriages. The experiments were made by starting a train of carriages with a given velocity down an inclined plane, and determining the velocity when the train ceased to be accelerated. The inclination of the plane and the weight of the carriages and load being known, the accelerating force of gravity is easily computed ; and as this is equal, when the velocity becomes uniform, to the aggregate resistance, if we subtract the part due to friction, the part attributable to the resistance of the atmosphere becomes known. The results seemed to show that the atmospheric resistance increases in a considerably more rapid ratio than the squares of the volocity, but, on account of the great uncertainty which at present exists respecting the amount of the friction of carriage-wheels constrained to move on rails, they are not deserving of much confidence.
(s.)
RESOLUTION, in
Music.
To resolve a discord or dissonance, says Rousseau, is to carry it according to rule into a consonance in the subsequent chord. There is for that purpose a procedure prescribed, both for the fundamental bass of the dissonant chord, and for the part by which the dissonance is formed.
Resolution
Bay,
a bay on the west coast of Christina, one of the Marquesas Islands, in the South Pacific Ocean. It is so called from Captain Cook’s ship the Resolution having anchored in it in the year 1774. Long. 130. 8. W. Lat. 9. 55. S.
Resolution
Island,
one of the Society Islands, in the South Pacific Ocean, about four miles long. It is very flat, and is covered with wood. Long. 141. 39. W. Lat. 17. 24. S.
RESORT, a French word, sometimes used by English authors to signify the jurisdiction of a court, and particularly one from which there is no appeal. Thus it is said, that the House of Lords judge
en dernier ressort,
or in the last resort.
RESOULABAD, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Agra, district of Etaweh, seventy-two miles west by south from Lucknow. Resoul signifies messenger, a title which belongs to Mahommed ; and a number of small places in the East are called after him.
RESPONDENT, in the schools, one who maintains a thesis in any art or science ; who is thus called from his being required to answer all the objections proposed by the opponent.
REST, the continuance of a body in the same place, or
