save the engineers a deal of trouble, if, where curves are to be run, a man is sent a-head to put in marks at short distances, giving him the measure from the nearest hedge on the plan, which measure he takes on the ground, and sticks in his mark.
It will be best to take ground enough to make the embankments sufficiently wide ; if this is not attended to, when they come to shrink, as they undoubtedly will, they become too^narrow, and an addition has to be made to their width, which will be found a very troublesome operation, such additions being peculiarly liable to slip.
The survey, with complete plans and book of reference, containing the land for at least three times the width required for the railway, shewing every field numbered for each parish, with its owner and occupier, ought not to cost more than L.15 per mile. The best plan will be to survey as wide as is intended to apply for a power of deviation in the act of parliament.
The next thing is for the engineer to make out his detailed estimates, and get ready his plans and sections to be deposited in parliament, and with the clerks of the peace for the several counties through which the line will pass ; he should consult the standing orders of both houses, or be supplied with such extracts as relate to his department. In his estimates there are unfortunately many difficulties ; and most people forget the distinction between a railway being completed and opened, and opened and completed. Besides this, let an engineer be ever so much inclined to make a full and clear exposition of the cost of a line of railway, he may plainly see that if he does so the line will never be made, although it would be a profitable speculation. We should recommend, nevertheless, that no other but a correct and fair estimate should in all cases be furnished, in order to compare it with the traffic. For this purpose, every known bridge and viaduct should be separately computed, and ample allowance made for occupation bridges ; the land, together with all the earthwork, tunnels, fencing, and permanent way should then be calculated, the secretary furnishing an estimate of the office expenses, printing, stationery, travelling expenses, law, advertising, conveyancing, and all other items of this kind. At least ten per cent, should be added to the engineering estimate for stations, and the machinery connected with them, and a full allowance for engines and carriages. When every thing that can be thought of is thus collected together, allow not less that twenty-five per cent, for contingencies ; and note that by a mean of nearly 100 railways, the whole number of bridges average 2
∣
per mile.
In estimating for rock, as this is seldom found except in deep cuttings, it may generally be taken as earth-work, with the necessary slopes. For instance, in a cutting forty-five Qcep1 with slopes two to one, and a base of thirty feet, the sectional area of the opening, and of course the cubic contents of any given length, is four times the area of the cut of the same length with vertical sides, and a price on a rock cutting thus taken out, may be put at four times as much as the earth cutting with slopes, without any increase of estimate. In shallow cuttings this does not hold good ; but the excess may safely be thrown on the contingencies, the amount not being great, and the occurrence seldom. In a thirty-feet cutting, the difference is only three times, which may be sufficient when the rock is not very hard, with the saving in land to assist the price ; but in a sixty-feet cutting, with slopes of two to one, the quantity is five times that of vertical cutting, and with the saving in the land occupied by the slopes, would make the rock cutting much the cheapest, unless of extraordinary hardness. It will take more time to cut through the rock, length for length, but would not if it could be entered at several places at once. Where land is extremely valuable, it will in many cases be cheapest in a cutting to support the sides with re
taining walls, purchasing little more than the absolute width 1 of the railway.    s,
The width of the land required, will of course vary with the depth of the cuttings and length of the embankments, together with the slopes necessary to be given ; rock, for instance, stands generally vertical, chalk varies from ½ to 1, to 1 to 1 ; gravel l½to 1 ; the coal measures 1½ to 1. The London clay has been made to stand at 1 to 1, and has slipped at 3 to 1, depending greatly upon the dryness of it when tipped into the embankment. Blue soapy shale has slipped at.4 to 1, for instance, on Bugbrook Downs, in Northamptonshire ; and in every stratum there are great variations, much depending on the weather. Bad material in wet weather will often stand at no slope whatever. A double line will have ample width in fifteen yards, allowing two yards on each side for the drainage and fencing. The land required for this amounts to 5,455 acres per mile forward, and if 1∙454545 is multiplied by the number of yards in perpendicular height, in any embankment or cutting, at slopes of 2 to 1, it will give the additional number of acres per mile forward, and by a geometrical average, the whole line may be very closely estimated in this way. For example,takea line of 112 miles in length,and l5yardsinbreadth, for railway, ditching, and fencing, and averaging in height of embankments and depth of cutting 24 feet or 8 yards, then 5∙455 × 1 l2=6l0, 96 acres for railway, ditching, and fencing, and 8 χ 1∙454545 × 112=l303∙27 acres, required for the slopes at 2 to 1, this giving a total of 1914 acres, and this mode of estimating may be considered to include the land required for stations and approaches to bridges.
It will be necessary to compute, in many cases, whether a viaduct will not be cheaper than an embankment. The method of doing this will be found in the article Viaduct. Where expense is a great object, timber may be made use of ; beams of which, trussed with iron, have lately been introduced instead of arches, and to a great extent in some cases, for instance the Midland Counties railway. On the North Union railway, a timber viaduct is constructed of great height ; several similar works are in course of execution in the north of England ; and in some of the Scotch railways the system of trussed beams of timber has been applied to very large spans. In many instances, a considerable reduction in the cost of bridges and viaducts may thus be made, especially where the crossings are very oblique, or where the additional height of arches would involve great expense in embanked approaches.
Should money be short and time so valuable as to make the expeditious opening of the line a subject of the first importance, great part of the excavations may be removed at night after the line is open, where they are not required for the embankments. This plan is not, however, to be recommended, and still less so making the embankments less than their full width at first ; the additional patch of embankments hardly ever uniting equally with the part first made, but sliding off, and leaving the side of the embankment as smooth as glass.
Expense again may be saved where land is valuable, by iron colonnade viaducts, by which means towns may be entered much farther than is now possible to do without an enormous outlay. The cost of such a viaduct will in general not exceed two-thirds of a brick one of the same height and width ; in fact, there are many ways in which expenses may be lowered, and the railway got into work in a speedy and safe manner at a moderate outlay ; after which, if the project turns out a successful one, ornament may be attended to, to any extent which may be thought advisable.
In the same manner it should be calculated whether a tunnel or an open cutting will be the cheapest mode of getting through hills of importance. The method of doing this will be shewn in the article Tunned. Where rock
