three kinds of argument,—supposing that in the particular case each is accessible, applicable, and necessary,—should be used in the order in which they were explained in preceding paragraphs ; the Argument from Antecedent Probabilities coming first, that from Signs second, and that from Examples last of all. If we violate the principle of this nde, we cripple every branch of our proof, as we may readily convince ourselves by trying the experiment on any case in which all the classes of argument must have place. Let us take the instance of a judicial address, intended to convince a jury that a certain man has committed a murder, supposing also the state of the proof to be such that the speaker rightly considers it necessary to use all the three kinds of argument ; and let us adduce the arguments in the order opposite to that which the rule suggests. By commencing with analogical arguments, or other proofs from example, we instantly prepossess our hearers against the conclusion which we wish to establish. All men feel, more or less, the weakness of this sort of proof when taken by itself, whether they clearly perceive the cause of the weakness or not ; and the defect will strike them forcibly and painfully in a case like that supposed, in which they are naturally reluctant to come to the conclusion which is urged on them : a single example is in such a place even worse than worthless ; accumulated examples perplex the mind, and excite it to an effort of memory which withdraws it from its proper task ; and, lastly, the argument, if adduced at this stage, is a building reared without a foundation ; for, as we have proved no circumstances of the special fact, our hearers have no materials for determining whether our analogy holds or not. Let us next proceed to the argument from signs : we still want something. For, even although we had been able to convince our hearers by the first branch of our argument, that our allegation has in it nothing which common experience has shown to be impossible, or very highly improbable, we have as yet not advanced a single step towards proving
a priori,
that the fact is positively likely to be true, and our audience are still indisposed to believe that it is so. On the supposition made, the proof from signs is stated as in itself not conclusive (for, if it were so, there would be no use for either of the other two kinds of proof) ; and, the case being so,—the fact being, by its accompanying circumstances, made more or less probable, but not certain, and nothing having been established which, like a strong motive, or such probable cause, would lead our hearers to anticipate the fact as likely, before they become acquainted with the corroborating symptoms,—we shall still have failed in gaining our end, and perhaps have come little nearer to it than the point at which we stood in the beginning. In order to complete our evidence, we must, therefore, proceed to the third series of arguments, tending to establish antecedent probability, which now come forward with every possible disadvantage. Our hearers have to apply the argument to the preceding facts, by a toilsome exertion of memory, which prevents the discursive faculties from acting freely, and, if the proof is complicated, may, after all, be completely unsuccessful ; or, if we endeavour to remove this risk, we must do so by a recapitulation, which will be wearisome, inefficient, and in itself an adequate reason for believing that our arrangement has been radically wrong. Let us reverse the arrangement, and everything will find quick and easy access to the mind. We first establish that our conclusion has antecedent presumptions in its favour, and the hearers are thus prepared for receiving with attention, candour, and even prepossession, all specific proofs in support of it. We next adduce those concurrent circumstances which we maintain would not have happened had not the fact taken place which we wish to prove. And, lastly’, after we have conducted thus far those whom we address, examples or analogies complete the chain of proba
bilities. “ After the other proofs have been adduced,” says Aristotle, “ a single example comes in with as much force as the testimony of a single honest witness.” The application of the same principles to the refutation of an address like that now analysed, is too obvious to require illustration.
In any treatise which should aim at following out the principles of rhetoric to their detailed consequences (a design far beyond the limits of these pages), it would be of the highest advantage to devote a separate section to a systematic consideration of the most usual Rhetorical Fallacies. Under this head would be analysed, not only those artifices by which falsehood may in argument be most easily made to pass current for truth, but also those others, by means of which conclusions may be represented as fallacies without really being so. It is not more important to expose the foundations of real fallacies, than to exhibit the unsoundness of those objections which represent as fallacies arguments truly sound. Although this double task belongs, in most of its applications, to logical science, there are many cases in which it is from the principles of rhetoric, not from those of dialectics, that the refutation of the error must be drawn. From Aristotle’s two admirable chapters on Fallacies, and cn the Refutation of Arguments and of Objections, only one observation shall here be cited, on account of the practical importance of the truth which it contains. Wllere, remarks the philosopher, the aim of an argument is merely to establish a probability, contrary facts may always be truly alleged. But the existence of such facts does not prove the argument to be fallacious ; for a probability is not disproved till we have proved that the fact does usually happen contrariwise. The cavil which this remark exposes, lies at the root of very much of the sophistry which has been put in use against truth, both in religion and in politics.
Our next subject of inquiry is Aristotle’s Second Rhetorical ground of Belief; namely, that which arises from the favourable impression created by the discourse as to the Character of the Writer or Speaker. The impression here meant is one arising wholly from the discourse ; for, so far as it is produced by previous knowledge possessed by those who are addressed, it is no subject of rhetorical consideration. This is a ground of belief, which, although it is sometimes very effective in written discourses, and although in such discourses the violation of its principle often occasions lamentable failures, has yet its principal field in spoken oratory. A speaker who is skilled in producing conviction in this way, has often applied to him, in common language, the epithet of plausible. Aristotle places high reliance on this ground of belief ; observing of it, in two different places, that it is most effectual indeed when the audience are very impcrfectly informed on the matter of the discourse, but that, taken all in all, it is probably the most extensively powerful of all means of persuasion ; and that, in deliberative assemblies, it very often triumphs over all other oratorical artifices. The speaker’s Character must be favourably developed in three particulars ; the hearers must be led to have faith in his Moral Worth, in his Understanding, and in his Good Dispositions towards them. It is scarcely possible to overrate the power of the first point. Indeed the art of persuading tlie audience into a belief of his high moral principle, or of his perfect honesty and fairness, is one of the most valuable an orator can acquire. Its attainment should be a leading aim ; but it is not equally attainable in every kind of oratory ; and, in particular, the acquisition of this kind of plausibility is one of the most difficult tasks of a barrister who struggles for success in addressing juries. His difficulties are of two kinds ; the one arising from his audience, mainly founded on their knowledge of his professional position, and their consequent tendency to distrust ; the
