shell,—and our practical experience, even of green fat, is far from extensive ;—but we have watched a siren from the far west ; and as the history of the species in question cannot fail to throw light on the nature and attributes of others to which it is related, and as it is in itself a very extraordinary and interesting reptile, we shall make no apology for the length of the following observations.
The Gardenian siren
(Siren Iacertina,
Linn.), so named in remembrance of Dr Garden, by whom it seems to have been first observed, in its general form and aspect bears a great resemblance to an eel, but is at once to be distinguished from a fish by its anterior arms. The fine specimen long preserved alive by Dr Patrick Neill of Edinburgh was originally transmitted by Dr Farmer of Charlestown, South Carolina, to Dr Monro. It measured one foot five inches in length, and about four inches in circumference. (See Plate CCCCXXXIV. fig. 3.) Its colour was deep blackish brown, rather paler beneath, where it was partially tinged with a bluish hue, and marked all over with numerous small, irregular, pale, ashy-brown spots, not very perceptible except on a rather close inspection. The muzzle was blunt, depressed, sub-rounded or slightly square, and considerably narrower than the hinder portion of the head. The nostrils, which are inconspicuous, are placed near the anterior angle of the upper jaw. The head is broad and flat. The eyes are dim, of an obscure blue, and there is no very obvious distinction of colour between the iris and pupil, both appearing as if seen through a semi-transparent membrane. The gills consist of three fleshy peduncles, which increase in size from the first to the last. They are beautifully branched from beneath and along their lateral and terminal edges, and these little branches are divided and subdivided into still more minute ramifications. This elegant fringe-work forms the true gills, the central and fleshy stalks serving merely as their support. Beneath, and rather in advance of these bodies, are three vertical clefts, through which the water is ejected backwards from the interior of the mouth upon the gills, though with a much more languid and less perceptible action than in fishes. These clefts or branchial perforations are sustained and kept in separation by four arches, which Garden, Ellis, and Camper appear to have mistaken for gills, although both Linnæus and John Hunter took a more accurate view’ of the matter.@@1
The general surface of this siren is very smooth and shining ; and if there are any scales, as some have said, they are not apparent to the naked eye. Towards the tail its form becomes thin and compressed, and that part is margined for several inches both above and below, as well as around its terminal point, by a narrow membrane or fin, which no doubt greatly aids its movements through the water.
The earliest notice of this singular reptile appears to have been communicated by Dr Garden to Linnæus through the medium of Mr Ellis in the year 1765. He described the simultaneous existence of lungs and gills, and concluded that it was a perfect animal, chiefly because there did not exist in Carolina any species of salamander, or other aquatic creature, of equal size, of which it could be regarded as the larva. It was in consequence of the information received regarding this species that Linnæus, though with hesitation, Ibunded his order of
Amphibia meantes,
of which the most peculiar character consisted in there being “ branchiæ et pulmones simul.” The great Swedish naturalist appears to have been particularly interested by the peculiarities of the siren ; for in his reply to Mr Ellis, acknowledging receipt of Dr Garden’s “ very rare two-footed animal with gills and lungs,” he observes that nothing had ever exercised his thoughts so much, nor was there anything he so greatly desired to know’, as tlle real nature of so extraordinary a creature.
Although Ellis and Hunter wisely regarded the siren as a perfect animal, the propriety of this opinion was by no means universally admitted. Pallas, not perceiving that such metamorphoses as he supposed were rendered impossible by the absence of any germ of the hinder extremities, even in the skeleton, still insisted that the siren was nothing more than the larva of a four-footed salamander.@@2 A similar opinion was maintained by Hermann,@@3 Lacépède,@@4 and Schneider.@@5 About twenty years after the original discovery of the animal, Camper (in 1785) examined a specimen in the British Museum, the condition of which was so bad that he was unable to detect the lungs ; whereupon he took up and promulgated an entirely new view, according to which, without reference to the existence of feet, he declared that the siren was a
fish.
Gmelin, of course, immediately classed it with the eels, and it thus became the Jfiu-
rœna siren
of his edition of the
Systema Naturœ !
Whatever may be thought of Dr Garden’s skill as an anatomist, Camper’s conclusion was certainly somewhat precipitate, in the face of so great an authority as that of John Hunter.
In the year 1800, Baron Cuvier received a young siren from M. de Beauvois. Tbe great French anatomist, whose splendid labours have thrown such a flood of light on so many obscure subjects of zoological science, was not likely to lose the opportunity of settling this still disputed point. In his first observations,@@6 and in an after and more ample memoir,@@7 he has, we think, successfully shown that both the proteus and siren are perfect, that is, completed animals, belonging to different genera of Batrachian reptiles, but quite distinct from either lizards or salamanders in any of their progressive stages. Yet the opposite opinion (so tenacious is error) does not continue without adherents. In an elaborate essay by two Italian authors, Sig. Configliachi and Rusconi, in which the siren is incidentally mentioned, these naturalists infer from analogy, that as the canal of tlle nostrils is not so perforated as to open into the interior of the mouth, so it must be incapable of respiring atmospheric air, and would speedily die if removed from its liquid element.@@8
Now, the value of the living siren observed by Dr Neill for six or seven successive seasons, consisted in this,—that it demonstrated
de facto,
what had been previously a matter of mere logical inference on the part of the anatomist. During the long period of its confinement no change whatever took place, either in its general aspect, or in the form or structure of the feet and gills. Haal it been a larva, it would assuredly have lost these last-named organs during the time of observation. But the most curious result regarding this specimen was obtained accidentally, and happily illustrates the very point on which it was most desirable to obtain information. It is thus related by Dr Neill : “ Although I certainly would not have made the experiment of the fragility of the siren, by throwing it on the ground, and although I would have hesitated to keep the animal out of the water for several hours, while I knew that respectable naturalists doubted if it would live more than a few minutes out of that element, yet it so happened that the creature on one occasion made of its own accord an experiment (if it may be so called) illustrative of both points. The water-box itself (in which the siren dwelt) was ten inches deep : it was placed on a plant trellis or shelf, close by the lower end of the sloping roof-sash of the green-house, and thus stood nearly three feet from the ground. At that pe-
1
@@@ See
Phil. Trans,
lvi. 191 and 307.    @@@3
Tabula AJfinitatum Animalium,
256.    @@@5
JJistoria Amphibiorum,
fascie. 1, 48.
@@@2
Nov. Comm. Pelrop.
xix. 438.    
@@@4
Hist. Nut. des Quadrupèdes Ovipaires,
Gl 1.    
@@@6
Bulletin des Sciences,
an. 8, p. 106.
@@@
7
Recherches Anatomiques,
&c. in Humboldt's
Recueil d Observations de Zoologie,
98—117.
@@@8
Del Prolco Anguino di Laurenii Monographia,
Pavia, 1819.
