and, in our peregrinations through the smiling fields, let us not regret to see the banks of rivulets adorned by the colours of these harmless creatures, and animated by their light and lively gambols. Let us contemplate their little manœuvres ; observe them in the midst of stilly lakes, the solitude of which they diminish without troubling the repose ; see them exhibit, under sheets of water, the most agreeable tints, cleave the bosom of the tranquil stream, and vary its silvery surface with many a circling furrow.”
In summer these Ranidæ are usually found in humid places, in grassy meadows, and on the banks of streamlets, into which, when approached, they usually leap and dive. They swim admirably, by means of their webbed hind feet. Frequently at the close of warm rains they spread themselves through the country, and are so numerous as to be crowded and pressed against each other in places where they had never been observed before. To this appearance is owing the popular belief of
rains of frogs,
which undoubtedly is usually a mistake ; but raised by a hurricane, and thereby transported to a great distance, such an occurrence is yet, we believe, quite within the range of possibility. As soon as the summer is over, and the weather begins to get cold, these reptiles lose their natural activity, and give over feeding. When the cold becomes more considerable, they protect themselves from its rigour by sinking into the mud in deep water, in the holes of fountains, and even in the earth. The quantities which sometimes thus collect in one place are so considerable, that they have been known to cover the soil to a foot in depth, and thousands may be taken in a few minutes. Hearne informs us, in his voyage to the Icy Sea of North America, that he many times found under the moss frozen frogs, whose legs might be broken without their exhibiting any sign of life, but which resumed their energy with returning warmth.
Genus Rana, Laurenti, Cuv.
Frogs proper.
This first genus of the Ranidæ has the body slender, the hind feet very long, and more or less webbed ; their skin is smooth ; their upper jaw is furnished all round with a row of minute sharp teeth, and there is an interrupted transverse range in the middle of the palate. The males have on each side, beneath the ears, a fine membranaceous bag, which they expand with air when they croak. They leap and swim admirably. See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 1.
The skeleton of the frogs does not present any trace of ribs ; and the breast-bone, very large, with collar-bones attached, is merely cartilaginous. The cranium is almost prism shaped, flattened above, and very broad behind, and is less round than in the toads. The vertebræ are ten in number. The muscles have a considerable resemblance in arrangement to those of man, and are very strong, very irritable, and very sensible to the action of galvanism. The muzzle in frogs is somewhat more acute than that of toads ; and the nostrils are visible at the summit. Their orbits are large, and are directed upwards ; the eye is large and brilliant, and surrounded by a bright golden circle. The lids are three in number, and all horizontal ; the upper one is a mere projection of the skin ; the lower is more mobile ; and the third, which is quite transparent, moves from below’ upwards, and is most of all in action. Wc have already dwelt so fully on the habits of the whole group, that little requires to be added in this place. It is, however, a curious circumstance, that these animals, like many other inhabitants of the water, can become habituated to the very high temperatures of thermal springs. Thus Reaumur mentions that he had known one found alive in Waterabout IIlo Fahrenheit; and Spallanzani mentions an example of this kind where, in the baths of Pisa, they were exposed to a temperature of 138°.
The power of voice in frogs, commonly called croaking, is exercised by the different species in very different degrees ; a remark which is also applicable to the genus
BuJb 
in their more limited range of expression. It is more par-
ticularl y during the time of rain, and in hot days, in the evening and morning, that they indulge in their harmonious concert. The noise which they make becomes sometimes insupportable. It is principally the males which croak ; their voice being stronger in consequence of the two sacs which they possess on the sides of the neck, and which swell out under the effort. As for the female, she has only a slight swelling in her throat, and produces but a feeble note. During the feudal regime in France, when all the castles were surrounded by water, it is said that it was the business of the serfs to attack the frogs, and prevent them from disturbing the morning repose of the lordly inmates.
It is rather remarkable that these creatures should be so much esteemed as delicious food in some countries, and so much despised and even abhorred in others. The ancients appear not to have discovered the nutritive virtues of frogs, nor their value in the science of gastronomy. In the sixteenth century, however, they were served up at the best tables on the continent. In Britain this kind of aliment is held in detestation, whilst in France and other European countries a very great consumption takes place. They are captured in various ways ; either with lines, or small nets, or by means of a rake. Sometimes they are pursued at night, and with torches, the light of which attracts them. In Vienna, where they are rather favourites, they are fattened in
froggeries
constructed for the express purpose. Though one species of frog is called par excellence the 
edible,
yet several others partake of this distinction. In Germany all parts of these animals are eaten, the skin and offals excepted. In France it is the hinder quarters alone which are used. They are dressed like fish, with white sauce, and in wine, or they are fried or even spitted. A foreign species of great size, to be afterwards mentioned 
(R. grunniens),
which abounds in the West Indies, is often domesticated there for the use of tlle table. The flesh is white and delicate ; it is fricasseed like fow l ; and two frogs make a good dish. Nor is it
frogs proper
alone which are used in this way. The abhorred toads are habitually eaten by the negroes, both in Africa and America ; and there seems to be little doubt that even in Paris the thighs of these animals are constantly sold for those of frogs.
We now proceed to a rapid sketch of the most remarkable species.
R. esculenta,
Linn. The
edible frog, green frog,
or
common frog of France.
The colours of the green frog vary so much, that different individuals might almost be taken for a diversity of species. It is often of a beautiful green colour, spotted with black, with three yellow stripes on the back, and the belly yellowish. This description generally holds good in the environs of Paris. Those in the rivers and ditches of Lombardy have the back of a uniform green colour. Another variety, which has been observed in Holland, has the lips black, round black spots on its sides, and the belly entirely white ; in Provence it has a reddish belly ; and in the neighbourhood of Beauvois, sombre green, with transverse brownish spots upon the limbs, is found to be the prevailing hue. It varies in size from two to three inches, measured from the snout to the end of the body. It abounds in all dead and still waters, and is pre-eminent for its croaking powers. It is very common in France, Italy, and Germany ; but is rare in Britain. It supplies, in the former countries, a very wholesome and agreeable food. It deposits its ova in small bundles, in the pools. This species seldom removes far from the margin of some quiet streamlet, into which it plunges on the least noise. It swims in the same manner as man, with its head above tlle surface. It may be often seen amusing itself among aquatic plants, darting after insects on the wing, mounting upon the umbrageous leaves, or squatted on the bank, with its snout projecting as if to court the rays of the sun, in which it delights, even during the most scorching days. It is indeed
