This resolution was rendered ineffectual by a variety of ι incidents, which widened the breach, and put off to a future day the deliberations which were designed to heal it- The pope ordered his legate to declare to the Diet of Spires, .assembled in 1542, that he would, according to the promise he had already made, assemble a general council, and that Trent should be the place of its meeting, if the diet had no objection to that city. Ferdinand, and the princes who adhered to the cause of the pope, gave their consent to this proposal ; but it was vehemently ‘objected to by the Protestants, both because the council was summoned by the authority of the pope only, and also because the place was within the jurisdiction of his holiness ; whereas they desired a free council, which should not be biassed by the dictates nor awed by the proximity of the pontiff. But this protestation produced no effect. Paul III. persisted in his purpose, and issued his circular letters for the convocation of the council, with the approbation of the emperor. In justice to this pontiff, however, it must be acknowledged, that he showed that he was not averse to every reformation. He appointed four cardinals, and three other persons eminent for their learning, to draw up a scheme for the reformation of tlle church in general, and of that of Rome in particular. The reformation proposed in this plan was indeed extremely superficial and partial ; yet it contained some particulars which could scarcely have been expected from those who composed it. They complained of the pride and ignorance of the bishops, and proposed that none should receive orders but learned and pious men ; and that care should therefore be taken to have proper masters for the instruction of youth. They condemned translations from one benefice to another, with grants of reservation, non-residence, and pluralities. They proposed that some convents should be abolished ; that the liberty of the press should be restrained and limited ; that the colloquies of Erasmus should be suppressed ; that no ecclesiastic should enjoy a benefice out of his own country ; that no cardinal should have a bishopric ; that the questors of St Anthony and several other saints should be abolished ; and, which was the best of all their proposals, that the effects and personal estates of ecclesiastics should be given to the poor. They concluded with complaining of the prodigious number of indigent and ragged priests who frequented St Peter’s church ; and declared, that it was a great scandal to see prostitutes lodged so magnificently at Rome, and riding through the streets on fine mules, whilst the cardinals and other ecclesiastics accompanied them in the most courteous manner. This plan of reformation was turned into ridicule by Luther and Sturmius ; and indeed it left unredressed the greatest grievances of which the Protestants complained.
All this time the emperor had been labouring to persuade the Protestants to consent to the meeting of the council at Trent ; but when he found them fixed in their opposition to the measure, he began to listen to the sanguinary measures of the pope, and resolved to terminate the disputes by force of arms. Upon this the Elector of Saxony and the Landgrave of Hesse, who were the chief supporters of the Protestant cause, took proper measures to prevent their being surprised and overwhelmed by a superior force ; but, before the horrors of war commenced, Luther died in peace at Ayselben, the place of his nativity, in the year 1546.
The emperor and the pope had mutually resolved on the destruction of all who should dare to oppose the council of Trent. The meeting of this council was to serve as a signal for taking up arms ; and accordingly its deliberations were scarcely commenced in 1546, when the Protestants perceived undoubted signs of the approaching storm, and of a formidable union between the emperor and pope, which threatened to overwhelm them at once. This year indeed there had been a new conference at Ratisbon upon the old subject of accommodating differences in religion ; but from the manner in which the debates were carried on, it appeared plainly that these differences could only be decided in the field of battle. The council of Trent, in the mean time, Promulgatedtheirdecrees; whilst the reformed princes, in the Diet of Ratisbon, protested against their authority, and were on that account proscribed by the emperor, who raised an army to reduce them to obedience.
The Elector of Saxony and the Landgrave of Hesse led their forces into Bavaria against the emperor, and cannonaded his camp near Ingolstadt. It was supposed that this would bring on an engagement, which would probably have bee n advantageous to the cause of the reformed ; but this was prevented, chiefly by the perfidy of Maurice duke of Saxony, who invaded the dominions of his uncle. Divisions were also fomented amongst the confederate princes, by the dissimulation of the emperor, and France failed in paying the subsidy which had been promised by its monarch ; all which so discouraged the heads of the Protestant party, that their army soon dispersed, and the Elector of Saxony was obliged to direct his march homewards. But he was pursued by the emperor, who made several forced marches, wdth a view to overpower the enemy before he could have time to recover his vigour. The two armies met near Mul-berg, on the Elbe, on tlle 24th of April 1547 ; and, after a sanguinary action, the elector was entirely defeated and taken prisoner. Maurice, who had so basely betrayed him, was now declared Elector of Saxony ; and by his entreaties, Philip, landgrave of Hesse, the other chief of the Protestants, was persuaded to throw himself on the mercy of the emperor, and to implore forgiveness. To this he consented, relying on the promise of Charles for obtaining pardon, and being restored to liberty ; but, notwithstanding these expectations, he was unjustly detained prisoner, by a scandalous violation of the most solemn convention. It is said that the emperor retracted his promise, and deluded this unhappy prince by the ambiguity of two German w ords. History indeed can scarcely furnish a parallel to the perfidious, mean-spirited, and despotic behaviour of the emperor in the present case. After having received in public the humble submission of the prince on his knees, and set him at liberty in virtue of a solemn treaty, he caused him to be arrested anew without any reason, nay, without any pretence, and kept him a close prisoner for several years. When Maurice remonstrated against this new confinement, the emperor answered that he had never promised that the landgrave should not be imprisoned anew, but only that he should be exempted from perpetual imprisonment ; and, to support this assertion, he produced the treaty.
The affairs of the Protestants now seemed to be desperate. In the Diet of Augsburg, which was soon afterwards called, the emperor required the Protestants to leave tlle decision of these religious disputes to the wisdom of the council which was to meet at Trent. The greater part of the members consented to this proposal, being convinced by the powerful argument of an imperial army, which was at hand to dispel the darkness from the eyes of such as might Otherwdse have been blind to the force of Charles’s reasoning. However, this general submission did not produce the effect which was expected from it. A plague which broke out, or was said to have done so, in the city, caused the greater part of the bishops to retire to Bologna, by which means the council was in effect dissolved ; nor could all the entreaties and remonstrances of the emperor prevail upon the pope to re-assemble it without delay. During this interval, therefore, the emperor judged it necessary to fall upon some method of accommodating the religious differences, and maintaining peace until the council so long expected should finally be decided on. W’ith this view he ordered Julius Pelugius, bishop of Naumberg, Michael Sido-
