ges, or by the Rabnabad, one of its branches, and separated from the mainland by a narrow strait. It is fifteen miles in length, by five in breadth, and at neap tide it is scarcely above water, whilst at high tides it is nearly submerged. It is covered with long grass and underwood, which affords cover for deer and tigers.
RABOGH, a village of Yemen in Arabia, near the coast of the Red Sea, and occupied by Arabs living in tents. It is seventy-eight miles north of Zidda.
RACCA, a town of Diarbekir, in thρ pachalik of Onafa, situated on the eastern bank of the Euphrates, at the mouth of a small river named Beles. It was once the favourite residence of Haroun al Raschid. The town and adjoining country are inhabited by different tribes of wandering Arabs. Long. 38. 50. E. Lat. 36. 5. N.
RACE, in general, signifies running with others in order to obtain a prize, either on foot, or by riding on horseback, in chariots, or otherwise. The race was one of the exercises amongst the ancient Grecian games, which was performed in a course containing one hundred and twenty-five yards ; and those who contended in the foot races were Irequently clothed in armour. Chariot and horse races also formed a part of the ancient games. ' Races were known in England in very early times. Fitzstephen, who wrote in the days of Henry II. mentions the great delight which the citizens of London took in this diversion. From his words, however, it does not appear to have been designed for the purposes of gaming, but merely to have sprung from a generous emulation of showing superior skill in horsemanship. Races appear to have been in vogue in the reign of Elizabeth, and to have been carried to such excess as to injure the fortunes of the nobility. George earl of Cumberland is recorded to have wasted more of his estate than any of his ancestors, and chiefly by his extreme love of horse-races, tiltings, and other expensive diversions.
Race, in genealogy, a lineage or extraction continued from father to son. See Descent.
RACHORE, a town and district of Hindustan, in the province of Bejapore. It is bounded on the north by the river Kistnah, and on the south by Tungbudra. The capital, of the same name, is pleasantly situated on the south back of the river Kistnah. Long. 78.52.E. Lat. 16.20. N.
RACHONTY, a town of Hindustan, in the Balaghaut ceded territory, and district of Gurrumcondah, 125 miles north-west of Madras. Long. 78. 49∙ 20. E. Lat. 18.26. N.
RACINE, John, a great and illustrious French poet, was bom at Ferte-Milon on the 21st of December. 1630. He was the son of John Racine, controller of the salt magazine of that city, and of Joan Sconin, daughter of the king’s warden of thewoods and waters OfVillers-Caterets. Deprived of his Iatherand mother at the early age of three, he passed under tile guardianship of his paternal grandfather, also named John Racine, who, not long afterwards, bequeathed the trust to his widow. He studied first at Beauvais ; next at Paris, in the college of Fearcount; and lastly at Port-Royal-des-Champs, whither a number of eminent persons had retired to devote themselves to piety and the instruction of youth, amongst whom were the advocate Lemaitre, Dr. Hamon, Nicole, Lacy, and Launcelot, authors of the
Logic,
the
General Grammar,
and other works, known under the title of
Me· thadxs de Port-Royal.
Launcelot, in particular, undertook to teach Greek to the youthful Racine. But besides the taste for sound literature and serious studies, these mn-mortal solitaries inspired their pupil with those religious principles which never abandoned him, and which were common to an the great writers and great men of that age. The docility of Racine towards his masters equalled his ardour for study. On one occasion, however, he showed himself refractory. Having accidentally met with the Greek romance of
Theagenes and Chariclea,
he commenced the perusal of this work of fiction, when his master surprising him, whilst thus engaged, took from him the book, and consigned it to the flames. The youth procured another copy, and learned it by heart, after which he placed it in the hands of Launcelot, saying, “ You may bum this also.” An act of disobedience of a kind so novel was the more readily excused because it was not likely to have many imitators.
The first poetical essay of Racine was
La Nymplte de la Seine,
an ode which he composed for the marriage of Louis XIV. and which having made him known to Chaplain, the temporary arbiter of literary reputations and court favours, produced him a hundred louis, which Colbert sent him on the part of the king ; and not long afterwards, he received a pension of six hundred livres. Four years later, towards the close of 1663, another ode,
La Renommée aux Muses, 
composed on the occasion of the establishment of the three Academies, procured for him a second royal gratuity, the order for which was couched in terms peculiarly flattering to the youthful poet. This ode, though inferior to the preceding, was nevertheless more fortunate. Recompensed, like the other, by the king, it had the good fortune to be criticised by Boileau. The poet took an early opportunity to thank the critic, and this proved the origin of that connexion so intimate, so honourable, so useful to Racine, and which was not one of the least advantages which fortune gave him over Corneille. A little before this period, Racine had made the acquaintance of Molière, and had communicated to him a tragedy, entitled
Theagene et Chari-clee,
taken from the romance, which had afforded him such delight at Port-Royal. Molière, disapproving of this production, gave him the plan of the
Thébaide, ou les Frères Ennemis,
a subject on which it is alleged that he had himself been engaged. Racine executed the design, and the piece had some success.
Alexandre,
which was performed the following year, 1665, met with a still more favourable reception, and showed great progress in the versification of the author, who was then only twenty-five years of age. But, excepting the verses, neither of these works gave any indication of what Racine afterwards proved. They were but feeble imitations of Corneille, of whom, by a misfortune common to all imitators, Racine had only adopted the defects ; that is, the cold gallantry mixed with heroism, the idle maxims, the metaphysical reasonings, and the elaborate declamation. Corneille, to whom Racine read his
Alexandre,
counselled him, it is said, to write no more tragedies. At a subsequent period the same advice was given to Voltaire by Fontenelle, after the reading of
Brutus.
But it is fortunate for letters that such counsels are never followed. Voltaire replied to Fontenelle by the production of
Zaire, 
and Racine responded to Comeille by that of his
Andro-maque.
Finding himself pursuing a wrong direction, he suddenly changed his route and took a different one, unknown perhaps even to Comeille himself. The latter had Ustonishedandsurprisedhisaudience; his young rival sought to move and to soften them. Pity appeared to him a tragic resource more active, more extensive, and of an effect more penetrating and less transitory, than admiration. He studied the human heart, its passions, its weaknesses, and its most secret recesses, and there he discovered a species of tragedy altogether new, of which he gave the first and probably most inimitable model
iη
∖
t
∖
s Andromaque ;
that one of all his tragedies which, without being the most perfect, produces the greatest effect on the stage, by the vigorous and just expression of the sentiments and characters, and by the alternations of hope and fear, of terror and pity, with which the poet agitates the soul.
The representation of the
Andromaque
in 1667, was followed almost every year by a new masterpiece. But at first Racine surprised the public by an excursion into the domain of Molière. The
Plaideurs,
imitated from the
Wasps 
of Aristophanes, is a comedy the plot of which is somewhat feeble and inartificial ; but in nature, truth, facility, and
