to. The discovery
of
means for the prevention, or at least diminution, of the extensive forgery to which the substitution of notes in the place of coins had given rise, was indispensably necessary to the success of Mr Ricardo’s plan ; and notwithstanding all the efforts that have been made, this desideratum has not yet been supplied. Forgery in the larger description of notes, or in those for L.5 and upwards, may, with due precaution, be prevented from becoming injuriously prevalent. But low notes, or those of the value of L. 1 or L.2, having to circulate among the labouring classes, and in immense numbers, present facilities for the issue of spurious paper which it has been found impossible materially to diminish. Hence, in 1821, the plan of paying in bars of bullion was abandoned, and the Bank of England recommenced paying in specie.
At length, in 1817, Mr Ricardo published his great work on the “ Principles of Political Economy and Taxation.” This was a step which he did not take without much hesitation. He was not, and did not affect to be, insensible of the value of literary and philosophical reputation ; but his modesty always led him to undervalue his own powers ; and having already obtained a very high degree of celebrity as a writer on currency, he was unwilling to risk what he was already in possession of, by attempting to gain more. Ultimately, however, he was prevailed upon by the entreaties of his friends, and chiefly by those of Mr Mill, to allow his work to be sent to press. Its appearance forms a new era in the history of the science. With the exception of the “ Wealth of Nations,” it is the most important, as it certainly is the most original and profound, work that has appeared on political economy. It must, however, be admitted, that he has not been happy in the exposition of several of his peculiar doctrines ; and the mathematical cast of his reasonings, the intimate dependence of his propositions on each other, and the new sense which he sometimes gives to terms in common use, are apt to repel ordinary readers, and give an appearance of obscurity to the work. But those who study it with the care and attention which it deserves, will find that it is eminently logical ; and the powers
of
mind displayed in its investigations, the dexterity with which the most abstruse and difficult questions are unravelled, the sagacity evinced in tracing the operation of general principles, in disentangling them from such as are of a secondary and accidental nature, and in perceiving and estimating their remotest consequences, have rarely been surpassed, and will for ever secure the name of Ricardo a conspicuous place in the list of profound thinkers, and of the discoverers of useful truths.
The reader will find in the article Political Economy a pretty full account of the leading principles advanced by Mr Ricardo in this work, and of his most material conclusions. It is to be regretted that he relied too much on theoretical reasonings, without making sufficient allowance for the circumstances natural to and inherent in society, which either counteract or materially modify some of the principles on which he laid the greatest stress. But despite the errors into which he thus necessarily fell, his work is of the very highest value. It is the first in which we find an analysis and generally just explanation of the circumstances which determine the distribution of w, ealth among the various ranks and orders of society, and which govern their apparently conflicting but really harmonious relations. Since the appearance of Mr Ricardo’s work the whole face of the science has been changed, not merely by his numerous discoveries, and the new lights which he struck out in every department, but by the closer and more analytical method of reasoning which he introduced. In this respect there is yet, no doubt, much room for improvement ; but any one who compares the economical writings of the last seven years, with those current before Mr Ricardo’s work made its appearance, will be satisfied that there is now much less of loose generalization, and more regard to science and principle. The practical considerations which Mr Ricardo too much neglected have had their proper influence ascertained by subsequent inquirers ; and his doctrines having been properly modified, and made applicable to tlle exigencies of society, have acquired a very high practical as well as theoretical value.
Previously to the publication of his Principles, Mr Ricardo retired wholly from business, with a very large fortune, acquired with the universal respect and esteem of his competitors. He afterwards spent the greater part of the summer at Gatcomb Park, an estate which he had purchased in Gloucestershire. But he did not retire from the bustle of active life to the mere enjoyment of his acres—
Nonfuit consilium socordia atque desidia bonum otium conterere
—he had other objects in view ; and while his leisure hours, when in the country, were chiefly devoted to the prosecution of the interesting science of which he was now confessedly at the head, he determined to extend the sphere of his usefulness by entering the House of Commons. In 1819 he took his seat as member for Portarlington. His diffidence of his own powers had, however, nearly deprived the country of the important services which he rendered in this situation. In a letter to one of his friends, dated the 7th of April 1819, he says, “ You will have seen that I have taken my seat in the House of Commons. I fear that I shall be of little use there. I have twice attempted to speak ; but I proceeded in the most embarrassed manner ; and I have no hope of conquering the alarm with which I am assailed tlle moment I hear the sound of my own voice.” And in a letter to the same gentleman, dated the 22d of June 1819, he says, “ I thank you for your endeavours to inspire me with confidence on the occasion of my addressing the house. Their indulgent reception of me has, in some degree, made the task of speaking more easy to me; but there are yet so many formidable obstacles to my success, and some, I fear, of a nature nearly insurmountable, that I apprehend it will be wisdom and sound discretion in me to content myself with giving silent votes.” Fortunately he did not adopt this resolution. The difficulties with which he had at first to struggle, and his diffidence in himself, gradually subsided ; while the integrity of his character, the mildness of his manners, and the perfect mastery which he possessed over the subjects on which he spoke, and the unquestionable purity and disinterestedness of his intentions, speedily secured him a very extensive and powerful influence both in the house and the country, and gave the greatest weight and authority to his opinions.
Mr Ricardo was not one of those who make speeches to suit the temporary and ephemeral circumstances and politics of the day ; he spoke only from principle, and with a fixed resolution never to diverge in the smallest degree from the path which it pointed out ; he neither concealed nor modified an opinion for the purpose of conciliating the favour, or of disarming the prejudices or hostility, of any man or set of men ; nor did he ever make a speech or give a vote which he was not thoroughly convinced was founded on just principles, and calculated to promote the true and lasting interests of the public. Trained to habits of profound thinking, independent in his fortune, and inflexible in his principles, Mr Ricardo had nothing in common with the vulgar tribe of party politicians. His country’s good was the single and only object of his parliamentary exertions ; and he laboured to promote it, not by engaging in party cabals, which he detested, but by supporting the rights and liberties of all classes, and by explaining and unfolding tile true sources of national wealth and public prosperity.
The change which has taken place in the public opinion respecting the financial and commercial policy of the country, since the period when Mr Ricardo obtained a seat in tlm House of Commons, is as complete as it is gratifying.
