of chilly weather, being more than any other class of creatures under the influence of temperature,—“ frigida æstu-antium animalia ;” and what is truly singular, is the fact mentioned by Humboldt, that the inverse cause produces a corresponding effect on some of the species of tropical climates, the caymans or crocodiles of South America becoming torpid, and entombing themselves in mud, during the prevalence of the hottest season.
Indeed, among the more singular features in the economy of the reptile race, may be numbered their power of enduring long-continued abstinence, and the lethargic state, infinitely more profound than the winter sleep of quadrupeds, into which they yearly fall. In connection with this subject, Mr Jacobson of Copenhagen has recognised in reptiles a special arrangement of certain vessels which constitute a peculiar
venous system.
This system may be said to exist more or less in all the race ; but, rudimentary in the tortoises and crocodiles, it shows its chief development among the other Saurians, and the Ophidian and Batrachian groups. “ It is composed of the veins of the abdominal members, the pelvian or caudal veins, the hinder veins of the kidneys, the veins of the oviductus, a great portion of the veins of the skin, of those of the muscles of the abdomen, and of those of certain organs peculiar to the reptiles. These veins combine, and form one or many trunks, which proceed either into the vena porta or the liver, or into both. What especially distinguishes this system is, that in it a part of the veins of the organs of locomotion, and of the skin, proceed to distribute themselves into the liver. There is no other example of tllis among the vertebrated animals. Certain special organs appear connected with this venous system in a peculiar manner, and are regarded by Mr Jacobson as proper for secreting and preserving a nutritive juice, destined to be re-absorbed in the rigorous months of the severe season, during the hybernal slumber of these animals.”@@1
In regard to the geographical distribution of reptiles in general, we shall here briefly observe, that they augment in number as we advance towards the equatorial regions. While Sweden possesses scarcely a dozen snakes and lizards, about three or four frogs and toads, and not a single tortoise, the temperate parts of Europe produce about forty snakes and lizards, and several of the tortoise tribe. In Scandinavia, however, although the species are so few in number, the individuals are much more abundant than in Britain ; from which we infer, that it is rather the want of strong continuous summer heat than the actuality of our winter’s cold, that is unfavourable to the production of reptiles in our cloudy clime. As soon as we gain the southern extremity of Spain, the number of species in these tribes greatly increases, and in Andalusia the African complexion of the country is still further manifested by tlle frequent appearance of the chameleon. On proceeding further south, not only does the number of reptiles increase, but they also augment in size, splendour, and ferocity, till from the Tropic of Cancer onwards and beyond the line, we meet with crocodiles, caymans, boas, and other giants of the reptile race. Several species, however, even in sultry latitudes, are subjected by their peculiar position to the influence of severe cold. Thus the
axolotl
of Mexico occurs in the chill waters of lakes elevated above 8000 feet from the surface of the sea ; and the salamander (a water newt) of Europe is frequently found frozen up in ice in early spring, without being destroyed. Indeed, Dufay has remarked, as a singular circumstance, that those very animals of which it. once was fabled they could withstand the fiery flames, are in reality endowed with the almost equally surprising power of resisting frost, so generally fatal to the life of reptiles.
Although we have now endeavoured to state a few of what may be regarded as the generalities of the reptile class, ' yet it must be borne in mind, that no great division of the animal kingdom exhibits such a singular diversity of form and aspect, or is more liable to exceptions from whatever features we may incline to consider as general characteristics. “ Aussi les reptiles,” says Baron Cuvier, “ presentent-ils des formes, des mouvements, et des propriétés beaucoup plus variés que les deux classes précédentes (quadrupeds and birds) ; et c’est surtout dans leur production que la nature semble s’être jouée à imaginer des formes bizarres, et à modifier dans tous les sens possibles le plan général qu’elle a suivi pour les animaux vertébrés, et spécialement pour les classes ovipares.” Among no animals indeed do we meet with beings of more singular forms than in the class Keptilia, many of which exhibit an aspect so unusual, so grotesque, and even so formidable, that it would be difficult for the imagination of the poet or the painter to exceed the “ dread realities” of nature. Although the majority are oviparous, some, as we have said, produce their young alive. Many have four legs, some only two, which vary from an anterior to a posterior pair, while the entire tribe of serpents have no legs at all. Some have their bodies more or less closely beset by scales, varying in size from extreme tenuity to the strength and thickness of mailed armour ; many, as the numerous tribes of frogs, are defended only by a soft and mucous skin ; as many more are shut up in a strong bony box-like covering, within w hich they dwell, as in an impregnable castle. The greater number possess a tail, but several entirely want that organ. Numerous tribes live unceasingly in the water, others pass their infancy in moist abodes, their maturer years on terra firma, provided in the former case with gills, in the latter with lungs for respiration. Marshes and muddy swamps, the dry and desert sands, the umbrageous woods, the upland mountains, the “ resounding shores,” are all alike pervaded by one or many of the numerous forms of reptile life. The subterranean proteus fears the light, though dealing in no deeds of darkness ; the agile lizard, “ all scaled silver bright,” basks delighted beneath the beams of the most brilliant sun, “ no cloud in heaven.” Some are fierce and carnivorous, others gentle and herbivorous. The most deadly poison is distilled by many, while entire tribes are quite innocuous ; and while some are resplendent in burnished gold and azure, “ like mailed angels on a battle-day,” as many exhibit the last stage of ugliness in
worse
Than fables yet have feigned or fear conceived,
Gorgons, and hydras, and chimeras dire.
It has been observed, that in the popular superstitions of various countries, the reptile race have been almost always clothed in revolting attributes, and that the worship accorded them was one not of gratitude, but fear.8 Victor or vanquished, they seem ever to have borne a cruel and pestilential character, in opposition to the welfare of the human race ; and the prowess both of gods and men was called into frequent and vigorous exercise for their subduction. “ Glorious Apollo” pursued the enormous Python with his unerring shafts ; the dreadful Acheloiis w∙as strangled by the son of Jove, in spite of folds “ voluminous and vast ;” the Hesperian gardens and the golden fleece were protected by fierce dragons ; Perseus, from the dripping head of Medusa, sowed with serpents the arid Libyan sands; and gorgons and furies, discord and envy, are armed by the poets with snakes, “ as appropriate emblems of their ministry of vengeance.”
It was chiefly on the comparative consideration of thc amount of respiration, and of the organs of movement, that
1
@@@ Griffith’s Animal Kingdom, ix. 182.    2 ibid, 20.
