tainous district, containing two cities, sixteen market-towns, with many villages and hamlets, and 65,750 inhabitants. The capital is the city ofthe same name situated on the river Belino, near its junction with the Turano. It contains ten parish churches, five monasteries, seven nunneries, and 9270 inhabitants, who subsist chiefly by the trade in silk, and by tanning and currying leather. Long. 12. 46. 50. E. Lat. 42. 24. 25. N.
RIGA, a city of the province of Livonia, a part of the Russian empirt in Europe. It is the capital of a circle of the same name as well as of the province. Tbe circle extends over 4180 square miles, and contains, in two cities, one market-town, and thirty-nine parishes, about 150,000 inhabitants. The city of Riga, called in the language of Esthonia
Riolin,
and in that of Livonia
Righo,
is situated on the right bank of the river Duna or Dwina, about seven miles from its entrance into the Baltic. As a barrier on the western frontier of Russia, it is strongly fortified, both on the land and the sea side. It is composed of large old houses, and of narrow crooked streets ill paved. The principal public buildings are the palace of the governor, the barracks, and the tow n-hall, used now’ as the exchange. It contains 1240 private dwellings, with about 30,000 inhabitants, exclusive of the garrison. The people are mostly of the German race, and their language is far more common than that of Russia or of Livonia. The Germans have four Lutheran and one reformed church ; and there are three Greek churches for the Russians and the troops. Thecity formerly was one of the Hanse Towms, and has now considerable export trade in the raw materials which are produced in the extended districts through which the river passes. At some seasons England draws much corn from this place. It has some considerable establishments for making leather, sail-cloth, linen, and some iron, steel, and other metallic articles. It imports large quantities of fruit, beer, wine, salt, sugar, tea, coffee, spices, and manufactured clothing. It has several institutions for education, and many for the relief of poverty, age, aud sickness. Long. 23. 57. 10. E. Lat. 56. 56. 32. N.
RIGADOON, a gay and brisk dance, borrowed originally from Provence in France, and performed in figure
by
a man and a w, oman.
RIGGING
of a Ship,
a general name given to all the ropes employed to support the mas⅛, and to extend or reduce the sails, or arrange them to the disposition of the wind. The former, which are used to sustain the masts, remain usually in a fixed position, and are called
standing rigging ;
such are the shrouds, stays, and backstays. The latter, whose office is to manage the sails, by communicating with various blocks or pulleys situated in different parts of the masts, yards, shrouds, &c. are comprehended in the general term of
running rigging.
Such are the braces, sheets, haliards, clue-lines, and brails.
RIGHT, in
Geometry,
signifies the same with straight ; thus, a straight line is called a
right
one.
Right is a title conferred, 1. together with
Reverend,
upon all bishops ; 2. together with
Honourable,
upon earls, viscounts, and barons ; 3. by courtesy, together with
Honourable,
upon the sons of dukes, marquises, and the eldest sons of earls ; 4. together with
Honourable,
upon the speaker of the House of Commons, but upon no other commoner excepting those who are members of her majesty’s most honourable privy council, and the three lords mayors of London, York, and Dublin, and the lord provost of Edinburgh, during their office.
RIGHTS, in the common acceptation of the word, are of various kinds ; they are
natural
or
adventitious, alienable 
or
unalienable, perfect
or
imperfect, particular
or
general.
Natural
rights are those which a man has to his life, limbs, and liberty ; to the produce of his personal labour ; to the use, in common with others, of air, light, and water.
That every man has a natural right or just claim to these things, is evident from their being absolutely necessary to enable him to answer that purpose, whatever it may be, for which he was made a living and a rational being. This shows undeniably that the Author of his nature designed that he should have the use of them, and that the man who should wantonly deprive him of any one of them, would be guilty of a breach of the divine law, as well as act inconsistently with the fitness of things in every sense in which that phrase can possibly be understood.
Adventitious
rights are those which a king has over his subjects, a general over his soldiers, a husband to the person and affections of his wife, and which every man has to the greater part of his property. The important question is, how are adventitious rights acquired? In answer to this question, the moralist who deduces the laws of virtue from the will of God, observes, that as God appears from his works to be a benevolent Being who wills the happiness of all his creatures, he must of course will every thing which naturally tends to promote that happiness. But the existence of civil society evidently contributes in a great degree to promote the sum of human happiness ; and therefore whatever is necessary for the support of civil society in general, or for the conduct of particular societies already established, must be agreeable to the will of God : but the allegiance of subjects to their sovereign, the obedience of soldiers to their leader, the protection of private property, and the fulfilling of contracts, are all absolutely necessary to the support of society ; and hence the rights of kings, generals, husbands, and wives, &c. though adventitious, and immediately derived from human appointments, are not less sacred than natural rights, since they may all be ultimately traced to the same source. The same conclusion may easily be drawn by the philosopher, who rests moral obligation on tlle fitness of things, or on a moral sense ; only it must in each of these cases partake of the instability of its foundation.
Rights, besides being natural or adventitious, are likewise
alienable
or
Vmalisnable.
Every man, when he becomes the member of a civil community, alienates a part of his natural rights. In a state of nature, no man has a superior on earth, and each has a right to defend his life, liberty, and property, by all tlle means which nature has put in his power. In civil society, however, these rights are all transferred to the laws and the magistrate, except in cascs of such extreme urgency as leave not time for legal interposition. This single consideration is sufficient to show that the right to civil liberty is alienable ; though, in the vehemence of men’s zeal for it, and in the language of some political remonstrances, it has often been pronounced to be an unalienable right. “ The true reason,” says Paley, “ why mankind hold in detestation the memory of those who have sold their liberty to a tyrant is, that, together with their own, they sold commonly or endangered the liberty of others; of which they had certainly no right to dispose.” The rights of a prince over his people, and of a husband over his wife, arc generally and naturally unalienable.
Another division of rights is into those which are
perfect
and those which are
imperfect.
Perfect rights are such as may be precisely ascertained and asserted by force, or in civil society by the course of law. To imperfect rights neither force nor law is applicable. A man’s rights to his life, person, and property, are all perfect ; for if any of these be attacked, he may repel the attack by instant violence, punish tile aggressor by thc course of law, or compel the author of the injury to make restitution or satisfaction. A woman’s right to her honour is likewise perfect ; for if she cannot otherwise escape, she may kill the ravisher. Every poor man has undoubted right to relief from the rich ; but his right is imperfect, for if the relief be not voluntarily given, he cannot compel it either by law or by violence. There is
