as well as its most effectual support. He encouraged learned and pious men of foreign countries Io settle in England, and addressed a particular invitation to Martin Bucer and Paul Fagius, whose moderation added a lustre to their other virtues ; in hopes that, by the ministry and labours of these eminent men, in concert with those of the friends of the Reformation in England, he might purge his dominions from the fictions of Popery, and establish in their room the pure doctrines of Christianity. For this purpose, he issued the wisest orders for the restoration of true religion ; but his reign was too short to accomplish fully such a glorious purpose. In the year 1553, he was taken from his loving and afflicted subjects, whose sorrow was great, and suited to their loss. His sister Mary, the daughter of Catharine of Aragon, from whom Henry had been divorced, blindly bigoted to the Church of Rome, and a princess whose natural character, like the spirit of her religion, was despotic and cruel, succeeded him on the throne, and imposed anew the arbitrary laws and the tyrannical yoke of Rome upon the people of England. Nor were the methods which she employed in the cause of superstition better than the cause itself, or tempered by any sentiments of equity or compassion. Barbarous tortures, and death in the most shocking forms, awaited those who opposed her will, or made the least stand against the restoration of Popery. And amongst many other victims, tlle learned and pious Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury, who had been one of the most efficient instruments of the Reformation in England, fell a sacrifice to her fury. But this odious scene of persecution was happily concluded in the year 1558, by the death of the queen, who left no issue ; and, as soon as her successor Elizabeth ascended the throne, all things assumed a new aspect. The glorious period of this reign was alike eminent for religious knowledge and for daring genius, for civil prosperity and for martial glory. Elizabeth, whose sentiments, and councils, and projects, breathed a spirit superior to the natural softness and delicacy of her sex, exerted this vigorous and masculine spirit in the defence of oppressed conscience and expiring liberty ; broke anew the despotic yoke of papal authority and superstition ; and, delivering her people from the bondage of Rome, established that form of religious doctrine and ecclesiastical government which still subsists in. England. This religious establishment differed in some respects from the plan which had been formed by those whom Edward VI. had employed for promoting the cause of the Reformation, and approached nearer to the rites and discipline of former times; though it is.widely different, and, in the most important points, entirely opposite to the principles of the Roman Catholic hierarchy.
The cause of the Reformation underwent in Ireland the same vicissitudes and revolutions which had attended it in England. When Henry VIII. after the abolition of the papal authority, was declared supreme head of the Church of England upon earth, George Brown, a native of England, and a monk of the Augustinian order, whom that monarch had created, in the year 1535, Archbishop of Dublin, began to act with the utmost vigour in consequence of this change in the hierarchy. He purged the churches within his diocese from superstition in all its various forms ; pulled dow n images ; destroyed relics ; abolished absurd and idolatrous rites ; and, by the influence as well as authority he had obtained in Ireland, caused the king’s supremacy to be acknowledged in that nation. Henry soon afterwards showed that this supremacy was by no means a vain title ; for he banished the monks out of that kingdom, confiscated their revenues, and destroyed their convents. In the reign of Edward VI. Still further progress was made in the removal of popish superstitions, by the zealous labours of Bishop Brown, and the auspicious encouragement he granted to all who exerted themselves in the cause of the Reformation. The death 
of
this young prince, however, and the accession of Queen
Mary, had nearly changed the face of affairs in Ireland as much as in England ; but her designs were disappointed by a very curious adventure, of which the following account has been copied from the papers of Richard earl of Cork.
“ Queen Mary having dealt severely with the Protestants in England, about the latter end of her reign signed a commission for to take the same course with them in Ireland ; and to execute the same with greater force, she nominates Dr Cole one of the commissioners. The doctor coming, with the commission, to Chester on his journey, the mayor of that city, hearing that her majesty was sending a messenger into Ireland, and he being a churchman, waited on the doctor, who in discourse with the mayor taketh out of a cloke-bag a leather box, saying unto him, Here is a commission that shall lash the heretics of Ireland, calling the Protestants by that title. The good woman of the house being well affected to the Protestant religion, and also having a brother named John Edmonds of the same persuasion, then a citizen in Dublin, was much troubled at the doctor’s words; but watching her convenient time, while the mayor took his leave, and the doctor complimented him down the stairs, she opens the box, takes the commission out, and places in lieu thereof a sheet of paper with a pack of cards wrapt up therein, the knave of clubs being faced uppermost. The doctor coming up to his chamber, suspecting nothing of what had been done, put up the box as formerly. The next day going to the water-side, wind and weather serving him, he sails towards Ireland, and landed on the 7th of October 1558 at Dublin. Then coming to the castle, the Lord Fitzwalters being lord-deputy, sent for him to come before him and the privy-council ; who, coming in, after he had made a speech relating upon what account he came over, he presents the box unto the lord-deputy ; who causing it to be opened, that the secretary might read the commission, there was nothing save a pack of cards with the knave
of
clubs uppermost ; which not only startled the lord-deputy and council, but the doctor, who assured them he had a commission, but knew not how it was gone. Then the lord-deputy made answer : Let us have another commission, and we will shuffle the cards in the meanwhile. The doctor being troubled in his mind, went away, and returned into England, and coming to the court obtained another commission : but staying for a wind on the waterside, new, s came to him that the queen was dead ; and thus God preserved the Protestants of Ireland.” Queen Elizabeth was so delighted with this story, which was related to her by Lord Fitzwalter on his return to England, that she sent for Elizabeth Edmonds, whose husband’s name was Mattershad, and gave her a pension
of
forty pounds a year during her life.
In Scotland, the seeds of the Reformation were very early ] sown, by several noblemen who had resided in Germany! during the religious disputes there. But for many years it!  was suppressed by the power of the pope, seconded by severe law's and not a few executions. The most eminent opponent of the papal jurisdiction was John Knox, a disciple of Calvin, and a man of great zeal and invincible fortitude. On all occasions he raised the drooping spirits of the reformers, and encouraged them to go on with their work, notwithstanding the opposition and treachery of the queen-regent; until at last, in 1561, by the assistance of an English army sent by Elizabeth, Popery was in a manner totally extirpated from every part of the kingdom. From this period the form of doctrine, worship, and discipline established by Calvin at Geneva, has had the ascendency in Scotland.
For further information on the subject of the Reformation in general, we refer our readers to the works of Burnet and Brandt ; to Beausobre’s
Histoire de la Reformation dans FEmpire, et les Etats de la Confession d’Augsbourg, depuis 
1517-1530, Berlin, 1785, in four vols. 8vo ; and Mosheim’s Ecclesiastical History. See also Sleidan
De Statu Religi-
