R
or
r,
a liquid consonant, being the seventeenth letter of
5
our alphabet. Its sound is formed by a guttural extrusion of breath vibrated through the mouth, with a sort of quivering motion of the tongue drawn from the teeth, and canulated with the tip a little elevated towards the palate. In Greek words it is frequently aspirated with an
h
after it, as in
rhapsody, rhetoric,
and so forth ; otherwise it is always followed by a vowel at the beginning of words and syllables.
In the notes of the ancients, R. or RO. signifies
Roma,
R. C.
Romana civitas;
R. G. C.
rei gerendœ causa;
R. F. E. D.
recte factum et dictum;
R. G. F.
regisfllius;
R. P. 
res publica,
or
Romani principes,
and R. R. R. F. F. F.
res Romana ruet ferro, fame, flamma.
Used as a numeral, R anciently stood for 80; and with a dash over it thus κ, for 80,000 ; but the Greek
τ, ρ',
with a small mark over it, signified 100 ; with the same mark under it, it denoted 1000 × 10 ; thus
pl
signifies 100,000. In the Hebrew numeration 1 denoted 200 ; and with two horizontal points over it 1000 × 200; thus'S=200,000. Intheprescriptions of physicians, R or R stands for
recipe,
that is, “ take.”
RAAB, a city of the Austrian kingdom of Hungary, in the province of the hither Danube, the capital of a circle of the same name, and of the mouth of the Raab. It is well built, and contains 1540 houses, with 14,000 inhabitants. It is the seat of a Catholic bishop, and of an academy with ten professors, and of several normal schools. The chief employment consists in making woollen goods, and its chief trade arises from its fairs. Lat. 47. 41. 15. Long. 27. 31. 13. E.
RABANA, a sort of drum used in India as an accompaniment to the voice in singing.
RABASTENS, a city of France, in the department of the Tarn, and arrondisement of Caillac. It is situated on the right bank of the river Tarn, and is but poorly built, but in 1836 it contained 6966 inhabitants, who were employed in making woollen cloths, and produciug some good wine. Lat. 43. 50. Long. 1. 37. E.
RABBETTING, in
Carpentry,
the planing or cutting of channels or grooves. In ship-carpentry, it signifies the letting in of the planks of the ship into the keel, which, in the rake and run of a ship, is hollowed away, that the planks may join the closer.
RABBIS, or Rabbin, a title which the Pliarisees and doctors of the law amongst the Jews assumed, and which literally signifies “ masters.” There were several gradations before they arrived at the dignity of rabbin, which was not con- ferred until they had acquired the profoundest knowledge of the law and the traditions. It does not, however, appear that there was any fixed age or previous examination necessary ; but when a man had distinguished himself by his skill in the written and traditional law, and passed through the subordinate degrees, he was saluted as rabbi by the public voice. Amongst the modern Jews, for nearly seven hundred years past, the learned men retain no other title than that of rabbin ; they have great respect paid them, and the first places or seats in the synagogues ; they determine all matters of controversy, and frequently pronounce upon civil affairs ; and they have even power to excommunicate the disobedient.
RABBINISTS, amongst the modern Jews, an appellation given to the doctrine of the rabbin concerning traditions, in opposition to the Caraites, who reject all traditions.
RABELAIS, Dr. Francis, immortalized by his Romance of
Gargantua and Pantagruel,
was born at Chinon, a little town of Touraine, in 1483. His father, Thomas Rabelais, is generally understood to have been an apothecary of that town, and proprietor of the farm of La Devi-nière in the neighbourhood, where, it is said, a great part of the romance was written. According to some biographers, however, he was a vintner in Chinon, and kept a cabaret there at the sign of the Lamprey. The probability is, that he combined both occupations, dealing in drugs and spices, “ and other things of great price ;” and also disposing of the wine produced upon his own property, a traffic very different in its nature from that suggested by the modern ideas of an apothecary and keeper of a cabaret. He was unquestionably a man of substance, and able to procure for his son an education of as high a character as was then to be obtained. He sent him to be educated by the monks of Seville, an abbey not far from Chinon, but the boy’s progress under their care was so unpromising, as to occasion his removal to the University of Angers, where he studied for some time at the convent of La Baumette, but apparently with no greater proficiency than before. It was at this esta-
