Population of the Counties and County Towns.
Counties.
Population
1820.
Population
1830.
County Towns.
Population
1830.
Distan
Providence.
:e from Washington.
35,786
15,771
15,687
10,228
5,637
47,014
16,534
15,414
12,784
5,466
Providence.....................
16,832
8,010
3,663
1,591
3,054
394
Newport.........................
30
403
31
389
East Greenwich................
15
406
15
409
83,109
97,212
Newport, which shares metropolitan honours with the capital, being the seat of government every alternate session, is beautifully situated on the south-west end of the island of Rhode Island, five miles from the sea, and in latitude 4L 29. north, and longitude 71. 21. west. The town lies north and south, upon a gradual ascent east from the water, and exhibits a beautiful view from the harbour and the neighbouring hills. The principal street is more than a mile in length. The harbour, which spreads westward in front of the town, is one of the finest in the world, and spacious enough to allow a large fleet to anchor and ride in perfect security. The entrance is safe and easy, and it is defended by three strong forts. Newport contains a state-house, a jail, several banks and insurance offices, a valuable public library, and houses of worship for most of the religious denominations that are found in New England. A very elegant building is appropriated to the library. This town is famous for the salubrity of its climate, and more noted than any other American town for tlle variety and excellence of its fresh fish. Newport was first settled in 1636, and before the American revolution had attained to considerable commercial importance. During that war it suffered severely, being for a long time occupied by the British. It maintains some trade with the East Indies, Europe, and Cuba ; but the most important branch of its commerce is the coasting trade with the middle and southern states. Its fisheries are very valuable. The population of Newport in 1839 may be estimated at about 10,000.
Pawtucket is a flourishing town, partly situated in that part of this state called North Providence, partly in Massachusetts. It is noted for the number and extent of its manufactories, which are situated near a fine cascade on the river Pawtucket. This town contains several public buildings, two or three banks, more than twelve cotton factories, and as many others of different kinds. This is reckoned one of the most flourishing manufacturing villages in the United States. The population may be about 5000. Bristol is a neat commercial town, situated on the east side of Narragansett Bay. It has a safe and commodious harbour, owns a good deal of shipping, and is a place of considerable trade. The population at present ( 1839) may be about 4000. Warren, South Kingston, East Greenwich, Smithfield, Portsmouth, and Warwick, are the only other places of any note. The last-named town contains above 6000 inhabitants.
The settlement of this state was commenced at Providence in the year 1636, by Roger Williams, a person of some celebrity in the annals of America. He was banished from Massachusetts on account of the religious doctrines which he preached. Two years afterwards the settlement of the island of Rhode Island was begun. In 1643 Williams went to England, and in the following year obtained a charter by which Rhode Island and Providence Plantations were united under one government. This writ continued in force till 1663, when a new charter was granted by Charles II., and this document has ever since formed the
basis of the government. This state is the only one in the Union which is without a written constitution, according to the American form of these things. The legislative power is vested in a general assembly, consisting of a senate and a house of representatives. The latter consists of seventy-two members, six from Newport, four from each of the towns of Providence, Portsmouth, and Warwick, and two from each of the other towns in the state. They are elected semi-annually in April and August. The senate consists of ten members, who are elected annually in April. The executive power is vested in a governor ; and a lieutenant-governor is elected along with him, on whom the duties of the executive devolve in case of the office of governor being vacated. The other officers of government are a secretary of state, a treasurer, and an attorney-general. The general assembly meets four times a year; at Newport on the first Wednesday in May, at the same place in June ; at Providence and South Kingston alternately in October; and in January at East Greenwich, Bristol, or Providence. The judiciary power is vested in a supreme court, and a court of common pleas for each of the five counties. AU the judges are appointed annually by the general assembly. A chief justice and two associate justices preside in the supreme court. Each of the courts of common pleas comprises five judges. Rhode Island has a well-constituted militia force, which is called out for duty twice a year.    (r. r. r.)
RHODES, an island celebrated from the remotest antiquity as the seat of commerce and of naval power, as well as of literature and the arts ; but now reduced from its ancient splendour to a state of extreme depression and poverty, by the devastations of war and the tyranny of its Turkish rulers. It is situated in the Mediterranean, near the coast of Asia Minor, and is about twelve leagues long from north to south, and about six broad. It is of a triangular form ; and its circumference is commonly estimated at about forty-four leagues.
The island is diversified in its surface, and contains in its centre an elevated mountain named Artemira1 which commands a view of the whole island. It is so steep that it is impossible to ascend it on horseback, and a person clambering up on foot would not be able to reach the summit in less than four hours. From this height there is a most extensive prospect of the whole island around its base ; of the elevated coast of Caramania on the north ; on the northwest the Archipelago, studded with its numerous islands ; on the south-west is seen Mount Ida, veiled in clouds ; and on the south and south-east the vast expanse of waters which wash the African shore. Here and there on the island are seen ranges of moderately elevated hills, on which are found numbers of ancient pines, planted by the hand of nature : these forests were formerly very thick, but they are now greatly thinned by the Turks, who cut them down, and take no care to plant others in their place. On the farther side of this nearest range of hills the surface of the island falls lower, and several hills in the form of amphitheatres extend their bases as far as the sea. In more than half the island
