tribes of three or four hundred, are wonderfully gentle (I speak as an eye-witness), and appear to have some kind of order and subordination in their little sylvan polity.” The festival of Rhama is held on the 9th day of the new moon of Chaitra, on which the war of Lanca is dramatically represented, concluding with an exhibition of the fire-ordeal, by which the victor’s wife Sita gave proof of her connubial fidelity. Amongst the Hindus there is a variety of very fine dramas of great antiquity on the story of Rhama.
There are three Rhamas mentioned in the Indian mythology, who, together with Krishna, the darling god of the Indian women, are described as youths of perfect beauty. The third Rhama is Krishna’s elder brother, and is considered as the eighth Avatar, invested with an emanation of his divine radiance. Like all the Avatars, Rhama is painted with gemmed Ethiopian or Parthian coronets ; with rays encircling his head, jewels in his ears, two necklaces, one straight and one pendant on his bosom, with dropping gems; garlands of well-disposed many-coloured flowers, or collars of pearls, hanging down below his waist ; loose mantles of golden tissue or dyed silk, embroidered on the hems with flowers, elegantly thrown over one shoulder, and folded like ribbands across the breast ; with bracelets, two on one arm and on each wrist. All the Avatars are naked to the waist, and uniformly with dark azure flesh, in allusion probably to the tint of that primordial fluid on which Narayan moved in the beginning of time ; but their skirts are bright yellow, the colour of the curious pericarpium in the centre of the water-lily.
RHAPSODI, Rhapsodists, in
Antiquity,
persons who made a business of singing pieces of HomePs poems. It has been said that the rhapsodi were clothed in red when they sung the Iliad, and in blue when they sung the Odyssey. They performed on the theatres, and sometimes strove for prizes in contests of poetry and singing. After the two antagonists had finished their parts, the two pieces or papers they were written in were soon joined together again, and hence the name, from gαwrω,
suo,
and α
∣
3jj,
canticum. 
But there seem to have been other rhapsodi of more antiquity than these people, wr ho composed heroic poems or songs in praise of heroes and great men, and sung their own compositions from town to town for a livelihood ; of which profession Homer himself is said to have been a member. See Homer.
RHAPSODOMANCY, an ancient kind of divination performed by pitching on a passage of a poet at hazard, and reckoning on it as a prediction of what was to come to pass. There were various ways of practising this rhapsodomancy. Sometimes they wrote several papers or sentences of a poet on so many pieces of wood, paper, or the like, shook them together in an urn, and drew out one, which was accounted the lot. Sometimes they cast dice on a table whereon verses were written, and that upon which the die lodged contained the prediction. A third manner was by opening a book, and pitching on some verse at first sight. This method they particularly called the
sortes Prœnestinœ ;
and afterwards, according to the poet, made use of
sortes Homerica, sortes Virgilianœ,
&c.
RHAPSODY, in
Antiquity,
a discourse in verse, sung or rehearsed by a rhapsodist. Others conceive rhapsody to signify a collection of verses, especially those of Homer,
which having been a long time dispersed in pieces and fragments, were at length by Pisistratus’s order digested into books called
rhapsodies,
from gα<rrω,
suo,
and ω⅛ιj,
canticum. 
Hence, amongst modems,
rhapsody
is also used for an assemblage of passages, thoughts, and authorities, raked together from divers authors, to compose some newτ piece.
RHEIMS, an arrondissement of the department of the Marne, in France, 692 square miles in extent. It comprehends ten cantons, divided into 181 communes, and in 1836 contained 123,919 inhabitants. The capital is the city of the same name. It stands in a pleasing district on the river Bisle. It is surrounded with walls, not for defence, but converted into agreeable promenades. It is a city of well-built and large houses, some open places, but in general of narrow streets, well paved. The chief object of attention is the fine Gothic cathedral, in which the kings of France during many generations were crowned. It is 450 feet in length, ninety-five in breadth, and IlO in height. The portico is beautiful, and the interior presents a magnificence in its architecture, which is so combined with simplicity as to produce a wonderful impression on the spectator. It suffered injury during the revolution, but the damages have in some degree been repaired. The palace of the archbishop and some other ecclesiastical buildings are very fine. This city has a lyceum, three hospitals, and 38,359 inhabitants, who carry on considerable manufactures of woollen goods of various kinds, and in shawls of mixed substances. It is also a place of commerce, and is the principal mart for champagne wine. Long. 3.56.3. E. Lat. 49. 15. 16. N.
RHEINBACH, a town of the Prussian government of Cologne, the capital of a circle of the same name, which extends over seventy square miles, and contains 23,500 inhabitants. The towr n is situated on the river Erft, is ill built, with 250 houses, and 1500 inhabitants.
RHEINBERG, a town of the Prussian government of Cleves, the capital of a circle of the same name, which extends over 210 square miles, comprehending nine cities and towns, and thirty-six villages, with 38,200 inhabitants. The town is situated on a brook about one mile from the Rhine, was once fortified, but its defences have been neglected. It contains 430 houses, with 2250 inhabitants, partly employed in making cloths, and partly in the fishery on the Rhine. Long. 6. 29. 26. E. Lat. 51. 33. 17. N.
RHETORES, amongst the Athenians, were ten in number, elected by lot to plead public causes in the senate-house or assembly. For every cause in which they were retained they received a drachm out of the public money. They were sometimes called Suwjyofoi, and their fee τ∙o ∑uwiχoj∕xev. No man was admitted to this office until he was forty years of age, though others say thirty. Valour in war, filial piety to parents, prudence in their affairs, frugality and temperance, were necessary qualifications for this office, and every candidate underwent an examination concerning these virtues previous to the election. Thc orators at Rome were not unlike the Athenian
rhetores.
RHETORIANS, a sect of heretics in Egyjlt, so denominated from Rhetorius, their leader. The distinguishing tenet of this heresiarch, as represented by Philastrius1 was, that he approved of all the heresies before him, and taught that they were all in the right.
