his letters, where certainly a light or ribald mind was most ∙, likely to have shown itself, there is nothing to be found unworthy of the scholar and the churchman. These facts are utterly inconsistent with the charges of buffoonery, immorality, and irréligion, which are usually coupled with his name ; and who can doubt, that, had his life given any warrant for such charges, there were jealous enemies enough to have placed the fact beyond the uncertainty of mere as
sertion ?
In common with the other great assailants of religious abuses, Rabelais was branded with the names of heretic and atheist, and the Dedication of the Fourth Book of his Romance makes an indignant allusion to the circumstance. Epithets like these, however, he could well afford to share with such men as Erasmus, Luther, and Melancthon. Had he escaped them, indeed, there would have heen some cause for wonder ; for, assuredly, the severest blow ever levelled against the Roman Catholic church was the publication of the
Chronicle of the Wondrous Deeds of Gargantua and Pantagruel.
The popularity of its form secured it attention, where a formal censure would have been disregarded ; and it was read on every hand with unexampled avidity. Calvin spoke of part of it with asperity, but others of the reformers, penetrating its real spirit, gave it their warmest approval, and Beza’s well-known epigram has long graced every edition of the book.
Qin
sic nugatur, tractantem ut seria vincat,
Cum seria fa
ci
et dic, rogo, q
uantu
s e
rit ?
If be, wbo in bi
s
frolic mood
Outdoes the lore of toilsome sages,
Sbould don grave wisdom's reverend hood,
What might be looked for from his pages ?
“Beyond a doubt,” says Coleridge, “he was among the deepest as well as boldest thinkers of his age. His buffoonery was not merely Brutus’ rough stick, which contained a rod of gold ; it was necessary as an amulet against the monks and bigots. Never was there a more plausible, and seldom, I am persuaded, a less appropriate line, than the thousand times quoted
Rabelais laughing in bis easy cbair
of Mr. Pope. The caricature of his filth and zanyism proves how fully he both knew and felt the danger in which he stood. I could write a treatise in praise of the moral elevation of Rabelais’ work, which would make the church stare, and the conventicle groan, and yet would be the truth, and nothing but the truth. I class Rabelais with the great creative minds of the world, [Homer,] Shakspeare, Dante, Cervantes, &c.” The prevalent coarseness, though this even is not always without its meaning, of Rabelais’ great work, makes it repulsive to the mass of readers ; and this it is, probably, which has enabled modern writers to appropriate its thoughts and witticisms with impunity. But the richness of invention, the dramatic force of the characters, the originality and vigour of thought, the wit, the learning, the satire, poignant yet without cynicism, the wise philosophy, and the atmosphere of triumphant joyousness that invests the whole, justify the praises of Coleridge, and will secure its fame, as long as vice remains to be lashed, and folly to be ridiculed, or the love of genial humour, and far-sighted wisdom is not utterly extinct.
It is impossible not to admire the robust and healthy nature of the mind of Rabelais, which, at a time when earnestness was constantly running into extravagant excesses in the persons of the other great reformers of the period, maintained its equipoise, without losing any of its intensity in seizing and grappling with the predominant abuses. Nor is its moral culture less conspicuous, which, in an age when the face of society presented so much to impress a conviction of the farce and hollowness of the world, preserved him, in despite of his acute sense of the absurd, the false, and the contemptible, as well as of his strong satirical bias, from becoming a morbid and misanthropical reviler of mankind. “ I ask not,” says Coleridge, “ the genius of a Machiavel, a Tacitus, ora Swift; it needs only a worldly experience, and an observing mind, to convince a man of forty, that there is no medium between the creed of misanthropy and that of the gospel.” Which of these, then, was Rabelais ? Most certainly the latter. II,e hates cant in all its shapes, hypocrisy underall its disguises; tyranny, intolerance, villainy, selfishness, and all its brood of tyrant vices, are hisabhorrence ; mere folly he makes his sport, and he dallies with absurdity with a very wantonness. But he never forgets, that he, the satirist, is himself come of the stock of Adam, or libels heaven, by flying in the face of that nature, which, good or bad, is all that himself and his fellow-men have got to struggle through the world with. He takes life as.it is ; he would fain see it better, and lends a helping hand to make it so. Like his great countryman Beranger.
De l’univers observant la machine,
Il
y
voit du mal, et n'aime que le bien.
He detests the evil that is in the world, but he never abandons his faith in the good. His satire is not the angry yelping of a currish nature, the overflow of sour secretions and accumulated bile. Where it is grave, it is the commanding voice of honest indignation ; where jovial, there is a kindliness of tone with it, that makes you like the man, whilst you admire his genius. He is essentially good-natured even in his severest moods ; and this is apparent in the very form of his satire. Its most caustic strokes are given with a merry voice and laughing eye ; and yet, whilst apparently revelling in the most unrestrained ebullitions of mere animal spirits, and licentious fancy, he is covertly stripping sensualism of its enticements, and enforcing the strongest lessons of humility. He possessed, in short, the wisdom of love, which is “ the creed of the gospel,” and this his book testifies in a hundred places. At the same time, its defects are great and manifold, and these cannot be better summed up than in the words of La Bruyère. “ Rabelais is inexcusable in having scattered mere filth throughout his writings. His book is a chimera. It is the face of a beautiful woman with the tail of a serpent, or of some other still more unsightly monster. It is a monstrous jumble of a fine and delicately wrought moral, and of the most offensive grossness. Where it is bad, it is as bad as can be,— the very scum of the world might batten on it ; where it is good, nothing can be more choice or excellent ; it
can
furnish most dainty fare.”
For bibliographical details as to the works of Rabelais, see
Biographie Universelle,
tome xxxvi. A careful memoir of him will be found in Niceron’s
Mémoires des Hommes Illustres,
and also in Chaufiepié’s Supplement to Bayle. Rabelais has been naturalised amongst ourselves, more successfully, perhaps, than any Otherforeign writer, by Sir T-Urqu-hart and Motteux’s admirable version of his romance. (B. F.)
RABBIT. See Mammalia.
RABIRIUS, C., a Roman knight, who lent an immense sum of money to Ptolemy Auletes, king of Egypt. The monarch afterwards not only refused to repay him, but even confined him, and endangered his life. Rabirius escaped with difficulty from Egypt; and at his return to Rome he was accused by the senate of having lent money to an African prince for unlawful purposes. He was ably defended by Cicero, and acquitted with difficulty.
In the age of Augustus, there was a Latin poet of the same name, who wrote a poem on the victory which the emperor had gained over Antony at Actium. Seneca has compared him to Virgil for elegance and majesty ; but Quintilian is not so favourable in judging his poetry.
RABNABAD, a low muddy island in the bay of Bengal, formed out of the sediment deposited by the river Gan-
