square foot, and whose height is two feet. This will not only produce the effect in the same time with the impulsion of the solid body, but it will also do it by the same degrees, as any one will clearly perceive, by attending to the gradual acceleration of the mass of water urged by one fourth of its weight, and comparing this with the gradual production or extinction of motion in the fluid by the progress of the resisted surface.
Now it is well known that eight cubic feet of water, by falling one foot, which it will do in one fourth of a second, will acquire the velocity of eight feet per second by its weight ; therefore the force which produces the same effect in a whole second is one fourth of this. This force is therefore equal to the weight of a column of water whose base is a square foot and whose height is two feet ; that is, twice the height necessary for acquiring the velocity of the motion by gravity. The conclusion is the same whatever be the surface that is resisted, whatever be the fluid that resists, and whatever be the velocity of the motion. In this inductive and familiar manner we learn, that
the direct impulse or resistance of an unelastic fluid on any plane surface, is equal to the weight of a column of the fluid having the surface for its base, and twice the fall necessary for acquiring the velocity of the motion for its height;
and if the fluid is considered as elastic, the impulse or resistance is twice as great. See Newt.
Priecip.
b. ii. prop. 35 and 38.
It now remains to compare this theory with experiment. Numerous experiments have been made ; but it is much to be lamented that, in a matter of such importance, there is so great a disagreement in the results. Those of Sir Isaac Newton were chiefly made by tlle oscillations of pendulums in water, and by the descent of balls both in water and in air. Many were made by Mariotte
(Traité de Mouvement des Eaux).
Gravesande has published, in his
System of Natural Philosophy,
experiments on the resistance or impulsions on solids in the middle of a pipe or canal. They are extremely well contrived, but are on so small a scale that they are of very little use. Daniel Bernoulli, and his pupil Professor Krafft, have published, in the
Comment. Acad. PetropoF
experiments on the impulse of a stream or vein of water from an orifice or tube ; these are of great value. The Abbe Bossut has published others of the same kind in his
Hydrodyriamique.
Mr Robins has published, in his
New Principles of Gunnery,
many valuable experiments on the impulse and resistance of air. The Chevalier de Borda, in the
Mem. Acad, Paris,
1763 and 1767, has given experiments on the resistance of air, and also of water, which are very interesting. The most complete collection of experiments on the resistance of water are those made at the public expense by a committee of the Academy of Sciences at Paris, consisting of the Marquis Condorcet, D’Alembert, the Abbé Bossut, and others. The Chevalier Du Buat, in his 
Hydraulique,
has published some most curious and valuable experiments, where many important subjects are taken notice of, which had never been attended to before, and which give a view of thc subject totally different from what is usually taken of it. Don George d’Ulloa, in his
Examen Maritimo,
has also given some important experiments similar to those adduced by Bouguer in his
Manœuvre des Vaisseaux,
but leading to very different conclusions. All these should be consulted by such as would acquire a practical knowledge of this subject. We must content ourselves with giving their most general results.
1. It is in accordance with experiment that the resistances are proportional to the squares of the velocities. When the velocities of w ater do not exceed a few feet per second, no sensible deviation is observed. In very small velocities the resistances are sensibly greater than in this proportion, and this excess is plainly owing to the viscidity or imperfect fluidity of water. Sir Isaac Newton has shown that the resistance arising from this cause is constant, or the same in every velocity ; and when he deducted a certain part of the total resistance, he found the remainder was very exactly proportionable to the square of the velocity. His experiments for the purpose of ascertaining this point were made with balls a very little heavier than water, so as to descend very slowly ; and they were made with his usual care and accuracy, and may be depended on.
In the experiments made with bodies floating on the surface of water, there is an addition to the resistance arising from the inertia of the water. The water heaps up a little1  on the anterior surface of the floating body, and is depressed behind it. Hence arises a hydrostatical pressure acting in concert with the true resistance. A similar thing is observed in the resistance of air, which is condensed before the body and rarefied behind it, and thus an additional resistance is produced by the unbalanced elasticity of the air, and also because the air which is
actually
displaced is denser than common air. These circumstances cause the resistances to increase faster than the squares of the velocities ; but, even independently of this, there is an additional resistance arising from the tendency to rarefaction behind a body moving very swiftly ; because the pressure of the surrounding fluid can only make the fluid fill the space left with a determined velocity.
We have had occasion to speak of this circumstance more particularly under Gunnery and Pneumatics, when considering very rapid motions. Mr Robins had remarked that the velocity at which the observed resistance of the air began to increase so prodigiously, was that of about IlOO or 1200 feet per second, and that this was the velocity with which air would rush into a void. He concluded that when the velocity was greater than this, the ball was exposed to the additional resistance arising from the unbalanced statical pressure of the air, and that it was necessary to add this constant quantity to the resistance arising from the air’s inertia in all greater velocities. This is very reasonable ; but he imagined that in smaller velocities there was no such unbalanced pressure. But this cannot be the case ; for although in smaller velocities the air will fill up the space behind the body, it will not fill it up with air of the same density, otherwise the motion of the air into the deserted place must be conceived to be instantaneous. There must therefore be a rarefaction behind the body, and a pressure backward arising from unbalanced elasticity, independent of the condensation on the anterior part. The condensation and rarefaction are owing to the same cause, viz. the limited elasticity of the air. Were this infinitely great, the smallest condensation before the body would be instantly diffused through the whole air, and so would the rarefaction, so that no pressure of unbalanced elasticity would be observed ; but the elasticity is such as to propagate the condensation with the velocity of sound only, i. e. the velocity ol 1142 feet per second. ThereSore the additional resistance does not commence precisely at this velocity, but is sensible in all smaller velocities, as is very justly observed by Euler. But we are not yet able to ascertain the law of its increase, although it is a problem which seems susceptible of a tolerably accurate solution.
Precisely similar to this is the resistance to the motion of floating bodies, arising from the accumulation or gorging up of the water on their anterior surface, and its depression behind them. Were the gravity of the water infinite while its inertia remains the same, the wave raised up at the prow of a ship would be instantly diffused over the whole ocean, and it would therefore be infinitely small, as also the depression behind the poop. But this wave requires time for its diffusion ; and while it is not diffused it acts by hydrostatic pressure. We are equally unable to ascertain the law of variation of this part of the resistance, the mechanism of waves being but very imperfectly understood. The height of the wave in the experiments of the French aca∙
