them, which they turn aside, and prevent from striking the surface.
In like manner, when the fluid strikes the edge of a prism or wedge ACB (fig. 7), it cannot be said that any real impulse is made. Nothing hinders us from supposing C to be a mathematical angle or indivisible point, not susceptible of any impulse, and serving merely to divide the stream. Each filament EF is effectually prevented from impinging at G in the line of its direction, and with the obliquity of incidence EGC, by the filaments between EF and DC, which glide along the surface CA ; and it may be supposed to be deflected when it comes to the line CF which bisects the angle DCA, and again deflected and rendered parallel to DC at I. The same thing happens on the other side of DC ; and we cannot in that case assert that there is any impulse.
We now see plainly how the ordinary theory must be totally unfit for furnishing principles of naval architecture, even although a formula could be deduced from such a series Ofexperiments as those of the French academy. Although we should know precisely the impulse, or, to speak now more cautiously, the action, of the fluid on a surface GL (fig. 8) of any obliquity,
when it is alone, detached
from all others, we cannot in
the smallest degree tell what
will be the action of
part
of a
stream or fluid advancing to
wards it with the same obli
quity, when it is preceded by
an adjoining surface CG, hav
ing a different inclination ; for
the fluid will not glide along GL in the same manner as if it made part of a more extensive surface having the same inclination. The previous deflections are extremely different in these two cases ; and the previous deflections are the only changes which we can observe in the motions of the fluid, and the only causes of that pressure which we observe the body to sustain, and which we call the impulse on it. This theory must, therefore, be quite unfit for ascertaining the action on a curved surface, which may be considered as made up of an indefinite number of successive planes.
We now see with equal evidence how it happens that the action of fluids on solid bodies may and must be opposed by pressures, and may be compared with and measured by the pressure of gravity. We are not comparing forces of different kinds, percussions with pressures, but pressures with each other. Let us see whether this view’ of the subject will afford us any method of comparison or absolute measurement.
When a filament of fluid, that is, a row of corpuscles, are turned out of their course, and forced to take another course, force is required to produce this change of direction. The filament is prevented from proceeding, by other filaments which lie between it and the body, and which deflect it in the same manner as if it were contained in a bended tube, and it will press on the concave filament next to it as it would press on the concave side of the tube. Suppose such
a bended tube ABE (fig. 9), and that a ball A is projected along it with any velocity, and moves in it without friction ; it '«'demonstrated, in elementary mechanics, that the ball will move with undiminished velocity, and will press on every
point, such as B, of the concave side of the tube, in a direction BF perpendicular to the plane CBD, which touches the tube in the point B. This pressure on the adjoining filament, on the concave side of its path, must be withstood by that filament which deflects it ; and it must be propagated across that filament to the next, and thus augment the pressure upon that next filament already pressed by the deflection of the intermediate filament ; and thus there is a pressure towards the middle filament, and towards the body, arising from the deflection of all the outer filaments ; and their accumulated sum must be conceived as immediately exerted on the middle filaments and on the body, because a perfect fluid transmits every pressure undiminished.
The pressure BF is equivalent to the two BH, BG, one of which is perpendicular, and the other parallel, to the direction of the original motion. By the first (taken in any point of the curvilineal motion of any filament), the two halves of the stream are pressed together, and, in the case of fig. 6 and 7, exactly balance each other. But the pressures, such as BG, must be ultimately withstood by the surface ACB ; and it is by these accumulated pressures that the solid body is urged down the stream, and it is these accumulated pressures which we observe and measure in our experiments. We shall anticipate a little, and say that it is most easily demonstrated, that when a ball A (fig. 9) moves with undiminished velocity in a tube so incurvat-ed that its axis at E is at right angles to its axis at A, the accumulated action of the pressures, such as BG, taken for every point of the path, is precisely equal to the force which .would produce or extinguish the original motion.
This being the case, it follows most obviously, that if the two motions of the filaments are such as we have described and represented by fig. 6, the whole pressure in the direction of the stream, that is, the whole pressure which can be observed on the surface, is equal to tlle weight of a column of fluid having the surface for its base, and twice the fall productive of the velocity for its height, precisely as Newton deduced it from other considerations ; and it seems to make no difference whether the fluid be elastic or unelastic, if the deflections and velocities are the same. Now it is a fact, that no difference in this respect can be observed in the actions of air and water ; and this had always appeared a great defect in Newton's theory ; but it was only a defect of the theory attributed to him. But it is also true, that the observed action is but one half of what is just now deduced from this improved view of the subject. Whence arises this difference ? The reason is this : We have given a very erroneous account of the motions of the filaments. A filament EF does not rηpve, as represented in fig. 6, with two rectangular inflections at I and at H, and a path IH between them parallel to CB. The process of nature is more like what is re
presented in fig. 10.
Jt is observed,
that at
the anterior part of
the body AB, there
remains a quantity of
fluid ADB, almost, if
not altogether, stag
nant, of a singular
shape, having two cur
ved concave sides A
a
D, B
b
D, along which the middle filaments glide. This fluid is very slowly changed. The late Sir Charles Knowles, a distinguished officer of the British navy, made many beautiful experiments for ascertaining the paths of the filaments of water. At a distance up the stream, he allowed small jets of a coloured fluid, which did not mix with water, to make part of the stream ; and the experiments were made in troughs with sides and bottom of plate-glass. A small taper was placed at a considerable height above, by which the shadows of the colour-
