The reformed religion was propagated in Sweden, soon after Luther’s rupture with the Church of Rome, by one of his disciples, named Olaus Petri. The zealous efforts of this missionary were· seconded by Gustavus Vasa, whom the Swedes had raised to the throne instead of Christiem king of Denmark, who by his horrid barbarity lost the crown. This prince, however, was as prudent as he was zealous ; and, as the minds of the Swedes were in a fluctuating state, he wisely avoided all kind of vehemence and precipitation in spreading the new doctrine. Accordingly, the first object of his attention was the instruction of his people in the sacred doctrines of the Holy Scriptures ; and for this purpose he invited into his dominions several learned Germans, and spread abroad throughout the kingdom the Swedish translation of the Bible which had been made by Olaus Petri. Some time after this, in 1526, he appointed a conference at Upsal, between this reformer and Peter Gallius, a zealous defender of the ancient faith, in which each of the champions was to bring forth his arguments, that it might be seen on which side lay the truth. In this dispute Olaus obtained a signal victory, which contributed much to confirm Gustavus in his persuasion of the truth of Luther’s doctrine, and to promote its progress in Sweden. The following year another event gave the finishing stroke to its propagation and success. This was the assembly of the states at Westeraas, where Gustavus recommended the doctrine of the reformers w’ith such zeal, that, after warm debates fomented by the clergy, it was unanimously resolved that the reformation introduced by Luther should be adopted in Sweden. This resolution was principally owing to the firmness and magnanimity of Gustavus, who declared publicly, that he would lay down the sceptre and retire from the kingdom, rather than rule a people enslaved by the orders and authority of the pope, and more controlled by the tyranny of their bishops than by the law s of their monarch. From this time the papal empire in Sweden was entirely overthrown, and Gustavus declared head of the church.
In Denmark, the Reformation was introduced as early as the year 1521, in consequence of the ardent desire discovered by Christiern II. of having his subjects instructed in the doctrines of Luther. This monarch, notwithstanding his cruelty, for which his name has been rendered odious, was nevertheless desirous of delivering his dominions from the tyranny of the Church of Rome. For this purpose, in the year 1520, he sent for Martin Reinard, one of the disciples of Carlostadt, and appointed him professor of divinity at Hafnia ; and after the death of this man, which happened in 1521, he invited Carlostadt himself to fill that important place. Carlostadt accepted of this office, indeed, but in a short time returned to Germany ; upon which Christiern used his utmost endeavours, but in vain, to engage Luther to visit his dominions. However, the progress of Christiern in reforming the religion of his subjects, or rather of advancing his own power above that of the church, was checked, in the year 1523, by a conspiracy, in consequence of which he was deposed and banished ; his uncle Frederick, duke of Holstein and Sleswick, being appointed his successor.
Frederick conducted the Reformation with much gτeater prudence than his predecessor. He permitted the Protestant doctors to preach publicly the sentiments of Luther, but did not venture to change the established government and discipline of the church. However, he contributed greatly to the progress of the Reformation, by his successful attempts in favour of religious liberty, in an assembly of the states held at Odensee in 1527. Here he procured the publication of a famous edict, by which every subject of Denmark was declared free to adhere either to the tenets of the Church of Rome or to the doctrine of Luther. The papal tyranny was totally destroyed by his successor Chris-tiern III. Hebeganbysuppressingthedespoticauthorityof
the bishops, and restoring to their lawful owners a great part of the wealth and possessions which the church had acquired by various stratagems. This was followed by a plan of religious doctrine, worship, and discipline, laid down by Bu-genhagius, whom the king had sent for from Wittenberg for tlle purpose ; and in 1539 an assembly of the states at Odensee gave their solemn sanction to all these transactions.
In France, also, the Reformation began very early to make some progress. Margaret queen of Navarre, and sister of Francis I. the perpetual rival of Charles V. was a great friend to the new doctrine ; and it appears that, as early as the year 1523, there were, in several of the provinces of France, great numbers of people who had conceived the greatest aversion both to the doctrine and tyranny of the Church of Rome, amongst whom were many of the first rank and dignity, and even some of the episcopal order. But as their number increased daily, and troubles and commotions were excited in several places on account of the religious differences, the authority of the king intervened, and many persons eminent for their virtue and piety were put to death in the most barbarous manner. Indeed, Francis, who had either no religion at all, or, at best, no fixed and consistent system of religious principles, conducted himself towards the Protestants in such a manner as best answered his private views. Sometimes he resolved to invite Mclancthon into France, probably with a view to please his sister the queen of Navarre, whom he loved tenderly, and who had strongly imbibed the Protestant principles. At other times he exercised the greatest cruelty towards the reformed ; and once made the following absurd declaration, that if he thought the blood in his arm was tainted by the Lutheran heresy, he w'ould have it cut off ; and that he would not spare even his own children, if they entertained sentiments contrary to those of the Catholic church. About this time Calvin began to attract the attention of the public, but more especially that of the queen of Navarre. His zeal exposed him to danger; and as Francis was daily committing to the flames the friends of the reformation, he was placed more than once in the most perilous situation, from which he was only delivered by the interposition of the queen of Navarre. He therefore retired from France to Basil in Switzerland, where he published his Christian Institutions, and afterwards became so famous in the history of Protestantism.
Those amongst the French who first renounced the jurisdiction of the Church of Rome are commonly called Lutherans by the writers of those early times. Hence it has been supposed that they had all imbibed the peculiar sentiments of Luther. But this appears not to have been the case : for the vicinity of the cities of Geneva, Lausanne, and some others, which had adopted the doctrine of Calvin, produced a remarkable effect upon the French Protestant churches ; insomuch that, about the middle of this century, they all entered into communion with the church of Geneva. The French Protestants were, by way of contempt, called Huguenots by their adversaries. Their fate was very severe, being persecuted with unparalleled fury ; and though several princes of the blood, and many of the first nobility, had embraced their sentiments, yet in no part of the world did the reformers suffer so much. At last all commotions were quelled by the fortitude and magnanimity of Henry IV., who in the year 1598 granted all his subjects full liberty of conscience by the famous edict of Nantes, and seemed to have thoroughly established the Reformation throughout his dominions. During the minority of Louis XIV. however, this edict was revoked by Cardinal Maza-rin, since which time the Protestants have often been cruelly persecuted ; nor was the profession of the reformed religion in France at any time so safe as in most of the other countries of Europe.
Iu the other parts of Europe the opposition to the Church
