2 sets of sights. (Fig. 26.)
4 beaters or wooden picks for ramming ballast under the sleepers. (Fig. 27.)
2 swivel or cramp crowbars, similar to a tooth-drawer, for drawing spikes without heads, 4 pick axes, 2 files to file the joints, 2 shifting wrenches for screwing up seats, 1 turn-plate to trim the sleepers to, 12 block drills, 4 hammers to ditto, 4 keying hammers, 2 chipping hammers, 1 sledge hammer, 4 cast-steel chisels for cutting joints, 12 f-inch augurs,
1 handsaw, 1 axe, 1 hand-drill for drilling turnplates, 4 sets of chisels with wood-rods for handles, similar to blacksmiths’.
The foregoing tools will enable them to fit in points and crossings, switches or turnplates, as well as to lay the line. Of course when there are sets of plate-layers wholly working at blocks, and other sets wholly working at sleepers, the tools which do not relate to the work they are engaged in, may be kept back. The above list has reference to chairs having wooden keys ; for any other kind of chair, if necessary, an adequate alteration must be made. One standard guage should be kept in the engineer’s office for the width of the rails, and another for the width between the lines, and all others constructed from it ; and they ought to be made of iron.
The engine-man should always stand by his hand-gear whilst the engine is running, and keep a most vigilant look out before him, passing all out-stations or stopping places slowly, and upon discovering any train at a stand still, he should approach and pass it at no greater speed than three miles an hour. Should any train require the assistance of a ballast-engine, it should be immediately given on an application to that effect from the upper guard, the engine-man first placing his waggons on a siding ; but the ballast-engine should not draw the train any farther than is necessary to place it under the charge of a regular passenger or goods’ engine ; and it should then return to its waggons in such a manner as not to interfere with the next train coming along the line. Every ballast-engine Bhouldbeprovidedwitllproper spanners, and other requisite tools, for the safe custody of which the engine-man should be responsible. During a fog the engine should be moved slowly, and the whistle be blown at not greater intervals than a quarter of a mile. Fogs, however, will always be dangerous on railways till two whistles totally different in sound are used, one for each line, blowing by machinery at every eighth part of a mile. When the ballast-engines stop in a fog on the line, the fireman should be sent at least 400 yards a-head to look out.
It is Yhe duty of the engine-men to take care that the engines are in a proper state of cleanliness and efficiency before they quit the engine-house, that every part is in proper and complete working order, and that the regular supply of coke and water is in both the engine and the tender, together w ith the requisite quantity of oil and waste ; and he should personally inspect his tool-box, and ascertain that every thing is in it which by rights should be so, and that his shovels, rakes, &c. are in readiness. He should carefully examine all his oil cups and syphon wicks, his water guage, and every other part of the engine, and when he sets her a-going, try his pumps on both sides, and also his hand-gear. According to the distance the engine-house is from the point where he hooks on the train, time must be allowed him before the minute of departure sufficient to let him arrive at the required spot about one minute before he is wanted, and no more.
He should be very careful in bringing his engine down to the head of the train, where the connection should be' made by a man specially appointed for the purpose. He should leave his condensed steam cock open as long as he can, being very cautious that it is shut just before the time of departure. During the journey he, in conjunction with his fireman, should keep a vigilant look-out for all signals of danger, watching each policeman as he approaches him till he has made his notification that all is in security along his part of the line. He must be attentive to stopping the train at the places ordered, and that he does not exceed the regulated speed, considering correctness of arrival his greatest aim, and consequently making up as far as he can in one part of his journey for any unavoidable detentions which may have arisen in other parts.
He should be very attentive to his watcr-guage, and test it, whenever he thinks it necessary, by his guage-cock. This, hon’evcr, should be done as little as possible if he have confidence in the water-gauge. He should never use his pumps without turning his pet-cocks, and ascertaining by them that every thing is working properly for the injection of the water ; particularly when one pump has got out of order, that if any thing should happen to the other he may instantly stop the engine and examine both of them, the necessary tools for which should be in his tool-box. He should always when practicable take the Ojlportunity of pumping in water when going down inclinations, or at other favourable times. He should attend well to his rakings, and should be careful not to put on too much coke at once, unless he is very strong in steam ; he should be constantly alert to the signals from the guard of the train, and ready to stop it in the shortest possible time when ordered to do so. The guard should have a check-string to the arm of the engine-man, and a flexible hollow tube should be fixed from the guard’s carriage to the engine, through which the men can converse, which the noise of the engine and train will otherwise render difficult.
After completing his journey, and placing his engine near the engine house over the ash pit, he should see the fire carefully raked out, and if his engine requires blowing off, he should take it to the projιer place for doing so, and then applyforthe Hecessaryassistance toplace it afterwards in the engine-house. But if it should not require to be blown off, he must of course proceed to the engine-house as soon as his fire is out, and having placed his engine in security, he should make his report to the foreman of all circumstances relative to the journey, and of any defects in the line, or in the engine, that he may have noticed, and the correct cause of all detentions which may have taken place. The engine should be examined and cleaned by proper persons appointed for that purpose ; but this should not supersede the necessity of the engine-man personally investigating, before he starts on a journey, that every thing is in correct ordcr. A great deal of expense in cleaning engines, as well as in their wear, would be saved by using a tarpaulin covering down each side from the boiler, to protect the machinery from rain. The engine-man should also have a fencing from the wet over the place where he stands.
The resident engineer who takes charge of the line when opened, should draw every thing by requisition from the storekeeper. The overseer should, in the first place, make out his weekly pay-bill, which should be checked by the time-book of the respective timekeepers; and when signed by the engineer, it should be forwarded to the audit-office, and the pay sent down to the booking-clerks of the adjacent stations, who should pay the men in the presence of the overseer, each man signing his name to attest the reception of the money. The necessary clerks and draftsmen for this part of the engineering department should also be paid weekly in the same way.
We have never yet seen a good mile mark on a railway,
