in sacrificing and deifying, in dividing the curiæ, tribes, centuries, and, in general, in all their religious ceremonies. There are several passages in Cato’s books
De Re Rustica, 
which may give us some idea of the rituals of the ancients.
RIVA, a city of the Austrian province of Trieste, in the circle of Roveredo. It is placed on the lake of Garda, in
a beautiful situation, and has a good haven, from which a considerable trade is carried on between Italy and Germany. Here many vessels are built. The inhabitants amount to 3350, and some of them are employed in making hardware. It is said that a million dozen of Jews’ harps are made annually in this place, and distributed over all Europe.
RIVER.
A river is a current of fresh water, flowing in a bed or channel from its source to the sea.
The term is appropriated to a
considerable
collection of waters, formed by the conflux of two or more brooks, which deliver into its channel the united streams of several rivulets, which have collected the supplies of many rills trickling down from numberless springs, and the torrents which carry off from the sloping grounds the surplus of every shower.
Rivers form one of the chief features of the surface of this globe, serving as voiders of all that is immediately redundant in our rains and springs, and also as boundaries and barriers, and even as highways, and in many countries as plentiful storehouses. They also fertilize our soil by laying upon our warm fields the richest mould, brought from the high mountains, where it would have remained useless for want of genial heat.
Being such interesting objects of attention, every branch acquires a proper name, and the whole acquires a sort of personal identity, of which it is frequently difficult to find the principle ; for the name of the great body of waters which discharges itself into the sea is traced backwards to one of the sources, while all the contributing streams are lost, although their waters form the chief part of the collection. And sometimes the feeder in which the name is preserved is smaller than others which are united to the current, and which like a rich but ignoble alliance lose their name in that of the more illustrious family. Some rivers indeed are respectable even at their birth, coming at once in force from some great lake. Such is the Rio de la Plata, the river St Lawrence, and the mighty streams which issue in all directions from the Baical Lake. But, like the sons of Adam, they are all of equal descent, and should take their name from one of the feeders of these lakes. This is indeed the case with a few, such as the Rhone, the Rhine, the Nile. These, after having mixed their waters with those of the lake, resume their appearance and their name at its outlet.
But in general their origin and progress, and even the features of their character, bcar some resemblance (as has been prettily observed by Pliny) to the life of man. The river springs from the earth, but its origin is in heaven. Its beginnings are insignificant, and its infancy is frivolous ; it plays among the flowers of a meadow ; it waters a garden, or turns a little mill. Gathering strength in its youth, it becomes wild and impetuous. Impatient of the restraints which it still mects with in the hollow s among the mountains, it is restless and fretful ; quick in its turnings, and unsteady in its course. Now it is a roaring cataract, tearing up and overturning whatever opposes its progress, and it shoots headlong down from a rock ; then it becomes a sullen and gloomy pool, buried in the bottom of a glen. Recovering breath by repose, it again dashes along, till, tired of the uproar and mischief, it quits all that it has swept along, and leaves the opening of the valley strewed with the rejected waste. Now, quitting its retirement, it comes abroad into the world, journeying with more prudence and discretion, through cultivated fields, yielding to circumstances, and winding round what would trouble it to overwhelm or remove. It passes through the populous cities and all the
busy haunts of man, tendering its services on every side, and becomes the support and ornament of the country. Now increased by numerous alliances, and advanced in its course of existence, it becomes grave and stately in its motions, loves peace and quiet ; and in majestic silence rolls on its mighty waters, till it is laid to rest in the vast abyss.
The philosopher, the real lover of wisdom, sees much to admire in the economy and mechanism of running waters ; and there are few operations of nature which give him more opportunities of remarking the nice adjustment of the most simple means for attaining many purposes of most extensive beneficence. All mankind seems to have felt this. The heart of man is ever open (unless perverted by the habits of selfish indulgence and arrogant self-conceit) to impressions of gratitude and love. He who ascribes the religious principle (debased though it be by the humbling abuses of superstition) to the workings of fear alone, may betray the slavish meanness of his own mind, but gives a very unfair and a false picture of the hearts of his neighbours. Lucretius was but half a philosopher when he penned his often quoted apophthegm. Indeed his own invocation shows how much the animal was blended with the sage.
We apprehend, that whoever will read with an honest and candid mind, unbiassed by licentious wishes, the accounts of the ancient superstitions, will acknowledge that the amiable emotions of the human soul have had theiι share in creating the numerous divinities whose worship filled up their kalendars. The sun and the host of heaven have in all ages and nations been the objects of a sincere worship. Next to them, the rivers seem to have attracted the grateful acknowledgments of the inhabitants of the adjacent countries. They have everywhere been considered as a sort of tutelar divinities ; and each little district, every retired valley, had its river-god, who was preferred to all others with a partial fondness. The expostulation of Naa-man the Syrian, who was offended with the prophet for enjoining him to wash in the river Jordan, was the natural effusion of this attachment. “ What!” said he, “are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, more excellent than all the waters of Judea ? Might I not wash in them and be clean ? So he went away wroth.”
In those countries particularly, where the rural labours and the hopes of the shepherd and the husbandman were not so immediately connected w’ith the approach and recess of the sun, and depended rather on what happened in a far distant country by the falls of periodical rains or tlle melting of collected snows, the Nile, the Ganges, the Indus, the river of Pegu, were the sensible agents of nature in procuring to tlle inhabitants of their fertile banks all their abundance, and they became the objects of grateful veneration. Their sources were sought out with anxious care even by conquering princes ; and when found, w, ere universally worshipped with the most affectionate devotion. These remarkable rivers, so eminently and so palpably beneficent, preserve to this day, amidst every change of habit, and every increase of civilization and improvement, the fond adoration of the inhabitants of those fruitful countries through which they hold their stately course, and their waters are still held sacred. No progress of artificial refinement, not all the corruption of luxurious sensuality, has
