Bishops, on every visitation of their dioceses, are obliged to call for the production of the registers of births, deaths, and marriages. The provincial authorities are also required to ascertain whether these registers are kept in all places as prescribed by law.
Annual abstracts must be made by the ministers and the rabbin, of which copies must be sent to the district of the conscriptions, and to the office of the circle.
In
Prussia,
except the Rhenish provinces, registration is committed to the clergyman of the parish amongst Christians, and to the elders amongst Jews. The clergyman is bound to enter the births, marriages, and deaths, of persons who are not of the established church, but who are “ simply tolerated,” on the declaration of the parties or their ministers, and to include these declarations in his annual returns. Duplicates of the registers are to be made, and at the end of each year deposited, when examined and verified, in the local civil court, being “ the tribunal of the place.”
(Report by the Select Committee on Parochial Registration,
1833;
Historyof Parish Registers in England,
by J. S. Burn, 1829 ;
Population Abstract for
1831 ;
Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the State, Custody, and Authenticity of Registers or Records of Births or Baptisms, Deaths or Burials, and Marriages, in England and Wales, otlier than Parochial Registers,
1838 ;
Manuel des Officiers de FEtat Civilpour ία tenue des Registres, 
par A. E. le Mott, Paris, 1827.)    (y. y.)
REGNARD, John Fbancis, one of the best French comic writers after Molière, was born at Paris in the year 1647. He had scarcely finished his studies, when an ardent passion for travelling led him to traverse the greater part of Europe. Having settled in his own country, he was made a treasurer of France, and lieutenant of the waters and forests. He wrote a great many comedies ; and, though naturally of a lively genius, died of chagrin in the fifty-second year of his age. His works, consisting of comedies and travels, were printed at Rouen, in 1732, in five vols. 12mo.
REGNIER, Mathurin, the first French poet who succeeded in satire, was bom at Chartres in the year 1573. He was brought up to the church, a vocation for which his debaucheries rendered him very unsuitable ; and these, by his own confession, were so excessive that at thirty he laboured under all the infirmities of age. Yet he obtained a canonry in the church of Chartres, with other benefices, and died in 1613. There is a neat Elzevir edition of his works, Leyden, 1652, in 12mo ; but the most elegant is that with notes by Brossette, London, 1729, in 4to.
Regnikr des Marets,
Séraphin,
a French poet, born at Paris in the year 1632. He distinguished himself early by his poetical talents, and in 1684 was made perpetual secretary to the French Academy on the death of Mezeray. It was he who drew up all the papers in the name of the academy against Furetière. The king gave him the priory of Gram-mont, and he had also an abbey. Regnier died in 1713, and his works, in French, Italian, Spanish, and Latin poems, are contained in two vols. ; besides a French grammar, and an Italian translation of Anacreon’s Odes, with some other translations.
REGRATOR signifies a person who buys and sells any wares or victuals in the same market or fair ; and regrators are particularly described to be those who buy, or get into their hands, in fairs or markets,any grain, fish, butter, cheese, sheep, lambs, calves, swine, pigs, geese, capons, hens, chickens, pigeons, conies, or other dead victuals whatsoever, brought to a fair or market to be sold there, and do sell the same again in the same fair, market, or place, or in some other within four miles thereof.
Regrating is thus a kind of
huchstry,
by which victuals are made dearer ; for every seller must gain something, and this consequently will enhance the price. In ancient times, both the engrosser and regrator were comprehended under
the word
forestalleτ.
Regrators are punishable by loss and forfeiture of goods, and imprisonment, according to the first, second, or third offence. But the modem science of Political Economy has taught us to view the practices of regrating and forestalling with far other eyes than those of our forefathers.
REGULAR denotes anything that is agreeable to rule. Thus we say, a regular building, a regular verb, and the like.
A regular figure, in geometry, is one the sides, and consequently the angles, of which are equal ; and a regular figure with three or four sides is commonly termed an
equilateral triangle
or
square,
as all others with more sides are called
regular polygons.
Regular
Body,
called also
Platonic Body,
is a body or solid comprehended by like, equal, and regular plane figures, and the solid angles of which are all equal. The plane figures by which the solid is contained are the faces of the solid ; and the sides of the plane figures are tlle edges or linear sides of the solid.
There are only five regular solids, viz. the tetrahedron, or regular triangular pyramid, having four triangular faces ; the hexahedron, or cube, having six square faces ; the octahedron, having eight triangular faces ; the dodecahedron, having twelve pentagonal faces ; and the icosahedron, having twenty triangular faces. Besides these five, there can be no other regular bodies in nature.
Regular, in a monastery, is a person who has taken the vows, and is so called because he is bound to observe the rules of the order he has embraced.
REGULUS, M. Attilius, served as consul during the first Punic war. He reduced Brundusium, and in his second consulship he took sixty-four and sunk thirty galleys of the Carthaginian fleet, on the coasts of Sicily. Afterwards he landed in Africa ; and so rapid was his success, that in a short time he made himself master of about two hundred places of consequence on the coast. The Carthaginians sued for peace, but the conqueror refused to grant it ; but soon afterwards he was defeated by Xanthippus, when thirty thousand of his men were left on the field of battle, and fifteen thqusand taken prisoners. Regulus was amongst the number of the captives, and he was carried in triumph to Carthage. He was sent by the enemy to Rome to propose an accommodation and an exchange of prisoners ; and if his commission proved unsuccessful, he was bound by the most solemn oaths to return to Carthage without delay. When he arrived at Rome, Regulus dissuaded his countrymen from accepting the terms which the enemy proposed ; and when his opinion had had due influence on the senate, Regulus returned to Carthage agreeably to his engagements. The Carthaginians were told that their offers of peace had been rejected at Rome by means of Regulus ; and for this reason they prepared to punish him with the greatest severity. His eye-brows were cut, and he was exposed for some days to the excessive heat of the meridian sun, and afterwards confined in a baιτel, the sides of which were everywhere filled with large iron pikes, till he died in the greatest agonies. His sufferings were heard of at Rome ; and the senate permitted his widow to inflict whatever punishment she pleased on some of the most illustrious captives of Carthage which were in their hands. She confined them also in presses filled with sharp iron points ; and was so exquisite in her cruelty, that the senate interfered, and stopped the barbarity of her punishment. Regulus died about 251 years before Christ.
Regulus, in
Astronomy,
a star of the first magnitude, in the constellation Leo. It is also called, from its situation, 
Cor Leonis,
or the
Lion’s Heart ;
by the Arabs,
Alhabor ; 
and by the Chaldieans,
Kalbeleced,
or
Karbeleceid,
from an opinion of its influencing the affairs of the heavens.
Regulus, in
Chemistry,
the metallic matter which falls
