promenades. It is the seat ofa bishop, and had, in 1836,
11,473 inhabitants, who make linen cloth, cotton goods, ser-t ges, and cassimeres, glass, brandy, and leather ; and trade in wine, brandy, nut-oil, and flax-seed, by the river. Long. 3. L 45. E. Lat. 45. 54. 30. N.
RIOSECO, a partido, in the province of Valladolid, in Spain, the capital of which, of the same name, but with the prefix sometimes of
Medina del,
is a large city. There is a canal from it which unites the canal of Campo with that of Castille. It contains three churches, five monasteries, two hospitals, 1200 houses, and betwixt 8000 and 9000 inhabitants, who manufacture serges and some other woollen goods, and ribbons and other silk goods. There are two fairs held annually, wr hich were places of vast resort, but had declined, till of late years they have revived, and are again become of great importance to the place. There is also a town of the same name in the district of Rey-nosa and province of Toro, in a mountainous part of the country.
RIOU’S Island, or Rooahooga, in the Pacific Ocean, about twenty-four miles in circumference, discovered in 1792 by Lieutenant Hergest. It is barren and rocky. Long. 139. 9. W. Lat. 8. 54. S.
RIPEN, or more properly Ribe, is a sea-port town and capital of the district of Ribe, in the province of North Jutland, Denmark, and is situated on the river Nipsaae1  which here falls into the North Sea. The harbour is difficult of access, and admits only of small vessels. There is a castle, two colleges, and a public library ; but the principal building is the cathedral, which is a handsome structure, and contains many of the tombs of the kings of Denmark. The bishopric is the most ancient, not only of Denmark, but also of Sweden and Norway. The town carries on a considerable trade in linen ; and it also exports corn, horses, and cattle. The population in the year 1834 amounted to 2365.
RIPHCEAN Mountains are a chain of high mountains in Russia, to the north-east of the river Oby, where there are said to be the finest sables of the whole empire.
RIPLEY, a market-town of the west riding of the county of York, 215 miles from London and tour from Knaresborough, in the wapentake of Claro. It is situated on the river Nyd, over which is a stone bridge. It was formerly a place of some importance, having a large castle, the ruins of which still exist. The church is an ancient building, with many monuments. It is remarkable from the extensive cultivation of liquorice. The market is on Friday, but has been but little attended of late years. The population amounted in 1801 to 892, in 1811 to 880, in 1821 to 1282, and in 1831 to 1219 ; but in the parish are included other two townships.
RIPON, a city of the west riding of Yorkshire, 222 miles from London. It is situated between two small streams, the Ure and the Skell. A new diocese has been erected, and the first bishop of Ripon, Dr Longley, was consecrated in 1836. The cathedral, formerly the collegiate church, has a dean, a subdean, four prebendaries, and two vicars. It is a fine old building, recently placed in good order. It was once adorned with two steeples, one of which was blown down, and the other has been removed. The market-place is one of the finest in the north of England, and is well attended on Thursdays. Ripon was once celebrated for making spurs, but that trade has vanished. Cotton-mills have been erected, which afford more employment. The municipal government consists of a mayor, four aldermen, and eleven councillors. The population amounted in 1821 to 4563, and in 1831 to 5080. Near to it is the magnificent seat and grounds of Studley Royal.
RISIBLE, any thing capable of exciting laughter.
Ludicrous
is a general term, signifying, as may appear from its derivation, what is playsome, sportive, or jocular.
Ludi
crous
therefore seems the genus, of which
risible
is a species, limited to what makes us laugh.
However easy it may be, concerning any particular object, to say whether it be risible or not, it seems difficult, if at all practicable, to establish any general character, by which objects of that kind may be distinguished from others. Nor is that a singular case ; for, upon a review, we find the same difficulty in most of the articles already handled. There is nothing more easy, viewing a particular object, than to pronounce that it is beautiful or ugly, grand or little ; but were we to attempt general rules for ranging objects under different classes according to these qualities, we should be much gravelled. A separate cause increases the difficulty of distinguishing risible objects by a general character : all men are not equally affected by risible objects, nor the same man at all times ; for in high spirits a thing will make him laugh aloud, which will scarcely provoke a smile in a grave mood. Risible objects, however, are circumscribed within certain limits. No object is risible but what appears slight, little, or trivial ; for we laugh at nothing that is ofimportance to our own interest or to that of others. Real distress raises pity, and therefore cannot be risible ; but a slight or imaginary distress, which moves not pity, is risible. The adventure of the fulling-mills in Don Quixote is extremely risible ; so is the scene where Sancho, in a dark night, tumbling into a pit, and attaching himself to the side by hand and foot, hangs there in terrible dismay till the morning, when he discovers himself to be within a foot of the bottom. A nose remarkably long or short is risible ; but to want it altogether, so far from provoking laughter, raises horror in the spectator. With respect to works both of nature and art, none of them is risible but such as are out of rule; some remarkable defect or excess, a very long visage, for example, or a very short one. Hence nothing just, proper, decent, beautiful, proportioned, or grand, is risible.
Even from this slight sketch it will be readily conjectured, that the emotion raised by a risible object is of a nature so singular as scarcely to find place while the mind is occupied with any other passion or emotion ; and the conjecture is verified by experience ; for we scarcely ever find that emotion blended with any other. One emotion we must except ; and that is, contempt raised by certain improprieties : every improper act inspires us with some degree of contempt for the author ; and if an improper act be at the same time so risible as to provoke laughter, of which blunders and absurdities are noted instances, the two emotions of contempt and of laughter unite intimately in the mind, and produce externally what is termed a
laugh of derision
or
of scorn.
Hence objects that cause laughter may be distinguished into two kinds : they are either
risible
or
ridiculous. 
A risible object is mirthful only ; a ridiculous object is both mirthful and contemptible. The first raises an emotion of laughter that is altogether pleasant : the pleasant emotion of laughter raised by thc other is blended with the painful emotion of contempt, and the mixed emotion is termed 
the emotion of ridicule.
The pain which a ridiculous object gives me is resented and punished by a laugh of derision. A risible object, on the other hand, gives me no pain ; it is rendered altogether pleasant by a certain titillation, which is expressed externally by mirthful laughter.
RITE, among divines, denotes the particular manner of celebrating divine service.
RITORNELLO, or Repeat, in
Music,
the burden of a song, or the repetition of the first or other verses of a song at the end of each couplet.
RITUAL, a book directing the order and manner to be observed in performing divine service in a particular church, diocese, or the like. The ancient heathens had also their rituals, which contained their rites and ceremonies to be observed in building a city, consecrating a temple or altar,
