fended by a fort. It contains about 500 houses and 2000 inhabitants.
Ramsey, a small island on the shore of the county of Pembroke, in South Wales. It is nearly three quarters of a mile in length and half a mile in breadth, and forms the north point of St Bride’s Bay. It was formerly much frequented by persons passing to Ireland, being the shortest water distance between the two islands ; as from St Bride’s to Camaroot Point, on the south-east angle of Ireland, is only sixteen leagues.
RAMSGATE, a large town and port, originally a hamlet, in the parish of St Lawrence, in the Isle of Thanet, in Kent, seventy-three miles from London, and seventeen from Canterbury. It is situated in a pleasant valley on the shore, with extensive views of the sea from the North and South Foreland, and of the shipping in the Downs. It has owed its rise to the construction of a most costly pier, by which a harbour has been created, which serves as a refuge for ships in stormy weather. It is capable of containing 500 sail of vessels. The pier extends 800 feet into the sea, and its top, which is twenty-six feet broad, furnishes a fine promenade. A new inner harbour is in progress, and will speedily be opened. Ramsgate, like Margate, has become a favourite place of resort for sea-bathing ; and though it has long bcen so, the number of visitors has vastly increased since the introduction of steam-vessels, by which passengers may in a few hours be conveyed to and from the metropolis. The accommodations for bathers are good, and there are abundance of hotels and lodging-houses to be procured at a moderate rate. There are a fine assembly-room, numerous libraries, and a handsome chapel, with meeting-houses for the various dissenting sects. It has some trade to the Baltic ; and many of the lower classes are occupied as fishermen, pilots, and watermen. It is in the liberty of the cinque port of Sandwich. The population amounted in 1801 to 3110, in 1811 to 4222, in 1821 to 6031, and in 1831 to 7985.
RAMTRUT, a deity worshipped by the Ranazins of Hindustan, where he has a celebrated temple at Onor. He is represented as more resembling a monkey than a man.
RAM U S, Peteb, was one of the most celebrated professors of the sixteenth century. Hewas born in Picardy in 1515. A thirst for learning prompted him, when very young, to repair to Paris, and he was admitted as a servant in the college of Navarre. Spending the day in waiting on his masters, and the greater part of the night in study, he made such surprising progress, that, when he took his degree as master of arts, lie offered to maintain a doctrine quite opposite to that of Aristotle. This raised him many enemies ; and the first two books he published,
Institutiones Dialec-ticœ
and
Aristotelicw Animadversiones,
occasioned great disturbances in the university of Paris. The opposition against him was not a little heightened by his deserting the Catholic religion, and professing that of the Reformed. Being thereby forced to retire from Paris, he visited the universities of Germany, and received great honours wherever he went. He returned to France in 1571, and lost his life miserably during the massacre of St Bartholomew’s day. He was a great orator, a man of general learning, and endowed with fine moral qualities. He published many books, which Teissier enumerates. Ramus’s merit in his opposition to Aristotle, and his firmness in undermining his authority, is unquestionably very great. But it has been doubted, and with much reason, whether he was equally successful in his attempts to form a new logical institute. The following general outline of his plan is given in Dr Enfield’s History of Philosophy. “ Considering dialectics as the art of deducing conclusions from premises, he endeavours to improve this art, by uniting it with that of rhetoric. Of the several branches of rhetoric, he considers invention and disposition as belonging equally to logic. Making Cicero his chief guide, he divides his treatise on dialectics into two parts, the first of which treats of the invention of arguments, the second of judgments. Arguments he derives not only from what the Aristotelians call middle terms, but from any kind of proposition, which, connected with another, may serve to prove any assertion. Of these he enumerates various kinds. Judgments he divides into axioms, or self-evident propositions,
dianoea,
or deductions by means of a series of arguments. Both these he divides into various classes ; and illustrates the whole by examples from the ancient orators and poets.
“ In the logic of Ramus, many things are borrowed from Aristotle, and only appear under new names; and many others are derived from other Grecian sources, particularly from the dialogues of Plato, and the logic of the Stoics. The author has the merit of turning the art of reasoning from the futile speculations of the schools to forensic and common use ; but his plan is defective in confining tlle whole dialectic art to the single object of disputation, and in omitting many things, which respect the general culture of the understanding and the investigation of truth. Notwithstanding the defects of his system, we cannot, however, subscribe to the severe censure which has been passed upon Ramus by Lord Bacon and others ; for much is, we think, due to him for having with so much firmness and perseverance asserted the natural freedom of the human understanding. The logic of Ramus obtained great authority in the schools of Germany, Great Britain, Holland, and France ; and long and violent contests arose between his followers and those of the Stagyrite, till his fame vanished before that of Descartes.”
RAN, in the old English writers, means open or public robbery, so manifest as not to be denied. Ran
dicitur aperta rapina quœ negari non potest.
(Lamb. 125,
Leg. Canut.
cap. 58.) Hence it is now' commonly said of one w ho takes the goods of another injuriously and violently, that he has snatched or taken all that he could
rap
and
ran.
RANAI, or Obanai, one of the Sandwich Islands, in the North Pacific Ocean, about nine miles from Mowee. The population is estimated at 20,000. The island produces few plantains or bread-fruit trees ; but abounds in yams, sweet potatoes, and other esculent roots and vegetables. Long. 185. 23. E. Lat. 20. 51. N.
RANDAZZO, a city of the district Demone, in the intendency of Messina, in Sicily. It stands on the side of Mount Ætna, looking over a rich and extensive plain, near a curious lake abounding in spunges, the collecting of which forms a part of the employment of the inhabitants. It is 120 miles from Palermo, and moderately healthy. The population amounts to 4700.
RANDERS, a city of Denmark, the capital of a bailiwick of the same name, in the province Aarhuus. It is situated at the mouth of the river Guden, and was once larger, and fortified. It now contains 515 houses and 4570 inhabitants, who make some cloths, and have breweries and distilleries. Long. 9. 58. 22. E. Lat. 56. 27. 48. N.
RANDIER, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Gujerat1 and district of Broach, which is said to have been in ancient times a large city. It is situated opposite to Surat, on the north side of the Tuptee river. Long. 73. 3. E. Lat. 21. 16. N.
RANDOLPH, Thomas, an English poet in the seventeenth century, was born in Ndrthamptonshire in 1605. He was educated a. Westminster and Cambridge, and very early distinguished by his excellent genius ; for about the age of nine or ten years he wrote the History of the Incarnation of our Saviour in verse. His subsequent writings established his character, and gained him the esteem and friendship of some of the greatest men of that age, particularly of Ben Jonson, who adopted him as one of his sons in the muses. He died in the year 1634, and was honourably
