burg, a city of the modern kingdom of Bavaria, the capital of the circle of that name. This city in ancient times, though under the protection of the elector of Bavaria, was considered as an imperial city, and the diets of the German empire were Irequently held within it. It was then the see of an archbishop, and remarkable for its zealous adherence to the Catholic church. It was the scene of one of the most bloody conflicts daring the Thirty Years’ War, when the army of the imperial general Wallenstein was intrenched before it, and the Swedish monarch Gustavus Adolphus made repeated but ultimately unsuccessful attempts to storm the works, and lost so many men that he was compelled to retreat. It suffered much during the war between the French and Austrians in 1809.
Ratisbon was a place of much greater relative importance in former times than it is at present, having then the exclusive right to all the trade by the river Danube, both upwards as far as Ulm, and downwards as far as Vienna.
The city stands on the river Danube, at the spot where the river Regen, from which its German name is derived, falls into that great stream. The bridge over the Danube connects the several parts of the city. It is still in an imperfect degree fortified, but is totally indefensible against any armed force. The buildings are of antique models, particularly the ancient council-house, in which the representatives of all the states of Germany were accustomed to assemble. The cathedral is a large Gothic building ; as are the church of St Emeran and the Lutheran church of the Holy Trinity, the latter of which was the college of the Jesuits till the abolition of the order.
The population, which in 1811 amounted to 18,843 persons, has much increased, and was found in 1837 to be 26,550. Of these, about one third are Lutherans ; and two thirds, comprehending almost the whole of the labouring classes, are Roman Catholics. The former party have a gymnasium, and the latter a lyceum. There is a learned society, who have a botanical garden and a respectable library, with a museum of mathematical and philosophical instruments, and a picture-gallery. There are manufactures of morocco leather, many tanneries, soap-makers, wax and tallow chandlers, with large breweries and distilleries. On the banks of the Danube are some establishments for building barques and boats for navigating that river. The transit trade between eastern and western Germany gives employment to several respectable mercantile houses. A project, now considerably advanced, gives hope to the inhabitants of this city of a much greater portion of transit commerce. The Royal Bavarian Canal is hastening to its completion, and will open a communication by water between the Rhine and the Danube, the whole length being within the dominions of Bavaria. It commences at the river Mayn, which empties itself into the Rhine, and will terminate in the Danube, near this city. It is hoped that the timber of Bavaria will thus find a market in Hungary, and the surplus corn of that kingdom a constant vent on the banks of the Rhine, especially in Holland.
RATLINES, or, as the sailors call them,
ratlins,
those lines which make the ladder-steps to go up the shrouds and pattocks, hence called the
ratlins of the shrouds.
RATTIBOR, a city, the capitιd of a circle of the same name, in the Prussian government of Oppeln, in Silesia. It stands on the left bank of the Oder, is surrounded with walls, and contains six Catholic and one Lutheran church, three hospitals, 4300 houses, and 4100 inhabitants. It has considerable trade in linen and woollen goods, in hosiery, and in timber, and has several distilleries and breweries.
R ATTOLAW, a seaport of Hindustan, in the province of Gujerat, and gulf of Cambay, is situated on a navigable river. It was ceded to the East India Company by the Guicowar, tile Mahratta chief, in 1803. It is forty-four
miles south-west from the city of Cambay. Long. 72. 15. E. Lat. 22. 3. N.
RAUJESHY, a district in Bengal, situated principally between the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth degrees of north latitude. It is bounded on the north by Dinagepoor and Mymunsingh ; on tlle south by Birbhoom and Kishenagur ; on the east by Dacca, Jelalpoor, and Mymunsingh ; and on the west by Monghir and Birbhoom. It is the most unwieldy zemindary in Bengal, comprehending an area of 12,909 square miles, and is intersected in its whole length by the Ganges and its lesser branches, with many navigable rivers and fertilizing streams. In answer to the inquiries of the Marquis Wellesley in the year 1801, the population was returned at 1.500,000.
RAUKOKE, one of the Kurile Islands, which is small and lofty, with a rocky shore.
RAUN, a town of some strength, situated upon the river Miza, and remarkable for a bloody skirmish between the Prussians and Austrians, in August 1744. The king of Prussia, intending to get possession of Beraun, sent thither six battalions, with eight cannon, and 800 hussars ; but General Festititz being there with a great party of his corps, and M. Luchesi with 1000 horse, they not only repulsed the Prussians, but attacked them in their turn, and, after a warm dispute, obliged them to retire with considerable loss.
RAVA, a town of Asiatic Turkey, situated on the Euphrates, about half-way between Kerkesieh and Anna. It contains about 200 houses in the midst of extensive ruins ; but many of these houses are uninhabited. On the opposite side of the river are the ruins of a castle, on the summit of a rock.
RAVAILLIAC, or Ravaillac, François, the assassin of Henry IV. of France, was a native of Angoulême, and, at the time of his execution, about thirty-two years of age. Ravaillac was the son of parents who lived upon alms. His father was one of those interior retainers of the law to whom the vulgar give the name of pettifoggers, and his son had been bred up in the same line. The latter had set up a claim to an estate, but the cause went against him ; and this disappointment affected his mind deeply. He afterwards taught a school, and, as he himself said, received charitable gifts, though but of very small value, from the parents of those whom he taught. Yet his distress was so great that he had much ado to live. When he was seized for the murder of the king, he was very loosely guarded ; and all were permitted to speak with him who pleased. He was removed next day from the house of Espernon to the Conciergerie, the proper prison of the parliament of Paris. When he was first interrogated, he answered with great boldness, that he had done it, and would do it if it were to be done again. When he was told that the king, though dangerously wounded, was living, and might recover, he said that he had struck him home, and that he was sure he was dead. In his subsequent examinations he owned that he had long had an intention to kill the king, because he suffered two religions in his kingdom ; and that he endeavoured to obtain an audience of him, in order to admonish him. He also said that he understood the king’s great armament to be against the pope ; and that, in his opinion, to make war against the pope was to make war against God. We have no distinct account of the last three examinations ; but he is said to have persisted in the most solemn asseverations that he had no accomplices, and that nobody had persuaded him to the fact. He appeared surprised at nothing so much as at the universal abhorrence of the people, which, it seems, he did not expect. They were forced to guard him strictly from his fellow-prisoners, who would otherwise have murdered him. The butchers of Paris desired to have him put into their hands, affirming that they would flay him alive, and that he should still live twelve days. When he was put to the torture, he broke out into
