it being cooler in summer, and warmer m winter ; though an increase of pay for submarine work is probably the real cause of preference.
The last effort of Rennie’s genius to which we shall advert, was the drainage of that vast tract of marsh land bordering upon the rivers Trent, Witham, New Welland, and Ouse, which for centuries past had baffled the skill of some of the ablest men in that department of civil engineering. Upon the same principles, he laid down a grand scheme for draining the whole of that immense district known by the name of the Bedford Level, which has in part been carried into execution by the completion of the Eau-brink Cut, near Lynn. The estimate he made for draining the whole amounted to L.l,200,000.
Such are some of the grand undertakings which Rennie, during the last thirty years of his life, was either employed to project or to carry into execution, and which, on a rough estimate, collected from his valuable Reports, did not fall far short of forty millions sterling ; about twenty millions of which were expended under his own immediate superintendence. Indeed, few great works were carried on, either by the public or individuals, on which he was not either employed or consulted. His industry was very extraordinary. Fond of the society of his select friends, and of rational conversation, he never suffered amusement of any kind to interfere with his business, which seldom engaged him less than twelve hours, and frequently fifteen, in the day. His conversation was always amusing and instructive. He possessed a rich fund of anecdote, and, like his old friend James W’att, told a Scotch story admirably. As a travelling companion, he was highly entertaining ; he !knew everybody on the road, and everybody knew John Rennie. Of an ardent and anxious mind, and naturally impetuous, he was gifted with the most perfect self-control ; and the irritation of the moment was seen but as a light summer’s cloud, passing across his finely-marked features, which were on so large a scale, though blended with much mildness as well as dignity, as to obtain for his noble bust by Chantrey, when exhibited in Somerset House, the name of
Jupiter Tonans.
Were we to seek for a parallel to Rennie, the name of Smeaton would at once suggest itself. Their boyhood was employed precisely in the same manner, in making models of pumps and windmills, whilst their school-fellows were at play ; their pursuits in manhood were similar, and their paramount success pretty nearly the same. But the spirit of speculation and improvement was but just springing up when Smeaton finished his career, and when Rennie began his. He was, in fact, the successor of Smeaton. There was a strong characteristic likeness between Rennie and the late Mr Ramsden. The pursuits of the former embraced a wider sphere of action, but thêy both arrived at their proposed objects by the most simple and obvious, and, at the same time, most effectual means. They were both equally clear in their mode of communicating information to others ; and it is sufficiently remarkable that, in their illustrations, both of them had recourse rarely to any other instrument than a two-feet rule, which each always carried in his pocket. Many a time has the writer of this article derived instruction from the two-feet rules of John Rennie and Jesse Ramsden. They were both equally communicative when they saw that information was desired ; and nothing like professional jealousy, or selfish feelings, actuated either of these ingenious men, who, on the contrary, were always kind and condescending to the more humble artists of their respective professions.
Mr Rennie possessed considerable skill in bibliography ; and being a zealous and liberal collector, he succeeded in forming a very valuable library, consisting of the best and rarest books in all the branches of science and art, of voyages and travels, and many curious books in tlle black let
ter ; whilst in his own department it contained every work of the least merit, in whatever language it might be written. He· had, besides, a good collection of mathematical and astronomical instruments, and frequently spoke of erecting an observatory, but did not live to carry his intention into execution. He had for some years laboured under a disease of the liver, which had apparently yielded to the usual treatment; but a relapse took place, and on the 16th of October 1821, after a few days’ illness, he expired without a struggle, in the sixtieth year of his age.
Mr Rennie, in 1789, married Miss Mackintosh, who died in 1806, leaving a family of seven young children, six of whom are now living. The two eldest, George and John, are successfully following the profession, and promise to tread in the footsteps, of their able and excellent father.
Sixteen mourning coaches, filled with his friends, mostly men of eminence in the arts, sciences, or literature, followed his hearse to St Paul’s, where his remains were interred near those of Sir Christopher Wren. A plain granite slab covers his grave, on which is the following appropriate inscription :
Here lie the mortal remains of JOHN RENNIE,
Civil Engineer,
F. K. S. L. & E. F. A. S. &c. &c.
Born at Phantassie, in East Lothian, 7th June 1761 ; deceased in London 4th Oct. 1821.
THIS STONE
testifies his private virtues, and records
the aflec6on and the respect of his family and his friends; but
the many splendid and useful works by which,
under his superintending genius,
England, Scotland, and Ireland, have been adorned and improved,
are
the true monuments of
his public merit.    
(m.)
RENTERING, in the manufactories, tlle same with fine drawing. It consists in sewing two pieces of cloth edge to edge, without doubling them, so that the seam scarcely appears ; and hence it is denominated
Jine drawing.
It is a French word meaning the same thing, and is derived from the Latin
retrahere,
compounded of
re, in,
and
trαhere,
because the seam is drawn in or covered.
Rentering, in tapestry, is the working new w
τ arp into a piece of damaged tapestry, whether eaten by the rats or otherwise destroyed, and on this warp restoring the ancient pattern or design. The warp must be of woollen, not linen. Amongst the titles of the French tapestry-makers is included that of renterers. Fine drawing is particularly used for a rent or hole, which happens in dressing or preparing a piece of cloth artfully sewed up or mended with silk. All fine drawings are reckoned defects or blemishes, and should be allowed for in the price of the piece. '
RENVERSE, Inverted, in
Heraldry,
is when anything is set with the head downwards, or contrary to its naturtd way of Staniling. Thus, a chevron renverse is a chevron with the point downwards. The same term is also used when a beast is laid on its back.
REOUNZEIK, a town of the Birman empire, situated on the western bank of the Irrawaddy. It carries on a very considerable trade with Rangoon, the chief article being teak timber. Long. 95. 25. E. Lat. 17, 45. N.
REPENTANCE, in general, means sorrow for anything past. In theology it means such a sorrow for sin as produces a change of life, or such a conviction of the evil and danger of a sinful course as is sufficient to produce shame and sorrow in the review of it, and effectual resolutions of amendment.
