the dwelling of a gently-disposed lover of nature. They fear cats and children. Lizards change their skins, like most otller reptiles, and the difference between the brightness and brilliancy of their old and new attire has caused the description by naturalists of many species which have no foundation in reality. Although belonging to the coldblooded classes, they are warmly attached to their females, and frequent battles take place among the males for the possession of their fair companions. The eggs are covered by a pale-coloured membranous skin, and are hatched by the heat of the sun, whether in the body of the basking parent, or after exclusion. The eggs themselves increase in size considerably, as the creature contained within develops its parts. The reptiles of this group are never voluntarily found in water. They dislike that element, and avoid it, being bad swimmers ; nevertheless, when pursued down steepish banks, we have seen them swim across small ditches to gain the other side and avoid persecution. One of the most singular attributes of these creatures consists in their extreme fragility. When running up a bank, or otherwise attempting to escape from danger, if even a light glove or handkerchief is cast upon them, several inches of the terminal portion of their body comes riggling off, and will twist about among the grass for a considerable period with great liveliness, while the body with its head and four legs proceeds upon its way rejoicing. The tail even appears to rest itself from riggling for a time, and if touched with a pin, or otherwise incommoded, will then resume its movements with such an apparent character of discomposure, as if it were expressing its dislike at the annoyance.
Although several anatomists, proceeding upon their too exclusive knowledge of the higher classes of creation, in which there is no reproduction of important parts, have doubted the extent and universality of this inherent power in reptiles, there is yet no fact in natural history more satisfactorily determined. When we refer to the satisfaction of the subject, we allude chiefly to the feelings of the experimenter, those of the creatures in question being, we fear, in such a crisis, but sparingly consulted. In numerous reptiles, the limbs, and a great portion of the posterior part of the body, may be cut off without more than a temporary inconvenience, the removal being not only speedy, but complete. Blumenbach, one of our highest modern authorities, has repeated@@1 the experiment alluded to by Pliny.@@2 He destroyed with an iron point the eyes of the green lizard, and placing the poor creature in a vessel with some fresh earth, which he deposited in moist soil, he found, after the lapse of a brief period, that the organs of sight were entirely reproduced,—“ in integrum restitutos.” Lizards and reptiles of the genus
Scineus,
of which the tail has been either intentionally or accidentally broken off, are found to reproduce it speedily. The newer portion is recognisable externally by the form and colour of the scales, and on dissection the vertebræ are found replaced by pieces of a more cartilaginous nature, which probably never acquire the hardness or consistency of bone. Many experiments have shown the facility with which the limbs and tail of water-newts, and other aquatic reptiles, may be reproduced.@@3 “ Qu’il nous soit permit,” says M. Duméril, rather winningly, “ de consigner ici une de nos expériences : nous avons emporté avec les ciseaux les trois quarts de la tête d’un triton marbré. Cet animai, placé isolément au fond d’un large bocal de crystal, où nous avions soin de conserver de l’eau fraîche à la naureur d’un demi-pouce, en prenant la précaution de la renouveler au moins une fois chaque jour, a continué de vivre et d’agir lentement. C’était un cas bien curieux pour la physiologie ; car ce triton privé de quatre sens principaux, les narines, la langue, les yeux, et les oreilles, c’était reduit à ne vivre extérieurement que par Ie toucher. Cependant il avait la conscience de son existence ; il marchait lentement et avec précaution ; de temps à autre, et à des grands intervalles, il portait le moignon de son cou vers la surface de l’eau, et dans les premier jours on le voyait faire des efforts pour respirer. Nous avons vu, pendant au moins trois mois, se faire un travail de reproduction et de cicatrisation telle qu’il n’est resté aucune ouverture ni pour les poumons ni pour les aliments. Par malheur, cet animal a péri au bout des trois premiers mois d’observations suivies, peut-être par le défaut de soins d’une personne à laquelle nous l’avions recommandé pendant une absence. Mais on a conservé le sujet dans les collections du muséum, et quand nous en parlons dans nos cours, nous le faisions voir à nu pour qu’on puisse constater la singularité du fait d’un animal qui a vécu sans tête, et surtout pour demontrer la possibilité et la nécessité, même chez les Batracians, d’une sorte de respiration par la peau.”4
We may observe, that in all the tentative experiments which have been hitherto made upon this subject, it has been perceived that these renewals are favoured by warmth and retarded by cold. As an article of diet, lizards are scarcely ever used in Europe, unless in years of peculiar scarcity. Their flesh is said to possess a sudorific quality.
The species of this genus are numerous in many continental countries (from fifteen to twenty different European kinds being known to naturalists), but are few in Britain. Of the former, one of the most beautiful is the Ocellated lizard
(L. Ocellata,
Daudin), well known in Spain, Italy, and the south of France. It likewise occurs in Barbary, and, generally speaking, over a great portion of the basin of the Mediterranean ; but being extremely sensible to cold, it is not likely to extend into Kamtschatka, as some suppose. It may be kept alive within doors in Spain throughout the winter (it naturally then assumes the torpid state), but will perish if dug up from its retreat, and exposed to cold approaching to the freezing point. This magnificent reptile sometimes attains the length, even in Europe, of two feet, although its more usual length is from twelve to fifteen inches. Its proportions are rather ample, that is, somewhat thicker than usual, yet it is by no means devoid of elegance ; and although it can scarcely be said to be ornamented with those tints of azure, green, and gold, which Lacépède has lavished on it, with more of poetical fancy than precision, it yet is pleasingly adorned. The back is black, beset with numerous circles of green or yellow distributed in great profusion, and showing like pearly beads upon a darker ground. The head is beautifully marbled with green and black, as are also the upper portions of the thighs and feet. The tail is brow nish, and all the under parts are of a greenish yellow. “ Le lézard dont il est question est innocent, mais hardi ; il fuit au moindre bruit, non lâchement, s’arrêtant de distances en distances pour observer la cause de sa crainte, et si on le presse de trop près il se jette sur l’assaillant en faisant entendre un certain Soufflement qui rappelle en petit celui qui font entendre les oies en colère. Comme on en trouvait beaucoup aux environs d’une baronie de Saint Magne, où nous avons passé les premiers temps de notre jeunesse, et que nous en avons été souvent violem
@@@1
Specimen Physiologia: Comparative,
p. 31.    
’ Historia Mundi,
lib. xxix. chap. 38 ; and Ælian, edit. Schneid. lib. v. 47-
@@@2 On this very curious physiological subject the reader may consult the following works : Plateretti,
Su k reproducionc dclle gambe e della coda dclle Salamandre aquajuole.
Scelt. de Oμusc. interes, vol. xxvii. p. 18. Spallanzani,
Sopra le Teprodusioni animali,
Fisica Animale e Vegetehile, 1768. Murray,
Commentatio de redintegratione partium nexu suo solutarum vel amissarum,
1787. Bonnet,
Sur
la ri-
production des membres de la Salamandre aquatique,
Œuvres d’Hist. Nat. et de Philos, t. v. p. I77.
@@@3 Erpétologie Générale,
i. 209.
