tinued, though with very different degrees of brilliancy, till past two. At first, though a strongly-marked bow, it was without colours ; but afterwards they were very conspicuous and vivid, in the same form as in the solar, though fainter, the red, green, and purple being the most distinguishable. About twelve it was the most splendid in appearance ; its arc was a considerably smaller segment of a circle than a solar ; and its south-east limb first began to fail, a considerable time before its final extinction. The wind was very high, nearly due west, accompanied most part of the time with a drizzling rain. It is a singular circumstance, that three of these phenomena should have been seen in so short a time and in one place ; as they have been esteemed, ever since the time of Aristotle, who is said to have been the first observer of them, and saw only two in fifty years, and since by Plot and Thoresby, almost the only two English authors who have spoken of them, to be exceedingly rare. They evidently appear to be occasioned by a refraction in a cloud or turbid atmosphere, and in general are indications of stormy and rainy weather. Thores-by, indeed, says the one he observed was succeeded by several days of fine serene weather. One particular, rather singular, in the second, namely, that of July the 30th, was its being six days after the full moon ; and the last, though of so long a duration, was three days before the full moon. That of the 27th of February was exactly at the full, which used to be judged the only time when they could be seen, though there is an account that Weidler observed one in 1719, during the first quarter of the moon, with faint colours, and in very calm weather.
In the Gentleman’s Magazine for August 1788 an account is given of a lunar rainbow by a correspondent, who saw it. “ On Sunday evening the 17th of August,” says he, “ after two days, on both of which, particularly the former, there had been a great deal of rain, together with lightning and thunder, just as the clocks were striking nine, twenty-three hours after full moon, looking through my window, I was struck with the appearance of something in the sky, which seemed like a rainbow. Having never seen a rainbow by night, I thought it a very extraordinary phenomenon, and hastened to a place where there were no buildings to obstruct my view of the hemisphere. Here I found that the phenomenon was no other than a lunar rainbow ; the moon was truly ‘ walking in brightness,’ brilliant as she could be ; not a cloud was to be seen near her ; and over against her, toward the north-west, or perhaps rather more to the north, was a rainbow', a vast arch, perfect in all its parts, not interrupted or broken as rainbows frequently are, but Unremittedly visible from one horizon to the other. In order to give some idea of its extent, it is necessary to say, that as I stood toward the western extremity of the parish of Stoke-Newington, it seemed to take its rise from the west of Hampstead, and to end, perhaps, in the river Lea, the eastern boundary of Tottenham ; its colour was white, cloudy, or grayish, but a part of its western leg seemed to exhibit tints of a faint sickly green. I continued viewing it for some time, till it began to rain ; and at length the rain increasing and the sky growing more hazy, I returned home about a quarter or twenty minutes past nine, and in ten minutes came out again ; but by that time all was over, the moon was darkened by clouds, and the rainbow of course vanished.”
RAISEEN, a district of Hindustan, in the province of Malwah1 situated between the 23d and 24th degrees of north latitude, belonging to the Mahrattas. It is bounded on the south by the Vindhaya Mountains, and is intersected by the river Betwah. The principal towns are Raiseen, Bil-sah, and Choonpore. This district is principally laid out in tobacco-fields, for which it is famed. The capital of the above district is of the same name, 126 miles east from Oojain. Long. 77. 47. E. Lat. 23. 15. N.
RAISEN-MARKET, a town of the county of Lincoln, in the hundred of Walshcroft, and in Lindsey division. It is situated near the navigable river Anklom1 and has a market, which is held on Saturday. The population amounted in 1801 to 774, in 1811 to 964, in 1821 to 1166, and in 1831 to 1428.
RAISINS, grapes prepared by suffering them to remain on the vine until they are perfectly ripe, and then drying them in the sun, or by the heat of an oven. The difference betw'een raisins dried in the sun and those dried in ovens is very obvious. The former are sweet and pleasant, but the latter have a latent acidity mixed with the sweetness, which renders them much less agreeable.
The common way of drying grapes for raisins, is to tie two or three bunches of them together whilst yet on the vine, and dip them into a hot lixivium of wood-ashes, mixed with a little of the oil of olives. This disposes them to shrink and wrinkle ; after which they are left on the vine three or four days, separated on sticks in an horizontal situation, and then dried in the sun at leisure after being cut from the tree. The finest and best raisins are those called in some places
Damascus
and
Jube raisins ;
which are distinguished from the others by their size and figure. They are flat and wrinkled on the surface, soft and juicy within, and nearly an inch long ; and, when fresh and growing on the bunch, are of the size and shape of a large olive.
RAJAH, the title of the Indian princes, the remains of those who ruled there before the Moguls.
RAJAK CHOHANS, a wild, rugged, and mountainous country, very little cultivated, in the province of Gundwa-na, and situated between the 23d and 24th degrees of north latitude. The principal tow n is Sonehut, the usual residence of the Corair rajah. This tract of country is inhabited by the wildest tribes of India, and presents one continued succession of deep gullies, ravines, chasms, and defiles. The inhabitants are very poor, being collected in villages, which consist of not more than four or five huts each. A little rice, Indian corn, and a few other smaller grains, are the chief products. The country affords abundant cover for game of all sorts ; and tigers, leopards, tiger-cats, and large black bears, abound in its woods and jungles.
RAJABARY, a considerable trading town of Bengal, in the district of Dacca, situated on the western bank of the river Megna. Long. 96. 21. E. Lat. 23. 25. N. Rajah, signifying prince, is the prænomen of numerous towns in Hindustan.
RAJAHNAGUR, a town of Bengal, in the district of Dacca, situated on the eastern bank of the Ganges. Long. 93. 14. E. Lat. 23. 22. N. There is another place of this name in the Northern Circars, 12 miles north-east of Raja-mundry.
RAJAMUNDROOG, a town and fortress of Hindustan, in the province of Bejapore, and district of Concan. It was taken by General Matthews in 1783, but afterwards ceded to Tippoo. It commands the entrance into the estuary and river Mirjee. Long. 73. 30. E. Lat. 14. 30. N.
RAJAMUNDRY, an extensive district of Hindustan, in the province of the Northern Circars, bounded on the north by Cicacole, and on the south by Ellore ; on the west by the territories of the Nizam, and on the east by the Bay of Bengal. This district is intersected by the Godavery1  and lies chiefly to the north of that river, though part of it is also to the south. At the distance of about thirty-five miles from the sea, this river divides itself into two great branches, and forms the island of Nagur, comprehending, within a triangular space, 500 square miles, but much greater in value than in extent. The whole district includes an area of 1700 square miles. The island of Nagur is intersected by lesser branches of the Godavery, which, supplying abundance of water, render it very productive, being fertilized by the slimy mould carried down by this great
