feet bearings, it was found much more troublesome to keep the permanent way in order, than with bearings of three feet. With the four-feet bearings, it was found, that, in a very short time, the rails were put out of gauge, the width continually increasing, until it became absolutely necessary to readjust the whole. This was observed in a very marked manner with a part of the line near Kilburn, which had been recently laid down.
On the Harrow contract, from the crossing of the Harrow road to No. 12 cutting, the permanent road was used for conveying away the material from a side cutting. The traffic was of course considerable, but not by any means such as to account for the absolute difficulty which the contractors had in keeping the railway in guage. They were obliged to put sleepers at the joints in addition to the regular number of blocks, which of course kept the rails in guage at those points ; but notwithstanding this, the intermediate blocks moved outwards. When the engineer’s attention was first called to this position of the permanent way, he was inclined to think that something might be attributed to the blocks being placed anglewise ; but after giving this part of the subject his careful consideration, he felt satisfied that the position of the blocks was at least as firm as the square position ; and he felt confirmed in this opinion, by the fact, that, in another portion of the line near Kensal Green, where the road was laid in the ordinary manner with blocks three feet apart, and placed anglewise, and where locomotive engincs had been constantly running for eighteen months, there was not found any greater tendency to amotion outwards, than when they were laid square to the direction of the rail, in the old manner. If, therefore, the diagonal position of the blocks had been defective, this was the place to try it ; for the quantity of material conveyed over this part of the permanent road in waggons without springs, and with heavy locomotive engines, was very great indeed, and under circumstances well calculated to detect any marked difference in the construction.
On the Berkhampstead contract, where five-feet bearings were in use, and where a locomotive engine was at work, the contractors made heavy complaints of the greater difficulty they had experienced in keeping the rails in gauge than there was with the shorter bearings. In fact, in the eighteen months prior to June 1837, the three-feet rails in some parts of the line, had more work than they now have, where the line is open ; yet they stood it well, whilst the five feet have been so put out of gauge by one day’s work, that the waggons had to be stopped till one and two additional sleepers for each five feet could be laid down, and even thentheywere but indifferent; and similar complaintshaving come in from other quarters, together with the fact that the five-feet bearings on the Liverpool and Manchester railway were found to cost double the sum for keeping the way in repair that was required with three feet nine-inches bearings, the whole question had to be opened again, and the directors resolved to shorten the bearings from five feet to three feet nine inches.
This lateral deflection is of most serious importance, when we recollect that the rails being out of guage will throw the trains off the line. The lateral blow s which an engine may give are such, that several chairs in succession have been broken or knocked off’ the blocks and sleepers ; and the absolute weight passing over any one rail may be fairly taken as three times the nominal weight, for the effect from lurching has been experimentally found with engines having three tons’ weight on each of the driving wheels to increase that weight to seven tons ; besides which, we know that four-wheeled engines, for instance, will, in practice, be frequently running on three wheels, no railroad being a perfect plane ; and when these three points are in the act of shifting, the engine during that time is only supported on two wheels.
The flexure produced by this weight perpendicularly has also this bad effect, that the engine and train are constantly ascending an inclined plane in practice, although the railway is considered as level, and of course where the railway has an inclination, that inclination will be proportionally increased. This was first pointed out by Professor Barlow, and is an important fact; for on the short planes between each block or sleeper caused by the deflection of the rail, the gain in descent is so insignificant, that it may be entirely neglected ; consequently the engines and carriages are constantly going up an inclined plane between each support of the rails equivalent to the central deflection divided by twice the distance between the supports. This is, from calculation, ascertained to be as follows, viz. :—
Bearing distance.
Deflection.
Equivalent
Planes.
Increased Power required per ton.
Ft.
In.
Inches.
3 0
•024
1 in 3000
•75 lb.
3 9
•037
1 in 2432
•92 lb.
4 0
•041
1 in 2341
•95 lb.
5 0
•064
1 in 1875
1∙20 lb.
6 0
•082
1 in 1756
1∙30 lb.
Although the deflection of rails will generally be different from the above, and the increase of powr er required to surmount the consequent planes will also require considerable modification to suit the action of locomotive cngines, which depend upon so many other circumstances besides the action of gravity ; yet the fact remains the same, namely, that with deflection there is a consequent loss, and the subject deserves much more consideration than it has received, especially as we know that fish-bellied rails do not fail in the middle,butabouteight inches from the supports. Arail ought not to act as a spring ; but as this to a certain extent must be the case, it should be made to do so as little as possible. A spring should only be used to get over an obstacle where one must be met, but if the rail acts as a spring it creates an obstacle where none existed before. We must also remember that when deflection becomes permanent, fracture begins, as we break a thing we are not strong enough to pull asunder, by bending it backwards and forwards. In fact, the experiments on deflection have hithcrto been such that they have merely served to unsettle all opinion, and to place one set of deductions in opposition to another. The mode of estimating this element by two wheels on an axle, loaded at their peripheries, and oscillated on the rails, is one which well deserves attention. In all cases, the firmer the rail is fixed to the chair, as respects rising in it, the less will be the deflection. Of course it must always have a motion in the direction of its length to allow for expansion and contraction, the force of which will vary in good or tolerable iron from nine to six tons per square inch of section. The expansion of a fifteen-feet rail may betaken at∙00l26 inches for each degree of Fahrenheit, and as it will not be safe to take less than 90° for the range of our climate, this gives •1134 inches for the total, or ∙0567 at each end of such a rail.
In order to understand the action which takes place in the case of a deflected rail when a heavy weight passes over it, we must know the effect of gravity at the velocities used on railways. For this purpose, if we take three, four, and five-feet bearings as those which seem at present likely to be the limits, the following table will give us the time occupied in going over half the rail in each case; and from this we shall be able to ascertain the effect of gravity during that time.
