montswick in Northumberland. From the grammar-school of Newcastle-upon-Tyne he was sent to Pembroke Hall in Cambridge, in the year 1518, and was there supported by his uncle Dr Robert Ridley, fellow of Queen’s College. In 1522 he took his first degree in arts ; two years after, was elected fellow ; and, in 1525, he commenced master of arts. In 1527, having taken orders, he was sent by his uncle, for further improvement, to the Sorbonne at Paris ; from thence he went to Louvain, and continued abroad till the year 1529. On his return to Cambridge, he was chosen under-treasurer of the university ; and, in 1533, was elected senior proctor. He afterwards proceeded bachelor of divinity, and was chosen orator and a chaplain of the university. At this time he was much admired as a preacher and disputant. Hc lost his kind uncle in 1536 ; but was soon after patronised by Dr Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury, who made him his domestic chaplain, and presented him to the vicarage of Heme in East Kent, where, we are told, he preached the doctrine of the Reformation. In 1540, having commenced doctor of divinity, he was made king’s chaplain ; and in the same year was elected master of his college in Cambridge. Soon after, Ridley was collated to a prebend in the church of Canterbury ; and it was not long before he was accused in the bishop’s court, at the instigation of Bishop Gardiner, of preaching against the doctrine of the Six Articles. The matter being referred to Cran-mer, Ridley was acquitted. In 1545, he was made a prebendary of Westminster ; in 1547 was presented, by the fellows of Pembroke Hall, to the living of Soham, in the diocese of Norwich ; and the same year was consecrated bishop of Rochester. In 1550 he was translated to the see of London. During the same year he was one of the commissioners for examining Bishop Gardiner, and concurred in his deprivation. In 1552, returning from Cambridge, he, unfortunately for himself, paid a visit to the Princess, afterwards Queen Mary ; to whom, prompted by his zeal for reformation, he expressed himself with too much freedom ; for she was scarcely seated on the throne when Ridley was doomed a victim to her revenge. With Cranmer and Latimer he was burnt alive at Oxford, on the l6th of October 1555. Among other works, he wrote, 1. A Treatise concerning Images in Churches ; 2. A brief Declaration of the Lord’s Supper ; 3. Certain godly and comfortable Conferences between Bishop Ridley and Mr Hugh Latimer, during their imprisonment ; 4. A Comparison between the comfortable Doctrine of the Gospel and the Traditions of the Popish religion.
Ridlev,
Gloster,
was of the same family with the preceding. He was born at sea, in the year 1702, on board the Gloucester East Indiaman, from which circumstance he obtained his Christian name. He was educated at Winchester school, and afterwards obtained a fellowship of New College, Oxford, where he took the degree of LL. B. in 1729. He paid his court to thc Muses at an early period, and laid the foundation of those solid and elegant acquisitions which afterwards distinguished him as a divine, historian, and poet. During a vacation in 1728, he joined with four friends in composing a tragedy called “ The Fruitless Redress,” each undertaking an act, agreeably to a plan which they had previously concerted. It was offered to Mr Wilkes, but never acted, and is still in manuscript. Dr Ridley in his youth was extremely attached to theatrical performances. The Redress, and another tragedy called Jugurtha, were exhibited at Midhurst in Sussex ; and the actors were chiefly the gentlemen who assisted him in their composition. We are informed that he played Marc Antony, Jaffier, Horatio, and Moneses, with very great applause, which may be readily inferred from his graceful manner of speaking in the pulpit.
During a great part of his life he had only the small college living of Westow in Norfolk, and that of Poplar in
Middlesex, which was the place of his residence. After an interval of some years, his college added to these the donative of Romford in Essex, which left him little or no time for what he considered as the necessary studies of his profession. Yet in this situation he remained in the possession of, and satisfied with domestic felicity, and enjoyed the intimate friendship of some who were equally distinguished for worth and learning.
The eight Sermons which he preached at Lady Moyer’s lecture it 1740 and 1741 were given to the public in 1742. In the year 1756 he was invited to
go
to Ireland as first chaplain to the duke of Bedford, but declined to accept the offer. In the year 1763 he published the Life of Bishop Ridley, in 4to, by subscription, from the profits of which he was enabled to purchase L.800 in the public funds. In the year 1765 he published his Review of Philips’s Life of Cardinal Pole. In 1767 the university of Oxford conferred upon him by diploma the degree of D. D. In 1768 he was presented by Archbishop Secker with a rich prebend in the cathedral church of Salisbury ; the only reward he received from the great during a long and useful life. He was at last worn out with infirmities, and died in 1774, leaving behind him a wife and four daughters. Dr Ridley survived both his sons, who were young men of considerable abilities. The elder, called James, was author of Tales of the Genii, and some other literary performances ; and his brother Thomas was sent as a writer to Madras by the East India Company, but he suddenly died of the smallpox.
RIENZI, Nicholas Gabrini de, one of the most singular characters of the fourteenth century, was born at Rome, but it is not certainly known in what year. His father, as some affirm, was a vintner, but, according to others, a miller, and his mother was a laundress, yet they found means to give their son a liberal education ; and to a fine natural understanding he added uncommon application. He was well acquainted with the laws and customs of nations ; and had a vast memory, which enabled him to retain much of Cicero, Valcrius Maximus, Livy, the two Senecas, and, in particular, Cæsar’s Commentaries, which he constantly perused. This extensive erudition proved the foundation of his future rise. He acquired the reputation of a great antiquary, from the time which he spent among the inscriptions to be found at Rome, and these inspired him with exalted ideas of thc liberty, the grandeur, and justice of the old Romans. He even persuaded himself, and found means to persuade others, that he should one day be the restorer of the Roman republic. The credulity of the people was powerfully encouraged and strengthened by his advantageous stature, by the attractions of his countenance, and by that air of consequence which he could assume at pleasure. The joint energy of all these prepossessing qualities made a deep and almost indelible impression on the minds of his hearers.
Nor was his fame merely confined to the vulgar, for he even ingratiated himself into the good opinion of many distinguished personages belonging to the administration. The Romans chose him one of their deputies to Pope Clement VI. then at Avignon. The purport of this mission was to persuade his holiness that his absence from the capital was inimical to its interest. His commanding eloquence and gay conversation charmed the court of Avignon ; and Rienzi was thus encouraged to tell the pope, that the great men of Rome were public thieves, robbers, adulterers, and profligates, by whose example the most horrid crimes were sanctioned. This ill-timed freedom ∙of speech made Cardinal Colonna his enemy, though the friend of genuine merit, because he thought that some of his family were included in this flagrant accusation. Rienzi was disgraced, and fell into extreme misery, vexation, and sickness, which, by being united with indigence, brought him to a hospital. But
