siderable part of it ; a conflagration, which destroyed another portion of it ; and, lastly, the transfer of the seat of government to Dacca. There is a tradition that this city was in very ancient times the seat of a Hindu government. It is first mentioned by Mahommedan historians in 1576, under the name of Agamaltel, or the house of fire. In the reign of Akbar, about 1591, Rajah Mause Singh, on his return from the conquest of the Afghans of Orissa, fixed upon this city for the capital of Bengal, the name of which he changed to Rajamahal. He erected a palace, and surrounded the town with a rampart of brick and other fortifications. The city suffered considerable injury from the troops of Aurungzebe, who took it after a short siege. It was afterwards the residence of the military collector of the district, which contributed to its support ; but since the union of the district with Boglipoor, and the transfer of the public offices to that town, it has fallen into decay. It is seventy miles north-north-west from Moorshedabad. Long. 87. 43. E. Lat. 25. 2. N.
RAJOORAII, a tow, n of Hindustan, in the province of Aurungabad, forty miles south-west from Nandere. Long. 77. 15. E. Lat. 18. 38. N.
RAJPOOR, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Be-japoor, and situated on the sea-coast of the Concan district. This was formerly a much-frequented port, and was taken from the king of Bejapoor by the Mahratta chief Sevajee in 1670. It was also of considerable importance during the wars between Aurungzebe and the Mahrattas, and formed the principal station of the fleet. Long. 73. 3. E. Lat. 16. 48. N. It is also the name of a small village in the province of Gujerat, near its western boundary. The surrounding country is covered with thick jungle, which is the resort of numerous thieves. It is likewise the name of a town in the province of Berar, situated on the river Wurda, which here makes a considerable curve to the eastward. It is ten miles south-east from Chandah. Long. 80. E. Lat. 19. 56. N.
RAKAN, a river on the north-eastern coast of Sumatra, and the largest in the island, or rather it should be considered as an inlet of the sea. It has its rise in the interior, in the Rau country, and is navigable for sloops to a great distance from the sea. Vessels are deterred from entering it by the rapidity of the current, and by that peculiar swell known in the Ganges under the name of the “ bore.”
RAKE is a well-known instrument with teeth, by which the ground is divided. See Agriculture.
Rake of a Ship
is all that part of her hull which hangs over both ends of her keel. That which is before is called the
fore-rahe
or
rahe forward,
and that part which is at the setting on of the stem-post is called the
rake-αft
or
afterward.
RAKONITZ, a city of the Austrian kingdom of Bohemia, the capital of a circle of the same name, which extends over 896 square miles, comprehending eleven cities, eighteen towns, and 517 villages, with 144,600 inhabitants, mostly of the Sclavonian race. The city is situated on two streams, the Gelden and the Rakonitz, and has four churches, 295 houses, and 2350 inhabitants, making cotton and woollen cloths, and some hosiery and hardware. Lat. 56. 36. N.
RALEIGH, Sir Walter, fourth son of Mr Walter Raleigh of Fardel, in the parish of Cornwood, in Devonshire, was born in 1552, at Hayes, in the parish of Budley, a farm belonging to his father. About the year 1568 he was sent to Oriel College in Oxford, where he continued but a short time ; for he became one of the hundred volunteers, commanded by Henry Champernon, who, with other English troops, were sent by Queen Elizabeth to assist the queen of Navaire in defending the Protestants. He has described some of thc great battles in which he was engaged, in his History of the World. In 1577 or 1578 he proceeded to the Low Countries with the troops sent by the queen to assist the Dutch against the Spaniards, and probably shared the glory of the decisive victory obtained over Don John of Austria in 1578. On his return to England, a new enterprise engaged his attention. His half-brother, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, having obtained a patent to plant and inhabit some parts of North America, Raleigh embarked in this adventure ; but meeting with a Spanish fleet, after a smart engagement they returned, without success, in 1579.
The following year the king of Spain, in conjunction with the pope, having projected a total conquest of the English dominions, sent troops to Ireland to assist the Desmonds in the Munster rebellion. Raleigh obtained a captain’s commission under Lord Grey of Wilton, then deputy of Ireland, and embarked for that kingdom, where he greatly distinguished himself both for bravery and for skill. He returned to England, and attracted the notice of Queen Elizabeth, owing, as we are told in Naunton’s
Fragmenta Regalia, 
to the following accidental piece of gallantry. The queen, as she was one day taking a walk, being stopped by a
splashy 
place in the road, Raleigh immediately took off his new-plush mantle, and spread it on the ground. Her majesty trod gently over the soft foot-cloth. Surprised and pleased with the adventure, and much struck by the noble appearance of the young soldier, she admitted him to her court, and employed him first as an attendant on the French ambassador Simier upon his return home, and afterwards to escort the Duke of Anjou to Antwerp. During this excursion he became personally known to the Prince of Orange ; from whom, at his return, he brought especial acknowledgments to the queen, who now frequently conversed with him. But the inactive life of a courtier did not suit the enterprising spirit of Raleigh. He took advantage of his favour with the queen to obtain, in 1584, a patent empowering him to possess such countries as he should discover on the continent of North America. Accordingly he fitted out, at his own expense, two ships, which sailed in the month of April, and returned to England about the middle of September, reporting that they had discovered and taken possession of a fine country, to which the queen gave the name of
Virginia.
About this time he was elected knight of the shire for the county of Devon, and soon afterwards received the honour of knighthood ; and, to enable him to carry on his designs abroad, the queen granted him a patent for licensing the venders of wine throughout the kingdom. In 1585 he sent a new expedition to Virginia, commanded by his relation Sir Richard Greenville, who left a colony at Roanah of 107 persons, under the government of Mr Lane ; and by the establishment of this colony he was enabled to import tobacco into England. In the same year Sir Walter Rideigh obtained a grant of twelve thousand acres of the forfeited lands in the county of Cork in Ireland. About the same time he was made seneschal of the duchy of Cornwall, and warden of the Stanneries.
In the year 1587 he sent another colony to Virginia ; but his various undertakings and offices obliged him to assign his patent to a company, and the plan of colonizing was by them speedily relinquished, so that the unfortunate colonists were left to their fate. About this time we find our knight distinguished by the titles of “ Captain of the Queen’s Guards,” and “ Lieutenant-General of Cornwall.” From this period to the year 1594, he was continually engaged in projecting new expeditions, defending the kingdom from thc insults of the Spaniards, and transacting parliamentary business with equal ability and resolution. Sir Walter fell under the queen’s displeasure on account of an alleged intrigue with the daughter of Sir Nicholas Throgmorton, one of the maids of honour ; however, he married the lady, and lived with her in great conjugal harmony. During his disgrace at court he projected the conquest of Guiana in South America, and in 1595 sailed for that country, in the vain hope of discovering the golden region of
El Dorado,
supposed
