gaiety, it is admirable, and its verses became so fixed in the ' general mind that they passed into proverbs. The piece was first represented at Paris in 1668, when it was indifferently received ; but it succeeded pretty well at Versailles, and the players, elated with the success, came to awaken Racine in the middle of the night, to communicate the good news. The noise of vehicles at such an hour, in the Rue des Marais, convinced first the neighbours, and next day all Paris, that justice had avenged itself on the author of the 
Plaideurs,
by causing him to be seized and sent to the Bastille. This pleasant mistake, and the knowledge which soon became general, that the comedy had obtained the suffrage of the monarch, conciliated the favour of the loyal Parisians ; and from that time the piece has continued in possession of the stage, privileged to extort a smile, perchance a laugh, even from the iron visage of justice herself It is not true, as has sometimes been said, that the
Plaideurs
is the work of several hands. Racine may have received from his friends hints or suggestions for some scenes, and borrowed from certain
hommes de palais,
or gentlemen of the robe, some formulas and expressions foreign to his habitual studies ; but the unity of the style and the general coherence of the whole are too perfect to be the work of any but one and the same hand.
The success of the
Andromaque,
which was only equalled by that of the
Cid,
had excited envy ; perhaps, also, it had rendered the public fastidious. In 1669,
Britannicus
was coldly received, and with difficulty reached the eighth representation. At first no one felt the truth, the depth, and the force displayed in the magnificent historical picture of Nero and his court. Boileau alone was struck with its merit, and hurrying to embrace Racine, he exclaimed, “ Voila ce que vous avez fait de mieux.” This great critic was not only useful to Racine in praising his performance, his severity was of full more service in inducing him to suppress two scenes which deformed his work ; one between Burrhus and Narcissa, at the commencement of the third act ; and another, in the fifth, in which Junia is brought back into the presence of Nero.
Britannieus
was followed by 
Berenice,
which, in some respects, is one of the most remarkable of Racine’s works. At the solicitation of the celebrated Henrietta of England, Racine and Corneille both treated this subject which is so little fitted for representation, neither being aware that the other was engaged upon it. Besides the pleasure of seeing two illustrious rivals unconsciously contending for the palm, this princess secretly promised herself another, in the treatment of the heroic separation of the two august lovers ; but a premature death deprived her of the pleasure she had anticipated, in witnessing this singιdar competition. Three words of Suetonius represent the subject of the piece :
Invitus invitam dimisit ;
too slight a foundation upon which to work, and in the case of Corneille, who was now old, an ungrateful task, far more dangerous to him than even to Racine. The two rival plays were represented towards the close of 1670 ; that of Corneille at the Palais-Royal, by the company of Molière, and that of Racine at the Hôtel de Bourgogne. Corneille’s totally failed ; that of Racine had thirty consecutive representations, during which it drew tears alike from the court and the city. The great Conde replied to some criticisms which were made in his hearing in the following verses of the piece itself :
Depuis cinq ans entiers chaque jour je la vois,
Et crois toujours la voir pour la première fois.
It has been said, and even zealous admirers of Racine have confessed, that
Berenice
was not a veritable tragedy. But, tragedy or drama, what signifies the title which maybe given to it, provided we be agreed that it is a miracle of art, and that never,
in
any piece, were greater difficulties more meritoriously overcome. The style possesses exquisite beauties in detail, and an inexpressible charm pervades the diction throughout.
Bajazet
appeared in 1672, and obtained immediate vogue, partly, no doubt, from the novelty of the manners and costumes, but in a greater degree, from admiration of the force and truth with which the poet had delineated the characters of Roxana and Acomat ; two real creations, which, in spite of all its faults, will make
Bgjazet
immortal. At the same time, there is not a little truth in the remark of Corneille, that though the costumes be Turkish, tlle characters are French.
Mithridate,
which was represented for the first time in January 1678, is, according to Lallarpe1 the work where Racine appears to have come nearest to Corneille in bringing on tlle stage the great personages of antiquity, as they are delineated in history. Few characters, indeed, have, upon the whole, been more vigorously traced than that of Mithridates ; and were it not that Racine, sacrificing to the taste of the time, has made the hero amorous and jealous, Corneille would not have enjoyed unquestioned supremacy in reviving and reanimating history. Voltaire regards 
Iphigénie,
first represented in 1674, as the masterpiece of the stage. Do we desire grandeur? We find it in Achilles. Do we wish for true policy ? It is exemplified in the part of Ulysses ; a policy founded solely on the love of the public good, and equally adroit, dignified, and resolute. Clytem-nestra is the model of the lofty pathetic; Iphigenia, that of noble and touching simplicity. Agamemnon is as he should be ; and, then as to the style, Voltaire has declared it to be the true sublime. Three years elapsed between tile appearance of
Iphigénie
and that of
Phèdre,
which was first represented in 1677. The former had been the object of sundry ill-natured and depreciatory criticisms; but all these were only a feeble essay, or rather a mere foretaste, of the attacks which were now directed against the latter, chiefly at the instigation of the Duke de Nevers and tlle Duchess de Bouillon, nephew and niece of Cardinal Mazarin, the declared enemies of Racine, though for what reason does not appear. Every engine was put in action to ensure the condemnation of Racine’s
Phèdre,
and extol to the skies that of Pradon, a person of no genius, and whose name is not worth remembering, except that he was employed by the chiefs of his odious cabal to have a drama on the same subject ready for representation against the time when Racine’s was to appear. Pradon lent himself to the vengeance of these intriguers ; his
Phèdre
was represented four days after that of Racine ; and, for the moment, the cabal were successful. But, in about a year, each piece found its natural level, and Pradon and his
Phèdre
were alike forgotten or despised.
This tardy reparation, however, could not console Racine ; and, besides, it was poisoned by new indignities, which were heaped upon him by his indefatigable enemies. Disgusted with the theatre, where he had met with such injustice, he now determined to renounce it for ever ; though not more than thirty-eight years of age, and still in all the vigour and maturity of his genius. Besides, in his infancy, he had imbibed a deep sense of religion, which, suppressed for a while by his connexion with the theatre, now returned in full force. He conceived that his past life had been full of errors, nay, even tainted by vices, and, under this impression he not only resolved to write no more plays, but had even thoughts ofdevoting himself to penitence and prayer in monastic solitude. His spiritual guide, however, justly distrusting a zeal springing out of wounded feelings, advised him to marry and settle in the world; and this judicious advice Racine had the good sense to comply withal. In tlle year 1677 he married the daughter of the treasurer of Amiens, a fortunate choice, which greatly contributed to his future happiness. He next effected a reconciliation with the solitaries of Port-Royal, whose censures of dramatic composition, which had formerly offended him, he now acknow-
