which differ considerably from all the members of the two preceding families, while others are bv no means remotely allied to the salamanders. They are all aquatic ; and while some lose their gills at so early a period as to have misled observers into the belief that they never at any time possessed these organs, others retain them throughout their lives, even after the development of internal hmgs,—thus exhibiting, as we observed at the commencement of our treatise, the only truly amphibious animals of the vertebrated kingdom.
a. No apparent branchiœ.
Genus Menopoma, Harlan ;
Alrranchns,
ejusd. We have here a form resembling that of the salamanders. The eyes are obvious, the feet well developed, and there is an orifice on each side of the neck. Besides the range of delicate teeth around the jaws, there is a parallel range upon the anterior portion of the palate. The only species known is the great salamander of North America (N.
giganlea,
Barton), called Hellbender in the United States. It measures from fifteen to eighteen inches in length, the colour of a blackish blue, and dwells in the rivers of the interior, and the great lakes.@@1 See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 8.
Genus Amphiuma, Garden. The species of this genus have also an orifice on each side of the neck ; but the body is much lengthened, and the legs and feet but slightly developed. Their palatine teeth form two longitudinal rows.
Amph. tridactylum,
Cuv. is distinguished by three toes to all the feet.@@1 Another species,
Arnph. didαctylum, ( Arnph. means,
Garden and Harlan), has only two toes. The body is long and cylindrical, the head depressed and obtuse ; the tail compressed, with a sharpened ridge above, but blunt below. The fore fect are formed like tentacu-la. The colour is blackish gray above, and pale beneath, without spot or stripe. The observed size varies from six inches to two feet. This species inhabits ponds in the vicinity of New Orleans, and is met with in other parts of the southern states. It is sometimes found deeply sunk in mud, lying concealed like an earthworm, even at the depth of several feet. It is greatly dreaded, though without any reason, by the negroes, who name it the serpent of Congo.
b. Branchiœ apparent and persistant.
Genus Axolotus. The only known species of this genus, which we may name
Ax. pisciformis
(the specific title bestowed by Shaw), so entirely resembles the larva state of an aquatic salamander, that it is even yet regarded by some as an incompleted reptile. It was so regarded by Baron Cuvier in his contribution to Humboldt’s
Voyage ;
@@2 and even in his latest work he yielded rather to the opinion of others than his own conviction. “ Ce n’est encore qu’avec doute que je place l’axolote parmi les genres à branchies permanentes, mais tant des témoins assurent qu’il ne les perd pas, qui je m’y vois obligé.”@@4 The species in question measures from eight to ten inches in length, and is of a gray colour, spotted with black. It has four toes to the anterior feet, and five to the hinder, and there are three long tufted branchiæ on each side. (See Plate CCCCXXXIV. fig. 1.) It inhabits the lake on which the town of Mexico stands, and is naturally subjected at times to a low temperature. The specimens brought home by Mr Bullock were from an elevation of 8000 feet. That collector informed us that at certain seasons they stock the markets, and are eaten in great quantities by the peasants. Sir Everard Home has published an account of their anatomical structure. He is decidedly of opinion that they are not larvæ, but completed reptiles.@@5
Genus Menobranchus, Harlan ;
Ntcturus,
Rafinesque. Here there are only four toes to each foot. (See Plate CCCCXXXIV. fig. 2.) There is a single range of teeth on the Intermaxillaries, and another, parallel, but more extended, on the maxillaries. The best-known species is
M. lateralis ( Triton lateralis,
Say), a large reptile, which sometimes attains the length of two or three feet, and inhabits the great lakes of North America.@@6
Genus Proteus, Laurenti. Distinguished by having three toes to the anterior feet, and only two to the hinder. The Onlyknown species is P.
anguinus (Sircnanguina, 
Schneid.), an animal resembling an eel with legs, of a pale rose or flesh colour, and measuring from ten to twelve inches in length, with a diameter seldom exceeding half an inch. The muzzle is depressed and elongated ; both jaws are furnished with teeth, and the tongue is free in front, but not very moveable. The eye is excessively small, and covered over by a kind of tegument. The ears are also covered over more substantially, as among the salamanders. Besides the internal lungs, there are three feathered gills or branchiæ on each side of the posterior portion of the head. The skeleton resembles that of the salamanders, except that there are many more vertebræ, and fewer rudiments of ribs. The osteology of the head, however, is entirely different, and approximates that of the siren. The heart, composed of a single ventricle and auricle, is placed between the fore legs, and the lungs have the form of simple slender tubes, terminated by a vesicular dilatation. This truly remarkable reptile is found occasionally in a noted and romantic lake called Zirknitz (the Lugea Palus of the ancients), about six German miles from Labac, in the duchy of Carniola. From this lake, as extraordinary as its slimy inhabitant, the waters retire during the summer season by numerous subterranean outlets, leaving the ground fit for pasture and the cultivation of millet. In the month of October they return again with great force, springing out of the subterranean passages from a vast depth, till the lake is amply filled. It is situated in a hollow or valley, surrounded by rocky and wooded hills, in which are great caverns, and is supplied by rivulets running into it from the adjoining mountain regions. According to M. Schreibers, to whom we owe the first correct account of the proteus,@@7 its proper locality is Lake Sittich, one of several which communicate with that already named. Its more characteristic abode is probably among the subterranean canals which are known to connect together those peculiar lakes of Car-niola. All its characters, in fact, present the aspect of a subterranean animal. It has a pale, bleached, ghost-like aspect, and its small, opake, skin-covered eyes bear but small resemblance to the brilliant visual organs of other reptiles.
We come, finally, to the genus Siren, Linn., in which the posterior legs are entirely wanting, and the anterior pair furnished with four toes. We have it in our power to state several particulars in the history and structure of a species of this genus from personal observation,—a mode of acquiring knowledge which, however desirable, has by no means been granted us in regard to the majority of the groups discussed in this exposition of the reptile race. We never, like Colonel Bory St Vincent, tossed a salamander into the fire,—we never, like Mr Waterton, rode on the back of an alligator,—we never waded waist deep, with Mr Audubon, among hundreds of these huge reptiles,—we never sailed, like Wordsworth’s Highland boy, in a turtle’s
1
@@@
   Μim. du Mas.
xiv. pl. 1 ; and
Journal of the Academy of Sciences of Philadelphia,
vol. ill.
2
@@@3
Recherches sur tes Reptiles douteux,
p. 123.    @@@4
Rigne Animal,
ii. 119.
