tion a-head of the body, the statical pressure arising from the depression behind it, the effects of friction, and the effects of tenacity. It is indeed next to impossible to estimate them separately, and many of them are actually combined in the measures now given. Nothing can determine the pure non-pressures till we can ascertain the motions of the filaments.    '
Du Buat here takes occasion to controvert the universally adopted maxim, that the pressure occasioned by a stream of fluid on a fixed body is the same with that on a body moving with equal velocity in a quiescent fluid. He repeated all these experiments with the perforated box in still water. The general distinction was, that both the pressures and the non-pressure in this case were less, and that the differences were chiefly observed near the edges of the surface. The general factor of the pressure of a stream on the anterior surface was
m
= Ll 86 ; but that on a moving body through a still fluid is only tn = 1. He observed no non-pressure even at the very edge of the prow, but even a sensible pressure. The pressure, therefore, or resistance, is more equally diffused over the surface of the prow than the impulse is. He also found that the resistances diminished in a less ratio than the squares of the velocities, especially in small velocities.
The non-pressures increased in a greater ratio than the squares of the velocities. The ratio of the velocities to a small velocity of 2¼ inches per second increased geometrically, the value of
q
increased arithmetically ; and we may determine
q
for any velocity
v
by this formula,
q —
∖
.    V    .
'0 8* 0^^7 ’ that 1s > let t he common logarithm of the ve-
locity in inches, divided by 2¼, be considered as a common number ; divide this common number by 2γ¼, the quotient is
q,
which must be multiplied by the productive height. The product is the pressure.
When Pitot’s tube was exposed to the stream, we had »i=l; but when it is carried through still water,
m
is = 1∙22. Whcn it was turned from the stream, we had
q 
= 0*157 ; but when carried through still water, 7 is = 0∙138. A remarkable experiment.
When the tube was moved laterally through the water, so that the motion was in the direction of the plane of its mouth, the non-pressure was = 1. This is one of his chief arguments for his theory of non-pressure. He does not give the detail of the experiment, and only inserts the result in his table.
As a body exposed to a stream deflects the fluid, heaps it up, and increases its velocity ; so a body moved through a still fluid turns it aside, causes it to swell up before it, and gives it a real motion alongside of it in the opposite direction. And as the body exposed to a stream has a quantity of fluid almost stagnant both before and behind ; so a body moved through a still fluid carries before it and drags after it a quantity of fluid, which accompanies it w'ith nearly an equal velocity. This addition to the quantity of matter in motion must make a diminution of its velocity ; and this forms a very considerable part of the observed resistance.
We cannot, however, help remarking, that it would require very distinct and strong proof iπdecd to overturn the common opinion, which is founded on our most certain and simple conceptions of motion, and on a law of nature to which we have never observed an exception. Du Buat’s experiments, though most judiciously contrived, and executed with scrupulous care, are by no means of this kind. They were, of absolute necessity, very complicated ; and many circumstances, impossible to avoid or to appreciate, rendered the observation, or at least the comparison, of the velocities, very uncertain.
We can see but two circumstances which do not admit
of
an easy or immediate comparison in the two states of the
problem. When a body is exposed to a stream
in our experiments,
in order to have an impulse made on it, there is a force tending to move the body backwards, independent of the real impulse or pressure occasioned by the deflection of the stream. We cannot have a stream except in consequence of a sloping surface. Suppose a body floating on this stream. It will not only sail down
along with the stream,
but it will sail
down the stream,
and will therefore go faster along the canal than the stream does ; for it is floating on an inclined plane ; and if we examine it by the law's of hydrostatics, we shall find, that besides its own tendency to
slide
down this inclined plane, there is an odds of hydrostatical pressure, which
pushes
it down this plane. It will therefore go along the canal faster than the stream. For this acceleration depends on the difference of pressure at the two ends, and will be more remarkable as the body is larger, and especially as it is longer. This may be distinctly observed. All floating bodies go into the stream of the river, because there they find the smallest obstruction to the acquisition of this motion along the inclined plane ; and when a number of bodies are thus floating down the stream, the largest and longest outstrip the rest. A log of wood floating down in this manner may be observed to make its way very fast among the chips and saw-dust which float alongside of it.
Now when, in the course of our experiments, a body is supported against the action of the stream, and the impulse is measured by the force employed to support it, it is plain that part of this force is employed to act against that tendency which the body has to outstrip the stream. This does not appear in our experiment, when we move a body with the velocity of this stream through still water having a horizontal surface.
The other distinguishing circumstance is, that the retardations of a stream arising from friction are found to be nearly as the velocities. When, therefore, a stream moving in a limited canal is checked by a body put in its way, the diminution of velocity occasioned by the friction of the stream having already produced its effect, the impulse is not affected by it ; but when the body puts the still water in motion, the friction of the bottom produces some effect, by retarding the recess of the water. This, however, must be next to nothing.
The chief difference will arise from its being almost impossible to make an exact comparison of tlle velocities ; for when a body is moved against the stream, the relative velocity is the same in all the filaments. But when we expose a body to a stream, the velocity of the different filaments is not the same, because it decreases from the middle of the stream to the sides.
Du Buat found the total sensible resistance of a plate twelve inches square, and measured, not by the height of water in the tube of the perforated box, but by weights acting on the arm of a balance, having its centre fifteen inches under the surface of a stream moving three feet per second, to be 19*46 lbs. ; that of a cube of the same dimensions was 15*22 lbs. ; that of a prism three feet long was 13*87 lbs. ; and that of a prism six feet long was 14*27 lbs. The first three agree extremely well with the determination of w and 7, by the experiments with the perforated box. The total resistance of the last was undoubtedly much increased by friction, and by the retrograde force of so long a prism floating in an inclined stream. This last by computation is 0*223 lbs. ; this added to
h (m
+ 7), which is 13*39 lbs., gives 13*81 lbs., leaving 0*46 lb. for the effect of friction.
If the same resistances be computed on the supposition that the body moves in still water, in which case we have 
m
= 1, and for a thin plate 7 = — log. ~, whence, supposing the velocity to be thirty-six inches per second,
