That monopoly has still many defenders, must be allowed ; but they defend it only because they are interested in its support. The most enlarged principles are now supported by all the leading members of both houses. All are now ready to admit that the exclusive system is founded on vicious principles ; that it is not calculated to accelerate, but to retard, the progress of those nations by whom it is adopted ; and that it is sound policy to admit the freest competition in every branch of industry, and to deal with all the world on fair and liberal principles. The writings and the speeches of Mr Ricardo contributed more than those of any other individual to accomplish this salutary and desirable change. As he was known to be a master in “ the master science of civil life,” his opinion, from the moment he entered the House of Commons, was referred to on all important occasions ;@@1 and he acquired a constant accession of influence and consideration, according as experience served to render the house and the country better acquainted with the rare and excellent qualities of his mind, and the singleness of his heart.
In 1820 Mr Ricardo was prevailed on to furnish an article on the “ Funding System” for the Supplement to the Encyclopædia Britannica. This tract, though somewhat confused and perplexed in its arrangement, embraces many admirable discussions. Mr Ricardo was a decided friend to the plan for raising the supplies for a war within the year, by an equivalent increase of taxation ; and he was also of opinion that it would be both expedient and practicable to pay off the public debt by an assessment on capital. In this article he has endeavoured, if not with perfect success, at least with great ingenuity, to defend both projects from the objections commonly urged against them.
In 1822, during the parliamentary discussions on the subject of the corn laws, Mr Ricardo published his pamphlet on “ Protection to Agriculture.” This is the best of all his pamphlets, and is, indeed, a
chef-d’œuvre.
The various and important questions respecting remunerating price, the influence of a low and high value of corn on wages and profits, the effects of taxation on agriculture and manufactures, and many other topics of equal difficulty and interest, are all discussed in the short compass of eighty or ninety pages, with a precision and clearness that leaves nothing to be desired. Even if Mr Ricardo had never written anything else, this pamphlet would have placed him in the very first rank Of political economists.
Though not robust, Mr Ricardo’s constitution was apparently good, and his health such as to promise a long life of usefulness. He had indeed been subject for several years to an affection in one of his ears ; but as it had never given him any serious inconvenience, he paid little attention to it. When he retired to his seat in Gloucestershire, subsequently to the close of the session of 1823, he was in excellent health and spirits ; and besides completing a tract, containing a plan for the establishment of a national bank, he had engaged, with his usual ardour, in profound and elaborate inquiries in relation to the theory of value. But he was not destined to bring this investigation to a close. In the beginning of September he was suddenly seized with a violent pain in the diseased ear : the symptoms were not, however, considered as unfavourable ; and the breaking of an impos-tfrume that had formed within it contributed greatly to his relief. But the amendment was only transitory ; within two days inflammation recommenced ; and after a period of indescribable agony, pressure on the brain ensued, which produced a stupor that continued until death terminated his sufferings on the 11 th of September.
In private life Mr Ricardo was most amiable. He was a kind and indulgent father and husband, and a warm, affectionate, and zealous friend. No man was ever more thoroughly free from every species of artifice and pretension. He was sincere, plain, and unassuming, at once thc firmest and the gentlest of human beings. He was particularly fond of assembling intelligent men around him, and of conversing in the freest and most unrestrained manner on all topics of interest, but more especially on those connected with his favourite science. He was always ready to give way to others, and never discovered the least impatience to speak ; but when he did speak, the extent and accuracy of his knowledge, the solidity of his judgment, his perfect candour, and his peculiar and extraordinary talent for resolving a question into its elements, and for setting the most difficult and complicated subject in the clearest and most striking point of view, arrested the attention of every one, and made him the delight and idol of all who had the happiness to hear him. Mr Ricardo never entered into an argument, whether in public or private, for the sake of displaying ingenuity, of baffling an opponent, or of gaining a victory ; he was an entire stranger to such motives. The discovery of truth was his exclusive object. He was ever open to conviction ; and if he was satisfied that he had either advanced or supported an erroneous opinion, he was the first to acknowledge his error, and to caution others against it.
Few men ever possessed in a higher degree than Mr Ricardo the talent of speaking and conversing with clearness and facility on the most abstruse and difficult subjects. In this respect his speeches were greatly superior to his publications. The latter cannot be readily understood and followed without considerable attention ; but nothing could exceed the ease and felicity with which he illustrated and explained the most refined and delicate questions of political economy, both in private conversation and in his speeches. Without being forcible, his style of speaking was easy, fluent, and agreeable. It was impossible to take him off his guard. To those who were not familiar with his speculations, some of his positions were apt to appear paradoxical ; but the paradox was only in appearance. He never advanced an opinion on which he had not deeply reflected, and without examining it in every point of view ; and the readiness with which he met and overthrew the most specious objections that the ablest men in the house could state to his doctrines, is the best proof of their correctness, and of the superiority and acuteness of his understanding. That there were greater orators, and men of more varied and general acquirements, in parliament than Mr Ricardo, we readily allow ; but we are hold to say, that in point of deep, clear, and comprehensive intellect, he had no superiors, and very few, if any, equals, either in parliament or the country.
Mr Ricardo was not less generous than intelligent ; he was never slow to come forward to the relief of the poor and the distressed ; and while he contributed to almost every charitable institution in the metropolis, he supported at his own expense an alms-house for the poor, and two schools for the instruction of the young in the vicinity of his seat in the country.
Besides the publications previously enumerated, Mr Ricardo left several manuscripts. Among others, a “ Plan for the Establishment of a National Bank” was found in a finished state, and has since been published. In this pamphlet he has endeavoured to show that the power of issuing paper-money might be safely placed in the hands of commissioners appointed by government ; and that, while such a plan would be productive of no inconvenience, it would most probably save the public a considerable sum annually.
Mr Ricardo also left very full Notes on Mr Malthus’s
@@@1 Mr Ricardo made tile first of his prominent appearances on the 24th of May 1819, in the debate on the resolutions proposed by Mr Peel respecting the resumption of cash payments. He did not rise until he was loudly called upon from all sides of the House.
