experience, that the resistance of a globe or of a pointed body is as great as that of its circular base. He supposes the two bodies placed in a tube or canal ; and since they are supposed of the same diameter, and therefore leave equal spaces at their sides, he concludes, that because the water escapes by their sides with the same velocity, they will have the same resistance. But this is by no means a necessary consequence. Even if the water should be allowed to exert equal pressures on them, the pressures being perpendicular to their surfaces, and these surfaces being inclined to the axis, while in the case of the base of a cylinder it is in the direction of the axis, there must be a difference in the accumulated or compound pressure in the direction of the axis. He indeed says, that in the case of the cylinder or the circle obstructing the canal, a quantity of water remains stagnant on its upper surface, viz. all the water whose motion would not contribute to the most ready passage of the fluid between the cylinder and the sides of the canal or tube ; and that this water may be considered as frozen. If this be the case, it is indifferent what is the form of the body that is covered with this mass of frozen or stagnant water. It may be a hemisphere or a cone ; the resistance will be the same. But Newton by no means assigns, elther with precision or with distinct evidence, the form and magnitude of this stagnant water, so as to give confidence in the results. He contents himself with saying, that it is that water whose motion is not necessary, or cannot contribute to the most easy passage of the water. There remains, therefore, many imperfections in this theory.
In the second volume of the
Comment. Petropol.
1727, Daniel Bernoulli proposes a formula for the resistance of fluids, deduced from considerations quite different from those on which Newton founded his solution. But he delivers it with diffidence, because he found that it gave a resistance four times greater than experiment. In the same dissertation he determines the resistance of a sphere to be one half of that of its great circle. But in his subsequent theory of Hydrodynamics (a work which must ever rank among the first productions of the age, being equally remarkable for refined and elegant mathematics, and ingenious and original thoughts in dynamics), he calls this determination in question. It is indeed founded on the same hypothetical principles which have been unskilfully detached from the rest of Newton’s physics, and made the groundwork of all the subsequent theories on this subject.
In 1741, Daniel Bernoulli published another dissertation (in the eighth volume of the
Com. Petrop
∣
d.)
on the action and resistance of fluids, limited to a very particular case ; namely, to tlle impulse of a vein of fluid falling perpendicularly on an infinitely extended plane surface. This he demonstrates to be equal to the weight of a column of the fluid whose base is the area of the vein, and whose height is twice the fall producing the velocity. This demonstration is drawn from the true principles of mechanics and the acknowledged laws of hydraulics, and may be received as a strict physical demonstration. As it is the only proposition in the whole theory that has as yet received a demonstration accessible to readers not versant in all the refinements of modern analysis, and as the principles on which it proceeds will undoubtedly lead to a solution of every problem which can be proposed, when our mathematical knowledge shall enable us to apply them, we think it our duty to give the demonstration in this place, although we must acknowledge that it will hardly bear an application to any case in which the conditions are even slightly varied. There do occur cases however in practice, where it may be applied to very great advantage.
Bernoulli first determines the whole action exerted in the efflux of the vein of fluid. Suppose the velocity of efflux
v
is that which would be acquired by falling through the height
h.
It is well known that a body moving during
the time of this fall with the velocity
v
would describe a space = 2Λ. The effect, therefore, of the hydraulic action is, that in the time
t
of the fall A, there issues a cylinder or prism of water whose base is the cross section s or area of the vein, and whose length is 2Λ. And this quantity of matter is now moving with the velocity
v.
The quantity of motion, therefore, which is thus produced in the time <, is
2shv.
And this is the accumulated effect of all the expelling forces estimated in the direction of the efflux. Now, to compare this with the exertion of some pressure with which we are familiarly acquainted, let us suppose this pillar 2sA to be frozen, and, being held in the hand, to be dropped. It is well known, that in the time
t
it will fall through the height A, and will acquire the velocity
v,
and now possesses the quantity of motion
2shv ;
and all this is the effect of its weight. The weight, therefore, of the pillar 2iA produces the same effect, and in the same time, and (as may easily be seen) in the same gradual manner, with the expelling forces of the fluid in the vessel, which expelling forces arise from the pressure of all the fluid in the vessel. Therefore the accumulated hydraulic pressure by which a vein of a heavy fluid is forced out through an orifice in the bottom or side bf a vessel, is equal (when estimated in the direction of the efflux) to the weight of a column of the fluid having for its base the section of the vein, and twice the fall productive of the velocity of efflux for its height.
Now let ABDC be a quadrangular vessel with upright plane sides, in one of which is an orifice EF. From every point of the circumference of this orifice,
Suppose horizontal lines Ee, F/j &c. which will mark a similar surface on the opposite side oft he vessel. Suppose the orifice EF to be shut. There can be no doubt but that the surfaces EF and
ef
will be equally pressed in opposite directions. Now open the orifice EF ; the water will rush out, and the pressure on EF is nowremoved. There will therefore be a tendency in the vessel to move back in the direction Ee. And this tendency must be precisely equal and opposite to the whole effort of the expelling forces. This is a conclusion as evident as any proposition in mechanics. It is thus that a gun recoils and a rocket rises in the air ; and on this is founded the operation of Barker’s mill, described in all treatises of mechanics.
Now let this stream of water be received on a circular plane MN, perpendicular to its axis, and let this circular plane be of such extent that the vein escapes from its sides in an infinitely thin sheet, the water flowing off in a direction parallel to the plane. The vein by this means will expand into a trumpet-shaped figure, or conoid, having curved sides, EKG, FLH. We abstract at present the action of gravity which would cause the vein to bend downwards, and occasion a greater velocity kt H than at G ; and we suppose the velocity equal in every point of the circumference. It is plain that if the action of gravity be neglected after the water has issued through the orifice EF, the velocity in every point of the circumference of the plane MN will be that of the efflux through EF.
Now, because EKG is the figure assumed by tlle vein, it is plain that if the whole vein were covered by a tube or funnel, fitted to its shape, and perfectly polished, so that the water shall glide along it without any friction (a thing which we may always suppose), the water will exert no pressure whatever on this tube. Lastly, let us suppose that the plane MN is attached to the tube by some bits of wire, so as to allow the water to escape all round by the narrow chink between the tube and the plane. We have now a vessel consisting of the upright part ABDC, the conoid GKEFLH, and the plane MN ; and the water is escaping
