serpens, Anguis quadrupes,
&c. which certain species bore); their legs are extremely small, and the two pairs placed at a great distance from each other. (See Plate CCCCXXXII. fig. 4.) The lungs in this genus begin to exhibit an inequality of size. Indeed, we may here observe, that in the few remaining groups of Saurian reptiles with which we are still to be engaged, there is a manifest approximation to the true serpents or ophidian race, in the diminution of the feet, the entire disappearance, in certain species, of either the anterior or posterior pair, and the elongated form of the body. Indeed, on the one hand,
Lacerta αpodα
of Pallas is actually now classed with the Ophidians (being placed at their head), although on each side of the anus there is a prominence containing a small bone analogous to the femur, and pertaining to a true pelvis concealed beneath the skin ; while on the other, certain systematic writers range our 
Anguis fragilis,
and other snakes usually so called, among the Saurian reptiles. But to return to our remaining genera, which may really be said to hold their legs and feet by a precarious tenure,so subjectare they to variation—the five-toed seps («S'.
Pentadactylus, Lac. serpens,
Linn.) inhabits
tlle 
East Indies, while a four-toed species (N.
tetradactylus),
and a third with only three toes («S’,
tridactylus),
both being viviparous, occur in the Isle de Crès. Another three-toed species (N.
chaleides)
is native to tlle south of Europe, and is named
cecella
by the Italians. It dwells in meadows, feeding on spiders, slugs, &c. and runs rapidly by means of a snake-like wriggling motion, without using its feet. It is also viviparous. A more peculiar kind, known under the name of serpent-lizard («S',
monodαctylus, Lac. anguina, 
Linn.), occurs at the Cape of Good Hope. Its legs are nothing more than small footless undivided appendages. This is the
vermis Scrpcntiformis ex Africa
of Seba, said by some authors to be found “ in great plenty in the water and about the rocks in Table Bay.”
The genus Bipes, Lacep., makes a still nearer approach to the serpents, as its name indicates. It scarcely differs from
Seps,
except in the entire absence of the fore-legs. It forms as it were the stepping-stone to
Anguis.
(See Plate CCCCXXXIL fig. 5.) A species from New Holland 
(B. Iepidopoda,
Lacep.), examined by Baron Cuvier, although its hinder extremities showed themselves externally only under the form of a pair of small oblong scaly plates, was yet found on dissection to possess a femur, tibia, peroneum, and four metatarsal bones without phalanges. To this genus likewise belongs an African species, the
Anguis bipes, 
Linn., and another of larger size from Brazil, described by Spix under the name of
Pygopus cariοcocca.
The genus called Ciialcides by Daudin is likewise characterized by a long and serpent-like body, but there are four legs (as in
Seps),
and the scales, instead of overlapping like tiles, are rectangular, and form transverse bands, which do not encroach upon each other. See Plate CCCCXXXIL fig. 6.
Certain species have a groove on each side of the body, and the tympanum still very obvious. Of thcse, an East Indian kind(
Chal. seps, Lac. seps,
Linn.) has five toes, while another ( C, ∕ια∕.
tetradactylus)
has only four. Others have the tympanum concealed, and conduct directly to
Chirotes,
and through it to the ophidian genus
Arnphisbwna.
Examples, 
ChaL Pentadactylus,
which, as its name implies, is a fivetoed species, and
Chab Iwtcrodactylus (Het. imbricatus, 
Spix), which has four toes to the front feet and five to the hinder.
Chal. abdominalis,
Thunberg, has four toes on each foot. Lastly,
Chal.flavescens,
Gray
(Chαl. mono-dactylus,
Daudin), is distinguished by five anterior and three posterior toes, so reduced in size as to resemble small tubercles, and so ill defined by nature (to our perceptions, though no doubt wisely formed in relation to the end in view) that zoologists still differ as to their exact amount. The species alluded to is native to Guiana.
The genus Chirotes, Cuv. resembles
Chalcides
in its verticillated scales, and is allied to
Amphisbwna
by the blunted form of its head ; but it is distinguished from the former by the absence of the hind legs, and from the latter by the presence of the fore ones. (See Plate CCCCXXXIL fig. 7.) The only known species is the lumbriciform lizard of Shaw (
Chir. Iumbricoides,—Canaliculatus
of Lac
.),
a native of Mexico, and first described by Lacépède. It has two short anterior feet (each with four toes, and the rudiments of a fifth), well organized interiorly, and attached to a small sternum by means of shoulder-blades and clavicles ; but the head, vertebræ, and the general skeleton, closely resemble those of the genus Amphisbæna. It is of a flesh colour, and measures eight or ten inches long, with a circumference like that of the little finger. It is surrounded by about 220 semi-rings upon the back, and as many on the abdomen, which meet upon the sides in alternation. The tongue of this species is but slightly extensile, and terminates in two little horny points. Its eye is extremely small, and the tympanum invisible outwardly, being covered by the skin. On dissection Baron Cuvier could detect in this reptile only a single large lung, with the vestige of a small one, as in serpents. It preys on insects.
Order IIU-OPHIDIA. OPHIDIAN REPTILES.
This great division is distinguished by the absence of legs and other external members, and includes all manner of snakes and serpents. The expected completion of the 
Erpétologie Générale
of MM. Duméril and Bibron would have enabled us to present a more satisfactory sketch of their history and habits (which have been greatly embroiled by many modern authors), than we can otherwise attain to ; but the French writers just named have not as yet published the result of their labours among the ophidian tribes. In the mean time, we think it advisable to delay their consideration to a future time. Therefore see in this work the term Serpents.
Order IV.—BATRACHIA. BATRACHIAN REPTILES.
We now proceed to the fourth order of the class Reptilia, the Batrachia, a name derived from Bαrjαχof,
a frog,
and expressive of a general resemblance which very distinctly marks the majority, although in truth many resemble lizards, and a few have more the appearance of eels or serpents. This tribe is one of the most singular in nature ; for, besides the naked body and remarkable sanguineous circulation, they possess another peculiarity, which is regarded by many naturalists as sufficient to constitute them a distinct class rather than an order, viz. the change of form which they undergo in their progress from the young to the adult state.
In this concluding order are ranked all those reptiles which have neither the carapace of the Chelonia nor the scales of the other orders.@@1 Their bodies therefore are naked ; their head is without any distinct neck or division ; their toes are always distinct and without claws ; they have no external organs of reproduction, and usually undergo metamorphoses. This change of form constitutes the Ba-trachia the principal step in the transition between terrestrial and aquatic vertebrata or fishes, and is one of the most singular phenomena presented by animal life. Bred
1
@@@ A curious link, we perceive, has recently been discovered in South America, between the Batraehia and the Chelonia1 which is nothing less than a frog furnished with a carapace and plastron.
