no duty upon which the Christian religion puts a greater value than alms-giving, and every preacher of the gospel has an undoubted right to inculcate the practice of it upon his audience ; but even this right is imperfect, for he cannot refuse the communion to a man merely on account of his illiberality to the poor, as he can to another for the neglect of any duty comprehended under the term justice. In elections or appointments to offices, where the qualifications are prescribed, the best-qualified candidate has unquestionably a right to success ; yet if he be rejected, he can neither seize the office by force, nor obtain redress at law. His right, therefore, is imperfect.
Here a question naturally offers itself to our consideration : “ How comes a person to have a right to a thing, and yet have no right to use the means necessary to obtain it ?” The answer is, that in such cases the object or the circumstances of the right are so indeterminate, that the permission of force, even where tlle right is real and certain, would lead to force in other cases where there exists no right at all. Thus, though the poor man has a right to relief, who shall ascertain the mode, season, and extent of it, or the person by whom it shall be administered ? These things must be ascertained before the right to relief can be enforced by law ; but to allow them to be ascertained by the poor themselves, would be to expose property to endless claims. In like manner, the comparative qualifications of the candidate must be ascertained, before he can enforce his right to the office ; but to allow him to ascertain his qualifications himself, would be to make him judge in his own cause between himself and his neighbour.
Wherever tlle right is imperfect cn one side, the corresponding obligation on the other must be imperfect likewise. The violation of it, however, is often not less criminal in a moral and religious view, than of a perfect obligation. It is well observed by Paley, that greater guilt is incurred by disappointing a worthy candidate of a place upon which perhaps his livelihood depends, and in which he could eminently serve the public, than by filching a book out of a library, or picking a pocket cf a handkerchief. The same sentiment has been expressed by Mr Godwin, but in terms much too strong. “ My neighbour,” says he, “ has just as much right to put an end to my existence with dagger or poison, as to deny me that pecuniary assistance without which I must starve, or as to deny me that assistance without which my intellectual attainments or my moral exertions will be materially injured. He has just as much right to amuse himself with burning my house, or torturing my children upon the rack, as to shut himself up in a cell, careless about his fellow men, and to hide ‘ his talent in a napkin.’ ” It is certainly true, that the man who should suffer another to starve for want of that relief which he
knew
that he
alone 
could afford him, would be guilty of murder, and murder of the cruelest kind ; but there is an immense difference between depriving society of one of its members, and withholding from that member what might be necessary to enable him to make the greatest possible intellectual attainments. Newton might have bcen useful and happy though he had never been acquainted with the elements of mathematics.
Rights are
particular
or
general.
Particular rights are such as belong to certain individuals or orders of men, and not to others. The rights of kings, of masters, of husbands, of wives, and, in short, all the rights which originate in society, are particular. General rights are those which belong to the species collectively. Such are our rights to the vegetable produce of the earth and to the flesh of animals for food. If the vegetable produce of the earth be included under the general rights of mankind, it is plain that he is guilty of wrong who leaves any considerable portion of land waste merely for his own amusement : he is lessening the common stock of provision which Providence intended to distribute among the species. On this principle it would not be easy to vindicate certain regulations respecting game, as well as some other monopolies which are protected by the municipal laws of most countries. Dr Paley, by just reasoning, has established this conclusion, “ that nothing ought to be made exclusive property which can be conveniently enjoyed in common.” An equal division of land, however, the dream of some visionary reformers, would be injurious to the general rights of mankind, as it may be demonstrated that it wτ ould lessen the common stock of provisions, by laying every man under the necessity of being his own w, eaver, tailor, shoemaker, smith, and carpenter, as well as ploughman, miller, and baker.
Among the general rights of mankind is the right of
necessity ;
by which a man may use or destroy his neighbour’s property when it is absolutely necessary for his own pre-servatlon. It is on this principle that goods are thrown overboard to save the ship, and houses pulled down to stop the progress of a fire. In such cases, however, there must be restitution when it is in our power.
Rights,
Bill of
a Declaration delivered by the lords and commons to the prince and princess of Orange, 13th February 1688 ; and afterwards enacted in parliament when they became king and queen. It sets forth, that King James did, by the assistance of divers evil counsellors, endeavour to subvert the laws and liberties of this kingdom, by exercising a power of dispensing with and suspending of laws ; by levying money for the use of the crown by pretence of prerogative without consent of parliament ; by prosecuting those who petitioned the king, and discouraging petitions ; by raising and keeping a standing army in time of peace ; by violating the freedom of election of members to serve in parliament ; by violent prosecutions in the court of king’s bench ; and causing partial and corrupt jurors to be returned on trials, excessive bail to be taken, excessive fines to be imposed, and cruel punishments inflicted ; all which were declared to be illegal. . And the declaration concludes in these remarkable words : '“ And they do claim, demand, and insist upon, all and singular the premises, as their undoubted rights and liberties.” And the act of parliament itself (1 W. and M. stat. ii. cap. 2) recognises “ all and singular the rights and liberties, asserted and claimed in the said declaration, to be the true, ancient, indubitable rights of the people of this kingdom.”
RIGOLL, or Regals, a kind of musical instrument, consisting of several sticks bound together, only separated by beads. It is tolerably harmonious, being well struck with a ball at the end of a stick. Such is the account which Grassineau gives of this instrument. Skinner, upon the authority of an old English dictionary, represents it as a clavichord, or claricord ; possibly founding his opinion on the nature of the office of the tuner of the régals, who still subsists in the establishment of the king’s chapel at St James’s, and whose business is to keep the organ of the chapel-royal in tune ; and not knowing that such wind-instruments as the organ need fτequent tuning, as well as the clavichord and other stringed instruments. Sir Henry Spelman derives the word
rigυ!l
from the Italian
rigobello,
a musical instrument, anciently used in churches instead of the organ. Walther, in his description of the regal, makes it to be a reed-work in an organ, with metal and also wooden pipes and bellows adapted to it. And he adds, that tlle name of it is supposed to be owing to its having been presented by the inventor to some king. From an account of the regal used in Germany and other parts of Europe, it appears to consist of pipes and keys on one side, and the bellows and wind-chest on the other. We may add, that Lord Bacon, Nat. Hist. cent. ii. 102, distinguishes between the regal and organ, in a manner which shows them to be instruments of the same class. Upon the whole, there is reason to conclude, that the regal or rigoll was a pneu-
