quillity. They voluntarily submitted to that conqueror, from whom they experienced great favour ; but no sooner did they hear of his death than they took up arms against the Macedonian garrisons, and expelled tlιem. About this period the city of Rhodes and the inhabitants suffered severely from a dreadful inundation, which was accompanied with violent showers of rain ; and hailstones of an extraordinary size beat down many houses, and killed a number of the inhabitants. By the bursting of the wall the extraordinary accumulation of water was allowed a free passage to the sea, by which the danger was removed. From the effects of this unexpected disaster the Rhodians quickly recovered, by their close application to navigation and trade ; and during the wars that took place among Alexander’s successors they observed a strict neutrality, and gradually grew to be one of the most opulent states of the age. They were, however, connected in strict alliance with Ptolemy of Egypt, with whom Antigonus being at war, he demanded succours of them, which they refusing, drew on themselves the full weight of his hostility. He accordingly sent his son Demetrius with an immense armament provided with all sorts of machines for war and sieges, and an army of 40,000 troops, who laid siege to their city. This remarkable siege lasted for a year, and called forth on the part of the Rhodians the most brilliant efforts of valour and patriotism. Demetrius, with all his knowledge of the known resources of war, and all his skill to invent new machines of unheard-of power and magnitude, was finally repulsed, with a prodigious slaughter of his bravest troops, and the loss of his military fame. The Rhodians after this siege applied themselves as before to commerce and navigation, and Rhodes became a flourishing city. In the year 203 before the Christian era the Rhodians were engaged in a war with Philip of Macedon, in which being assisted by the Romans, it was terminated to their advantage. In the wars that followed with the Romans and Antiochus, and afterwards with Mithridates, the Rhodians were useful allies of the former, whom they assisted with their naval power. In the civil wars of Rome they aided Pompey against Cæsar; and after his death they joined Ciesar, which drew on them the resentment of Cassius, by whom their city was taken and plundered. Their privileges were restored by Marc Antony ; but the island was finally reduced into a Roman province during the reign of Vespasian. Rhodes continued under the Roman dominion, and was little heard of in history, till, on the downfall of the eastern empire, the island became one of the last retreats of the knights of Jerusalem, under whose rule it became illustrious by its heroic resistance to the Turkish conquerors, then at the utmost height of their power. They baffled by their valour the efforts of Mahommed II., the conqueror of Constantinople ; and they sustained a memorable and sanguinary siege from Solyman the Great, who invested the city with a fleet of 400 sail and 140,000 troops. He was often repulsed by the brave knights with great slaughter ; and he only made his way over the ruins of the city by the effect of numbers. A capitulation was at length agreed upon, by which the island was surrendered to tlle Turks, under whose dominion it has ever since continued.
Rhodes is the capital of the above island, and stands on the site of the ancient city, though it is not above the fourth part of its extent. It is situated to the north-east of the island ; and from a distance, its advantageous position at the extremity of a promontory, its magnificent buildings, the strength and solidity of its walls, and its towers planted on rising rocks, still impress an idea of its ancient grandeur. The interior of the city does not correspond to its outward appearance. Those ancient streets which were laid out with such art and on so great a scale, and that uniform series of buildings which were monuments of taste, have been succeeded by narrow winding streets, and buildings without grace, ornament, or regularity. There are still some monuments which testify that the island was once possessed by the knights of Rhodes, namely, their arms, and the several busts of the grand-masters, which were engraved on marble, and still adorn the fronts of several buildings ; the walls and towers also bear marks of their heroic resistance to the Ottoman arms. But there is no longer any monument of its grandeur in times of antiquity ; there is no theatre, no magnificent temples nor spacious porticoes. The statues, colossi, and paintings for which Rhodes was famed in the early agcs of Greece and Rome, have all been removed. Not a vestige is to be seen of the colossus described as seventy cubits high, and reckoned one of the wonders of the world. The streets bear everywhere marks of desolation. One half of the houses in the city are in ruins, and one half in the suburbs are uninhabited, though those occupied by the Greek inhabitants are beautiful, consisting of good stone houses, with gardens well stocked with all the fruits of the climate. On the declivity of the neighbouring hills are about 400 country houses, the residences of the principal inhabitants. The principal buildings which remain are the church of St John, which is become the principal mosque ; the hospital, whence the charity of the knights was liberally dispensed to the faithful from all quarters of the world, which has been transformed into public granaries ; the palace of the grand-master, falling into ruins and almost deserted ; and the senate-house, which still contains some marbles and ancient columns. Of the streets the best and widest is a long street which preserves the name of Rue des Chevaliers. It is perfectly straight, and formed of old houses, on which remain the armorial bearings of the members of the order. On some of these buildings are still seen the arms of the pope.
Rhodes has at present two harbours. The least of these, towards the east, is named Dorca, and its entrance is obstructed by a barrier of rocks, so as to admit the entrance of one ship at a time. It is sufficiently sheltered from the winds by high moles ; but by the negligence of the Turks the sand has been suffered to accumulate until the entrance has been gradually choked up ; and merchant-ships can only enter after being obliged previously to unload their cargoes. The other harbour is larger, and bears the name of Rhodes ; here frigates of thirty guns may anchor, and are sheltered from the west winds, though they are in danger of being dashed against the walls of the city, or the rocks, from the north and north-east winds. The two harbours are separated by a mole which runs obliquely into the sea ; the two extremities are defended by towers 800 feet apart, while in the centre of the mole is a square tower 120 feet high. There is a dock-yard, which, like every other department of the public service, is a scene of disorder and corruption. The population consists of 5000 Turks and about 1000 Jews. Long. 28. 12. 15. E. Lat. 36. 26. N. (f.)
RHOMBOÏDES, in
Geometry,
a quadrilateral figure whose opposite sides and angles are equal, but which is neither equilateral nor equiangular.
RHOMBUS, in
Geometry,
an oblique-angled parallelogram, or quadrilateral figure, whose sides are equal and parallel, but the angles unequal, two of the opposite ones being obtuse and two acute.
RHOMB Solid consists of two equal and right cones joined together at their bases.
RHONE, a department of France, formed out of the ancient districts of the Lyonnois and the Beaujolais. It is situated between 45. 26. and 46. 25. of north latitude, and between 4. 12. and 4. 37. of east longitude. It extends over 1090 square miles, and is divided into two arrondissements, which in the year 1836 contained twenty-five cantons and 253 communes, with 482,024 inhabitants, who mostlyadhere to the Catholic Church. The face of the country is irregular, in all parts hilly, and in some mountainous. The vales
