when triumphing for having happily finished tlle African ' war.”
But of all the marine tortoises, the coriaceous turtle (
Ch. coriacea,
Linn.) seems to attain to the greatest size, individuals having been met with measuring eight feet in length, and weighing about a thousand pounds. It differs from the rest of its tribe, as well in its more lengthened form and tapering termination, as in the softer or more leathery texture of its shield, which is not formed into distinct plates, but rather marked all over with small obscure subdivisions or Hneations, which do not interfere with the general smoothness of the surface. There are also three raised longitudinal ridges, which run from above the shoulders to the posterior portion of the shield. (See Plate CCCCXXX. fig. 5.) This species inhabits the Mediterranean Sea, has been frequently taken even along the outer coasts of France, and occasionally makes its way to our own island shores. In the month of August 1729 a specimen was taken about three leagues from Nantes, near the mouth of the Loire. It measured above seven feet in length, and is said, when taken, to have uttered a scream so loud and hideous as to have been heard at the distance of a mile. Its mouth “ foamed with rage, and exhaled a noisome vapour.” It no doubt, and very naturally, objected to being lifted into a stinking slimy boat, from its own beautiful translucent sea. In the year 1778 a specimen was captured off the coast of Languedoc, which measured seven feet five inches; and, in 1756, another was taken on the Cornwall coast, which, Dr Borlase says, “ measured six feet nine inches from the tip of the nose to the end of the shell, and ten feet four inches from the extremities of the fore-tins extended, and was adjudged to weigh eight hundred pounds.” According to Lacepède, the coriaceous turtle is the species with which the Greeks were best acquainted, and he supposes it to have been particularly used in the formation of the ancient harp or lyre, which was originally constructed by attaching strings or wires to the carapace of one of these marine reptiles. “ We may add,” says Dr Shaw, “ that the ribs or prominences on the back of the shell bcar an obscure resemblance to the strings of a harp, and may have suggested the name of luth or lyre, by which it is called among the French, exclusive of the use to which the shell was anciently applied.” This turtle is reputed to be extremely fat, and it is eaten by the Carthusians, although its flesh is coarse and bad.
GENusCHELYsj Dumeril. Wide-mouthed turtles. This little group resembles the preceding genus Emys in the feet and claws. The carapace is much too small to admit of the withdrawal of the head and limbs, which are proportionally large. The muzzle is prolonged into a little trunk, but the most marked and peculiar character consists in the deeply cleft transverse gape, which is not armed with corneous mandibles, as in the other Chelonians, but rather resembles that of the Batrachian genus
Pipa.
The best known and most noted species is the matamata
( T. fimbria,
Gm.), an animal of a very singular and rather repulsive aspect, first described by M. Bruguiere.@@1 It measures about a foot and a half in length. Its carapace is oval, with raised pyramidal plates pointing backwards. The neck and other parts of the body are furnished with peculiar projecting fringes, or wart-like appendages. This reptile is native to Guiana, and was once common in Cayenne ; but its numbers were long ago much thinned by the fishermen, who prize it as an excellent and nutritious food. It feeds on aquatic plants, and is said to wander by night to
some distance from the banks in search of pasture. The specimen described by M. Bruguiere was brought to him alive, and was sustained for some time on bread and herbs. It afterwards laid five or six eggs, one of which produced a young turtle.
Genus Trionyx, Geoff. Softturtles. Thesehave no plates or scales, but merely a soft skin enveloping their carapace and plastron, neither of which are completely supported by the bones, the ribs not reaching to the margins of the shield, nor being united to each other except by a portion of their length, and the parts analogous to the sternal ribs being replaced by simple cartilage, and the sternal pieces, partly toothed as in the marine species, by no means filling up the whole of the under surface. The feet, as in the fresh-water tortoises, are palmated though not elongated, and only three of the toes are furnished with nails. The corneous portion of the beak is clothed externally with fleshy lips, and the snout is prolonged. The tail is short. The species of this genus dwell in fresh waters, and the flexible margins of their carapace are of use ∙in swimming.
The Egyptian species or tyrse, the
soft turtle
of the Nile
(Test, triungws,
Forskal,
Tr. Ægyptiacus,
Geoff), sometimes attains the length of three feet. Its shield is flattish, and of a green colour, spotted with white. This reptile devours young crocodiles the moment they are hatched, and, according to Sonnini, is more serviceable in this way than even the ichneumon.
An American species (
Tr. ferοx,
Gmel.) inhabits the rivers of the new world, from Guiana as far north as the southern parts of the United States. It lies concealed in reeds and rushes, seizes on birds and reptiles, preying also on young caymans, and being in turn frequently devoured by the elder members of that powerful family. It is itself sought after as an article of food even by the human race, its flesh being by some esteemed equal to that of the green turtle. This species has been described as possessing considerable vigour and swiftness in its motions, and as springing forward when attacked to meet its assailant with fierceness and alacrity. It measures about a foot and a half in length, and seems to have been first described by Dr Garden in his correspondence with Pennant.@@2
Order II—SAURIA. SAURIAN REPTILES.
In this order the heart is composed, as among the Che-lonians, of two auricles and a ventricle, the latter being sometimes divided by imperfect partitions. The ribs are moveable, partly attached to the sternum, and are capable of being raised and depressed for the purposes of respiration. The lungs extend more or less towards the hinder portion of the body, and frequently enter far into the lower part of the abdomen. Those in which the lungs are large possess the singular faculty of changing the colour of their skin, according as they are excited by their wants or passions. The eggs are enveloped by a more or less consistent covering, and the young are born in the perfect state, that is, they merely increase in size, without undergoing metamorphosis. The mouth is always armed with teeth ; and the toes are furnished with nails, with very few exceptions. The skin is clothed with scales, or with little scaly granules. All the species have a tail, varying in length in the different kinds, but almost always thick at the base. The majority have four legs, although a few have only a single pair.
1
@@@
Journal d' Hist. Nat.
1792.
@@@2
Phil. Trans,
lxi. 266. The chief works on the Chelonian reptiles are the following. J. G. Walbaum,
Chelonographia oder Ites-Chreibung e
∖
niger Schildkrorten,
1782. J. G. Schneider,
AUgcmeine Naturgcschichte der Schildkrorteni nebst einen Systematitchcn berzeieh-*issc dcr einzelnen arien,
1783. J. D. Schoepf,
Historia Testudinum iconibus illustrata.
A. F. Schweigger,
Monoffraphia Testuatnum
(in the Archives de Kcenigsberg for 1812). Thomas Bell, F. lt. S.,
Monograph of the Testudinata.
J. Spix, ⅛eriex
Novœ Testudiuum et Ranarum quai in itinere, &c.,
1824. The various species are also enumerated by Mr Gray in his
Synopsis Heptilinim,
