Onis et Reipublica, Carolo
V.
Cœsare, Commentarii;
Father Paul’s History of the Council of Trent ; and D’Aubigné’s History of the Reformation. The Life of Luther by D1 Aubigne may likewise be perused with advantage.
REFRACTION, in general, is the deviation of a moving body from its direct course, occasioned by the different density of the media in which it moves ; or it is a change of direction occasioned by a body’s falling obliquely out of one medium into another. The word is chiefly made use of with regard to the rays of light. See Optics.
REFRACTION of Altitude,
the arc or portion of a vertical circle, by which the altitude of a star is increased by the refraction of light.
Refraction of Ascension and Descension,
an arc of the equator, by which the ascension and descension of a star, whether right or oblique, is increased or diminished by the refraction.
Refraction of Declination
is an arc of a circle of declination, by which the declination of a star is increased or diminished by refraction.
REFRACTION of Latitude,
an arc of a circle of latitude, by which the latitude of a star is increased or diminished by the refraction.
Refraction of Longitude,
an arc of the ecliptic, by which the longitude of a star is increased or diminished by means of the refraction.
Refraction, Terrestrial,
is that which makes terrestrial objects appear to be raised higher than they are in reality, in observing their altitudes.
REFRANGIBILITY of Light, the disposition of rays to be refracted. The term is chiefly applied to the disposition of rays to produce different colours, according to their different degrees of refrangibility. See Optics.
REFRIGERATIVE, in
Medicine,
a remedy which refreshes the inward parts by cooling them ; as clysters, ptisans, and the like.
REFRIGERATORY, in
Chemistry,
a vessel filled with cold water, through which the worm or spiral tube passes in distillations ; the use of which is to condense the vapours as they pass through the worm or pipe.
REFUGEES, a term at first applied to the French Protestants, who, by the revocation of the edict of Nantes, were constrained to fly from persecution, and take refuge in foreign countries. Since that time, however, it has been extended to all such as leave their country in time of distress.
REGALBUTO, a town of the island of Sicily, in the intendency of Messina, and district of Demone. It stands on a hill near the river of the same name, in a salubrious situation, 100 miles from Palermo, and contains 6800 inhabitants.
REGALIA, in
Law,
the rights and prerogatives of a king. Regalia is also used for the apparatus of a coronation.
REGALMUTO, a city of the intendency of Girgente, and district of Mazzara, in the island of Sicily. It stands upon a level plain, in a healthy and fertile situation, sixty-eight miles from Palermo, and contains 7200 industrious inhabitants, who obtain from a mountain near them salt, quicksilver, saltpetre, sulphur, gypsum, and some excellent stone for building.
REGAN, a neat little town of Persia, in the province of Kerman, situated in the district of Nurmansheer, on the eastern frontier. The town is surrounded by a mud-wall ; the fort is quadrangular, and the walls are high and in good ι epair, being flanked with bastions. The cattle of the inhabitants are driven every night within the walls for protection. A guard is constantly kept at the only gate which the town has, to prevent the entrance of strangers, and also the predatory incursions of the surrounding tribes. It is eighty-nine miles east from Bumm.
REGARDANT, in
Heraldry,
signifies looking behind ; and it is used for a lion or other beast, with his face turned towards hie tail.
REGARDER, an ancient officer of the king’s forest, who was sworn to make the regard of the forest every year ; that is, to take a view of its limits, to inquire into all offences and defaults committed by the foresters within the forest, and to observe whether all the officers executed their respective duties.
REGATTA, a species of amusement peculiar to the republic of Venice. This spectacle had the power of exciting admiration, enthusiasm, and a sense of glory. The grand regatta was only exhibited on particular occasions, as the visits of foreign princes and kings at Venice.
REGEL, or Rigel, a fixed star of the first magnitude, in Orion’s left foot.
REGEN, one of the circles into which the kingdom of Bavaria is divided, and deriving its name from the chief river which flows through it. On the north it is bounded by the circle of the Upper Maine, on the north-east by Bohemia, on the south-east by the Lower Danube, on the south by the Issar, and on the south-west by the Lower Danube. It extends over 4282 square miles, and comprehends fifty-six cities and market-towns, and 3160 villages and hamlets. The population amounts to 364,470 persons. In the part which borders on Bohemia the country is mountainous, but to the south of the Danube it is generally either level or undulating. Some of the rivers run to the Maine, but the greater part of the streams find their way to the sea through the Danube. The soil to the north of the Danube is poor, but to the south of that stream is moderately productive of the common kinds of grain, and somewhat more of flax and hemp. The circle is divided into nineteen bailiwicks, several of which are under the authority of mediatized princes.
REGENERATION, in
Theology,
the act of being born again by a spiritual birth, or the change of heart and life experienced by a person who forsakes a course of vice, and sincerely embraces a life of virtue and piety.
REGENT, one who governs a kingdom during the minority or absence of the king.
Regent also signifies a professor of arts and sciences in a college, having pupils under his care ; but it is generally restricted to the lower classes, as to rhetoric, logic, &c. those of philosophy being called
professors.
In the English universities it is applied to masters of arts under five years standing, and to doctors under two, as non-regent is to those above that standing.
REGGIO, a province of the duchy of Modena, in Italy, 710 square miles in extent, and containing 161,600 inhabitants. The chief place is the city of the same name, on the navigable canal Tassoni, by which it is connected with the Po. It is surrounded with indefensible walls, and has a citadel not tenable against attacks. It is the scat of a bishop, and has a magnificent cathedral, twenty-two parish and twenty-six monastic churches, a Jesuits’ college and episcopal seminary, and a fine theatre. It contains 1500 houses, and 18,600 inhabitants, who make many kinds of silk goods and some linens, and have an extensive trade in the raw produce of the district.
REGICIDE, King-killer, a word chiefly used with us in speaking of the persons concerned in the trial, condemnation, and execution of Charles I.
REGIFUGIUM was a feast celebrated at Rome on
tlle
24th of February, in commemoration of the expulsion of Tarquin the Proud, and the abolition of the regal power. It wasalso performed on the 26th of May, when the king of the sacrifices, or
Rex Sacrorum,
offered bean-flour and bacon in the place where the assemblies were held. The sacrifice being ended, the people hastened away with all speed, to denote the precipitate flight of Tarquin,
