lage des lentisques, sa couleur était d’un blanc assez pur, tirant sur le jaunâtre. Saisi, il se gonflait d’abord et ne faisait nul effort pour éviter le danger ; sans doute il en sentait l’inutilité ; mais bientôt on voyait circuler sur toutes les partiés de son corps des teintes diverses dues au sang, poussé vers la peau par la dilatation de ses vastes poumons. Le caméléon, rendu à lui-même, ne tardait point à reprendre sa couleur blanchâtre que la mort rembrunit. Du reste, le plus innocent de tous les animaux, ce caméléon changeant, qui ne cherche jamais à mordre, vit de mouches qu’il guette ; lorsque celles-ci passent à sa portée, son corps, sa tête, ses membres demeurent immobiles ; mais il a calculé la portée de sa langue, il la lance comme un trait ; et l’animal ailé, malgré son agilité et la promptitude de son vol, se trouve collé au bouton visqueux qui le rapport en un clin-d’œil dans la bouche de son ennemi.
“ On a imprimé, dans la plupart des livres d’histoire naturelle, qu’on ne trouvait des caméléons que dans les parties les plus chaudes des régions intertropicales. Ces animaux s’y plaisent sans doute, mais non seulement ils dépassent les tropiques, ils s’élèvent encore beaucoup au nord dans la zone tempérée, puisque nous en avons trouvé fréquemment dans le midi de l’Espagne. L’espèce de Barbarie y est aussi commune autour de la baie de Catlix, où lorsque, pour les opérations de la siège, nous faisions abattre des pins sur la rive gauche du Guadalete, nous en trouvions communément entre les rameaux dont se formaient la cime de ces arbres. On en voit dans quelques maisons, qui demeurent fort longtemps, sans remuer, suspendus à des ficelles sur lesquelles on les a placés comme objets de curiosité ; les chats en sont assez friands, et ceux qu’on tient en captivité finissent ordinairement par les griffes de ces tigres domestiques.”@@1
The best-known species is
Cham, vulgaris,
often called the African cameleon (
Lac. Africana,
Gm.), an ill-selected name, in as far as several other kinds occur in Africa, and the species in question spreads from the south of Spain through many intermediate countries into India. The hood is pointed, and raised into a ridge on its anterior portion, the dorsal ridge is dentated as far as the middle of the back, the inferior one as far as the anus. The granules of the skin are equal and closely set. In the female the hood is of smaller size, and the dentations of the ridge less strongly marked. It is to this species, which measures about a foot and a half in length, that our preceding quotations apply, and that is also referred to in most of the general observations on cameleons found in books. See Plate CCCCXXXII. fig. 1.
The female deposits her eggs to the number of thirty, in an excavation which she hollow’s in the ground, and afterwards covers over with loose earth, “ servendosi,” says Va-lisnieri, “ a questo lavoro delle sole zampe di dlietro, come i gatti, quando nascondono et cuoprono Ie loro sozzure, non contenta della cavata terra vi ramasso e ammonticello delle foglie secche, della paglia, e degli Stecchetti avendovi inal-zato sopra una collinetta di copertura.@@2
We shall here mention briefly a few of the most distinctly known of the other species of the genus.3
Cham, tigris,
Cuv., has the hood or helmet small, and is distinguished by a compressed dentated wattle beneath the end of the lower jaw. Its body is beset with black points, and the granules are fine and equal. It inhabits the Seychelle Islands. An allied species (
Cham, verrucosus,
Cuv.) has larger granules mingled with the others, and there is a series of parallel warts on the sides of the back. It is a native of the Mauritius.
Cham, pumi!us,
Daud., has the hood directed backwards, and scattered warts upon the sides, limbs, and tail ; and beneath the throat are numerous compressed finely-toothed wattles, which vary in different individuals. It occurs in the south of Africa, the Isle of France, and the Seychelles. Cuvier is of opinion, that
Cham. Seiehelleusis
of Khul is merely the female of this species. The Senegal kind,
Cham, planiceps,
Merr.
(Lac. chameleon,
Gm.), has the hood flattened, almost without ridge, and horizontally of a parabolic form. It occurs in Barbary, and has likewise been seen in Georgia.
Cham, pardalis,
Cuv., from the Isle of France, is marked irregularly with black round spots, bordered with white. A peculiar species from the Moluccas is distinguished by two large compressed prominences projecting in front of the muzzle. It is the
Cham, bifurcus
of M. Brogniart.
FAMILY VL—SCINCIDÆ.
Distinguishable by their short legs, their unextensile tongue, and their scales of equal size, which cover the body and tail like tiles.
In the genus Scinccs, Daud., the legs are rather short, the body of almost equal size with the tail, without any occipital enlargement, crest, or dewlap, the scales uniform, shining, and disposed like those of a carp. Some of the species assume a fusiform or spindle shape, others are nearly cylindrical, and more or less lengthened, resembling certain serpents, especially those of the genus
Anguis,
with which they are likewise connected by several internal relations. The tongue is fleshy, little extensile, and but slightly cleft; and the jaws are furnished all around with small close-set teeth. The toes are free.
A few have teeth upon the palate. Of these is the common or officinal scink
(Sc. officinalis,
Schn.,
Lac. scincus,
Linn.), which measures six or eight inches in length. The tail is shorter than the body, and the proportional length considerable from the snout to the shoulder. The general colour is a silvery yellow hue, with transverse blackish bands. It is very abundant in Libya, Syria, Arabia, and Egypt, and is frequently imported from Alexandria into Europe. It frequents rather dry and sandy soils, and is remarkable for the extraordinary rapidity with which it burrows, vanishing almost instantaneously, and seeming, as Bruce has well expressed it, “ rather to have found a hole than to have made one.” This is the reptile called
el αdda
by the Arabs. It was once held in high estimation as an article in the Materia Medica, its flesh being regarded as advantageous in leprous and many other cases. A much larger species (Sc.
Cyprius) 
occurs in the Levant, and some of the Mediterranean Islands, 
Sc. rufescens
is widely spread over India, and
Sc. triυitta-tus
is common at the Cape of Good Hope. To this group also belongs the galley-wasp of Jamaica
(Sc. occidua, 
Shaw), a large reptile of nearly two feet in length. We are not acquainted with its modern history, and doubt its poisonous properties, though Browne, in his Natural History of Jamaica, informs us that it is reckoned the most vene-mous reptile in the island, and that it is believed no creature can recover from its bite. The author, how, ever, justly regards this as a popular error.
Other species of this genus have no teeth upon the palate. Such is
Sc. ocellatus,
Schneid., well known in the southern countries of Europe, the Mediterranean Islands, Egypt, &c. The West Indies, the Moluccas, and New Holland, produce analogous kinds, some of them remarkable for their size.
The genus Seps of Daudin differs from the preceding in having the body so elongated as to resemble that of a serpent (a conformation well expressed by the names
Lacerta
@@@1
Diction. Class. d'IIist. Nat.,
iii. 96.    
2 Isloria del Carneleonte Afrieano.
@@@2 See a paper by Mr Gray, in tbe
Philosophical Magaxine,
vol. ii. p. 209 ; and
Erpétologie Générale,
iii. 203.
