REPRESENTATIVE, one who personates or supplies the place of another, and is invested with his right and authority. Thus the House of Commons is composed of the representatives of the people in parliament. (See Parliament.)
REPRIEVE, in
Criminal Law
(from
reprendre,
to take back), is the withdrawing of a sentence for an interval of time, by which means the execution is suspended.
REPRISALS, a right which princes claim of taking from their enemies anything equivalent to what the latter unjustly detain from them or their subjects. For as the delay of making war may sometimes be detrimental to individuals who have suffered by depredations from foreign potentates, our laws have in some respects armed the subject with power to impel the prerogative, by directing the ministers of the crown to issue letters of marque and reprisal upon due demand ; the prerogative of granting which is nearly related to, and plainly derived from, that of making war, tlle former indeed being only an incomplete state of hostilities, and generally ending in a formal denunciation of war. These letters are grantable by the law of nations, whenever the subjects of one state are oppressed and injured by those of another ; and justice is denied by that state to which the oppressor belongs. In this case letters of marque and reprisal (words used as synonymous, and signifying, the latter a taking in return, the former the passing the frontiers in order to such taking) may be obtained, in order to seize the bodies or goods of the subjects of tlle offending state, until satisfaction be made, wherever they happen to be found. And indeed this custom of reprisals seems dictated by nature herself ; for which reason we find in the most ancient times very notable instances of it. But here the necessity is obvious of calling in the sovereign power to determine when reprisals may be made, else every private sufferer would be a judge in his own cause. In pursuance of this principle, it is with us declared by the statute 4 Henry V. c. 7, that if any subjects of the realm are oppressed in time of truce by any foreigners, the king will grant letters of marque in due form to all who feel themselves aggrieved. The form to be observed is thus prescribed : The sufferer must first
apply to the lord privy-seal, and he shall make out letters of request under the privy-seal ; and if, after such request of satisfaction made, the party required do not within a convenient time make due satisfaction or restitution to the party aggrieved, the lord chancellor shall make him out letters of marque and reprisal under the great seal ; and by virtue of these he may attack and seize the property of the aggressive nation, without hazard of being condemned as a robber or a pirate.
REPROBATION, in
Theology,
means the act of abandoning, or state of being abandoned, to eternal destruction, and is applied to that decree which God has made from all eternity to punish sinners who shall die in impenitence ; in which sense it is directly opposed to election. When a sinner is so hardened as to feel no remorse or misgiving of conscience, it is considered as a sign of reprobation ; which by the casuists has been distinguished into positive and negative. The first is that by which God is supposed to create men with a positive and absolute resolution to damn them eternally. This opinion is countenanced by St Augustin and other Christian Fathers, and is a peculiar tenet of Calvin and most of his followers. The Church of England, in the Thirty-nine Articles, teaches Somethinglikeit; and the Church of Scotland, in the Confession of Faith, maintains it in the strongest terms. But the notion is generally exploded, and is believed by no rational divine in either church, being totally injurious to the justice of the Deity. Negative or conditional reprobation is that by which God, though he has a sincere desire to save men, and furnishes them with the necessary means, so that all, if they will, may be saved, yet sees that there are many who will not be saved by the means, however powerful, which are afforded them ; though by other means which the Deity sees, but will not afford them, they might be saved- Reprobation respects angels as well as men.
REPRODUCTION is usually understood to mean the restoration of a thing before existing, and since destroyed. It is very well known that trees and plants may be raised from slips and cuttings ; and there are some animals which have the same property of being reproduced.
REPTILIA. REPTILES.@@1
These form the third great division of the animal kingdom, and in systematic works on natural history occupy an intermediate position between the class of birds and that of fishes.@@
2
As in tracing the modifications of various organs, from the Zoophytical and radiated animals to the molluscous, from these to the articulated classes, and onwards through the fishes to the reptile tribes, it is among the last named that we first perceive the passage from the truly aquatic to the terrestrial or air-breathing animal,—so the respiratory organs of such tribes are naturally those which excite the greatest and most peculiar interest. Among the more important classes of animals, respiration is effected in one or other of two ways ; l
st
, either by certain internal cellular sacs, for the reception of air, called
lungs,
which communicate with the mouth and nose by means of the trachea or windpipe; or,
2dly,
by external organs called
gills,
which require either to float in water, or to be in some other way continually immersed in that fluid. The object of both contrivances is to subject the blood to the influence of vital air, and this end is obtained very admirably, though
in a different way, by each. All mammiferous animals or quadrupeds, including whales, all birds, and all reptiles (in the perfect state), possess the first form of the respiratory organs ; all fishes, and several reptiles in their adolescent condition, are distinguished by the second. But even among such as are furnished with true lungs, we observe different modifications of the circulating system.
The principal characteristic of reptiles in general consists in this, that only a portion of the blood is transmitted through the lungs, the remainder being projected by the heart directly to the other parts of the body, without being specially subjected to the influence of the respiratory organs ; whereas, in the higher classes, such as man, the rest of the mammalia, and birds, the whole of the blood must pass by the lungs before it is retransmitted to the more distant parts of the circulating system. The amphibious habits of such reptiles as are unprovided with gills, result in a great measure from the power which they thus possess of carrying on a partial circulation of the blood, independent of respiration. The respiration of animals, or the process by which the blood is oxygenated, becomes weaker and less
@@@1 The natural history of reptiles is frequently treated of under the term Erpetology, from
ii τeτtt, reptile,
and    
ducaurts.
The verb ïj»u, signifies
to creep.
@@@2 See our general sketch, under the title of Ανιμαι. ΚινGDομ, in this Encyclopædia, vol. iii. pp. 155-180.
