witnesses of it. These rains of frogs always happen after very dry seasons, and are much more frequent in the hotter than in the cold countries. In Italy they are very frequent ; and it is not uncommon to see the streets of Rome swarming with young frogs and toads in an instant after a shower of rain. Nay, they have been seen to fall through the air down upon the pavements. This seems to be a strong circumstance in favour of their being rained down from the clouds ; but, when strictly examined, it comes to nothing. For these frogs which are seen to fall are always found dead, lamed, or bruised by the fall, and never hop about like the rest ; and they are never seen to fall, except close under the walls of houses, from the roofs and gutters of which they have accidentally slipped down. Some people who love to add to things strange others yet stranger, affirm that young frogs have fallen into their hats in the midst of an open field ; but this is equally idl e and false.
Others, who cannot agree with the opinion of their falling from the clouds, have tried to solve the difficulty of their sudden appearance, by supposing them hatched out of the egg, or spawn, by these rains. Nay, some have supposed them to be made immediately out of the dust. But there are unanswerable arguments against all these suppositions. Equivocal generation, or the spontaneous production of animals out of dust, is now wholly exploded. The fall from the clouds would destroy and kill these tender and soft-bodied animals. And they cannot be at this time hatched immediately out of eggs, because the young frog does not make its appearance from the egg in form, but has its hinder legs enveloped in a skin, and is what w, e call a
tadpole ;
and the young frogs are at least a hundred times larger at the time of their appearance than the egg from which they should be hatched.
It is beyond a doubt that the frogs which make their appearance at this time were hatched and in being long before. But the dry seasons had injured them, and kept them sluggishly in holes or coverts ; and all the rain does is enlivening them, giving them new spirits, and calling them forth to seek new' habitations, and enjoy the element they were destined in a great measure to live in. Theophrastus, the greatest of all the naturalists of antiquity, has affirmed the same thing. We find that the error of supposing these creatures to fall from the clouds was as old as the time of that author ; and also that the truth in regard to their appearance was as early known ; though, in the ages that followed, authors have taken care to conceal the truth, and to hand down to us the error. We find this vencrable sage, in a fragment of his on the generation of animals which appear on a sudden, ridiculing the opinion, and asserting that they were hatched and living long before. The world, however, owes to the accurate Signor Redi the great proof of this truth, which Theophrastus has only affirmed. This gentleman, dissecting some of these frogs, found in their stomachs herbs and other half-digested food ; and, openly showing this to his credulous countrymen, asked them whether they thought that nature, which engendered, according to their opinion, these animals in the clouds, had also been so Jlrovident as to provide grass there for their food and nourishment?
To the raining of frogs we ought to add the raining of
grasshoppers
and
locusts,
which have sometimes appeared in prodigious numbers, and devoured the fruits of the earth. There has not been the least pretence for supposing that these animals descended from the clouds, though they appeared on a sudden in prodigious numbers. The naturalist, who knows the many accidents attending the eggs of these and other like animals, cannot but know that some seasons will prove particularly favourable to the hatching them ; and the Jlrodigious number of eggs that many insects lay could not but every year bring us such abundance of the young, were they not liable to many accidents, and had not provident nature taken care, as in many plants, to continue the species by a very numerous stock of seeds, of which perhaps not one in five hundred need take root in order to continue an equal number of plants. It is thus also in regard to insects ; and hence it cannot but happen, that if a favourable season encourage the hatching of all those eggs, a very small number of which alone is necessary to continue the species, we must in such seasons have a proportional abundance of them. More than half a century ago, there appeared in London such a prodigious swarm of the little beetle called the
lady-cow,
that the very posts in the streets were everywhere covered with them. But, thanks to the progress of philosophy amongst us, we had nobody to assert that it rained cow-ladies, but we contented ourselves with saying that it had been a favourable season for their eggs. The prodigious number of a sort of grub, which, about the same period, did vast mischief to the corn and grass, by eating off the roots, might also have been supposed to proceed from its having rained grubs, by people fond of making everything a prodigy ; but our knowledge in natural history assured us, that these were only the hexapod worms of the common hedge-beetle called the
cockchafer.
The raining of
fishes
has also been a prodigy much talked of in France, where the streets of a town at some distance from Paris, after a terrible hurricane in the night, which tore up trees, blew down houses, and did other damage, were found in a manner covered with fishes of various sizes. Nobody here made any doubt of these having fallen from the clouds ; nor did the absurdity of fish, of five or six inches in length, being generated in the air, at all startle the people, or shake their belief in the miracle, until they found, ujκ>n inquiry, that a very well-stocked fish-pond, which stood on an eminence in the neighbourhood, had been blown dry by the hurricane, and only the great fish left at the bottom of it, the smaller fry having been tossed into their streets.
Upon the whole, all the supposed marvellous rains have been owing to substances naturally produced on the earth either never having been in the air at all, or only carried thither by accident.
RAINBOW. See Meteorology and Optics.
Lunar Rainbow.
The moon sometimes exhibits the phenomenon of an iris or rainbow by the refraction of her rays in drops of rain during the night-time. But this phenomenon is very rare. In the Philosophical Transactions for 1783, however, we have an account of three which were seen in one year, and all in the same place ; it is communicated in tw'θ letters by Mr Marmaduke Tunstall. The first was seen on the 27th of February 1782, at Greta Bridge, Yorkshire, between seven and eight at night, and appeared in tolerably distinct colours, similar to a solar one, but more faint, the orange colour seeming to Jlredominate. It happened at full moon, at which time alone they are said to be always seen. Though Aristotle is stated to have observed two, and some others have been seen by Snellius, Mr Tun-stall could only find two described w ith any accuracy ; one by Plot, in his History of Oxfordshire, which was seen by him in 1675, though without colours; and the other seen by a Derbyshire gentleman at Glapwell, near Chesterfield, described by Thoresby, and inserted in the Philosophical Transactions, No. 331. This was about Christmas 1710, and is said to have had all the colours of the
iris Solaris.
The night was windy ; and although there was then a drizzling rain and a dark cloud, in which the rainbow was reflected, it proved afterwards a light frost.
Two others were afterwards seen by Mr Tunstall. One of these was observed on the 30th of July, about eleven o’clock, which lasted about a quarter of an hour, but w ithout colours ; and the other, which appeared on the 18th of October, was perhaps the most extraordinary one of the kind that had ever been seen. It became visible about nine o’clock, and con
