and suppressed unless it received a speedy and effectual support, ordered Luther and Melancthon to draw up a body of laws relating to the form of ecclesiastical government, the method of public worship, and other necessary matters, which were to be proclaimed by heralds throughout his dominions. This example was followed by all the princes and states of Germany who had renounced the papal supremacy ; and a similar form of worship, discipline, and government, was thus introduced into all the churches which had dissented from that of Rome. This open renunciation of the ancient ecclesiastical jurisdiction changed the face of affairs ; and the patrons of Popery intimated, in a manner not at all ambiguous, that they intended to make war upon the Lutheran party. On the other hand, the Lutherans, apprised of these hostile intentions, began to deliberate on a proper plan of defence against the attack with which they were threatened.
The Diet of the Empire assembled in the year 1526, at Spires, where the emperor’s ambassadors were desired to use their utmost endeavours to suppress all disputes about religion, and to insist upon the rigorous execution of the sentence which had been pronounced against Luther and his followers at Worms. The greater part of the German princes, however, opposed this motion with the utmost resolution ; declaring that they could neither execute the sentence, nor come to any determination with regard to the doctrines by which it had been occasioned, before the whole matter had been submitted to the decision of a council lawfully assembled ; and further alleging, that the decision of controversies of this nature belonged properly to a general council, and to it alone. This opinion, after long and warm debates, was adopted by a majority, and at length consented to by the whole assembly. It was unanimously agreed to present a solemn address to the emperor, entreating him to assemble, without delay, a general council ; whilst in the mean time it was also agreed, that the princes of the empire should, in their respective dominions, be at liberty to manage ecclesiastical affairs in the manner they should think most proper, yet so as to be able to give to God and the emperor a proper account of their administration whenever it should be required of them.
These resolutions proved exceedingly favourable to the cause of reformation. Neither had the emperor, for some time, any leisure to give disturbance to the reformed. The war, which about this time ensued between him and the pope, gave the greatest advantage to the friends of the reformed, and considerably augmented their number. Several princes, whom the fear of persecution and punishment had hitherto prevented from lending their assistance, publicly renounced the Catholic religion, and introduced amongst their subjects the same forms of religious worship, and the same system of doctrine, which had been received in Saxony. Others, though placed in such circumstances as discouraged them from acting in an open manner against the interests of the Roman pontiff, were, however, far from discovering the smallest opposition to those who withdrew the people from his despotic yoke ; nor did they molest the private assemblies of those who had separated themselves from the communion of Rome. And, in general, all the Germans who, before these resolutions of the Diet of Spires, had rejected the papal discipline and doctrine, were now, in consequence of the liberty they enjoyed, wholly employed in bringing their schemes and plans to a certain degree of consistence, and in adding vigour and firmness to the cause in which they -were engaged.
But this tranquillity and liberty were not of long duration. In the year 1529, a new diet was assembled at the same place by the emperor, after he had quieted the troubles in various parts of his dominions, and concluded a peace with the pope. The power which had been granted to princes, of managing ecclesiastical affairs until the meeting of a general council, was now revoked by a majority of votes ; and every
change declared unlawful that should be introduced into the doctrine, discipline, or worship of the established religion, before the determination of the approaching council was known. This decree was considered as iniquitous and intolerable by the Elector of Saxony, the Landgrave of Hesse, and other members of the diet, who were persuaded of the necessity of a reformation. The promise of speedily assembling a general council they looked upon as an artifice of the Church of Rome, conceiving that a free and lawful council would be the last thing to which the pope would consent.
When, therefore, they found that all their arguments and remonstrances made no impression upon Ferdinand, the emperor’s brother, who presided in the diet, Charles himself being then at Barcelona, they entered a solemn protest against this decree on the 19th of April, and appealed to the emperor and a future council. Hence arose the denomination of Protestants, which from this period has been given to those who separated from the communion of the Church of Rome. The princes of the empire who entered this protest, were John elector of Saxony, George elector of Brandenburg, Ernest and Francis dukes of Lunenburg, the Landgrave of Hcsse, and the Prince of Anhalt ; and they were seconded by thirteen imperial towns, viz. Strasburg, Ulm, Nuremberg, Constance, Windsheim, Memmin-gen, Nordlingen, Lindau, Kempton, Heilbron, Wissem-burg, and St Gall.
The dissenting princes, who were besides the protectors and heads of the reformed churches, had no sooner entered their protest, than they sent proper persons to the emperor, who was then upon his passage from Spain to Italy, to acquaint him with their proceedings in this matter. The ministers employed in this commission executed it with the greatest intrepidity and presence of mind ; but the emperor, exasperated at the audacity of those who presumed to differ from him, caused the ambassadors to be arrested. The news of this violent step made the Protestant princes conclude that their personal safety, and the success of their cause, depended entirely upon their own courage and their union. They therefore determined to enter into a solemn confederacy ; and for this purpose they held several meetings at Rot, Nuremberg, Smalcald, and other places; but so different were their opinions and views, that for a time they could determine upon nothing.
One great obstacle to the intended confederacy was the dispute which had arisen between Luther and Zuinglius, concerning the real presence of Christ in the Lord’s Supper. To terminate this dispute, if possible, Philip, landgrave of Hesse, in the year 1529 invited to a conference at Marpurg, Luther and Zuinglius, together with several other of the more eminent doctors who adhered to the respective parties of these contending chiefs. But this measure was not attended with the salutary effects which were expected from it. The divines disputed for four days in presence of the landgrave. Luther attacked Œcolampa-dius, and Zuinglius was attacked by Melancthon. Zuin-glius was accused of heresy, not only on account of his explanation of the nature and design of the Lord’s Supper, but also in consequence of the false notions which he was supposed to have adopted concerning the divinity of Christ, the efficacy of the Divine Word, original sin, and some other parts of the Christian doctrine. This illustrious reformer, however, cleared himself from the greater part of these charges with the most triumphant evidence, and in such a manner as appeared satisfactory even to Luther himself. But their dissension concerning the manner of Christ’s presence in the Eucharist still remained ; nor could either of the contending parties be persuaded to abandon, or even to modify, their opinions upon that matter. The only advantage, therefore, which resulted from the meeting was, that the jarring doctors formed a kind of truce, by agreeing
