is required for moving this body with this velocity through stagnant water.
A body in motion appears to be resisted by a stagnant fluid, because it is a law of nature that force must be employed in order to put any body in motion. Now the body cannot move forward without putting the contiguous fluid in motion, and force must be employed for producing this motion. In like manner, a quiescent body is impelled by a stream of fluid, because the motion of the contiguous fluid is diminished by this solid obstacle ; the resistance, therefore, or impulse, no way differs from the ordinary communications of motion among solid bodies.
Sir Isaac Newton, therefore, begins his theory of the resistance and impulse of fluids, by selecting a case where, although he cannot pretend to ascertain the motions themselves which are produced in the particles of a contiguous fluid, he can tell precisely their mutual ratios. He supposes two systems of bodies such, that each body of the first is similar to a corresponding body of the second, and that each is to each in a constant ratio. He also supposes them to be similarly situated, that is, at the angles of similar figures, and that the homologous lines of these figures are in the same ratio with the diameters of the bodies. He farther supposes that they attract or repel each other in similar directions, and that the accelerating connecting forces are also proportional ; that is, the forces in the one system are to the corresponding forces in the other system in a constant ratio, and that, in each system taken apart, the forces are as the squares of the velocities directly, and as the diameters of the corresponding bodies, or their distances, inversely.
This being the case, it follows, that if similar parts of the two systems are put into similar motions in any given instant, they will
continue
to move similarly, each correspondent body describing similar curves, with proportional velocities : For the bodies being similarly situated, the forces which act on a body in one system, arising from the combination of any number of adjoining particles, will have the same direction with the force acting on the corresponding body in the other system, arising from the combined action of the similar and similarly directed forces of the adjoining correspondent bodies of the other system ; and these compound forces will have the same ratio with the simple forces which constitute them, and will be as the squares of the velocities directly, and as the distances, or any homologous lines, inversely ; and therefore the chords of curvature, having the direction of the centripetal or centrifugal forces, and similarly inclined to the tangents of the curves described by the corresponding bodies, will have the same ratio with the distances of tlle particles. The curves described by the corresponding bodies will therefore be similar, the velocities will be proportional, and the bodies will be similarly situated at the end of the first moment, and exposed to the action of similar and similarly situated centripetal or centrifugal forces ; and this will again produce similar motions during the next moment, and so on for ever. All this is evident to any person acquainted with the elementary doctrines of curvilineal motions, as delivered in the theory of physical astronomy.
From this fundamental proposition, it clearly follows, that if two similar bodies, having tlleir homologous lines proportional to those of the two systems, be similarly projected among the bodies of those two systems with any velocities, they will produce similar motions in the two systems, and will themselves continue to move similarly, and therefore w'ill, in every subsequent moment, suffer similar diminutions or retardations. If the initial velocities of projection be the same, but the densities of the two systems, that is, the quantities of matter contained in an equal bulk or extent, be different, it is evident that the quantities of motion produced in the two systems in the same time will be proportional to
the densities ; and if the densities are the same and uniform in each system, the quantities of motion produced will be as the squares of the velocities, because the motion communicated to each corresponding body will be proportional to the velocity communicated, that is, to the velocity of the impelling body ; and the number of similarly situated particles which will be agitated will also be proportional to this velocity. Therefore the whole quantities of motion produced in the same moment of time will be proportional to tlle squares of the velocities. And, lastly, if the densities of the two systems are uniform or the same through the whole extent of the systems, the number of particles impelled by similar bodies will be as the surfaces of these bodies.
Now the diminutions of the motions of the projected bodies are (by Newton’s third law of motion) equal to the motions produced in the systems ; and these diminutions are the measures of what are called the resistances opposed to the motions of the projected bodies. Therefore, combining all these circumstances, we have the following proposition.
Prop. I. The resistances and (by the third law of motion) the impulsions of fluids on similar bodies, are proportional to the surfaces of the solid bodies, to the densities of the fluids, and to the squares of the velocities, jointly.
We must now observe, that when we suppose the particles of the fluid to be in mutual contact, we may either suppose them elastic or unelastic. The motion communicated to the collection of elastic particles must be double of what the same body, moving in the same manner, would communicate to the particles of an unelastic fluid. The impulse and resistance of elastic fluids must therefore be double of those of unelastic fluids. And thus the fundamental proposition of the impulse and resistance of fluids, taken in its proper meaning, is susceptible of a rigid demonstration, relative to the only distinct notion that we can form of the internal constitution of a fluid. We say
taken in its proper meaning,
namely, that the impulse or resistance of fluids is a pressure, opposed and measured by another pressure, such as a pound weight, the force of a spring, the pressure of the atmosphere, and the like. We apprehend that it would be very difficult to find any legitimate demonstration of this leading proposition different from this, which we have now borrowed from Sir Isaac Newton, Prop. 23, b. ii.
Princfl.
We acknowledge that it is prolix, and even circuitous ; but in all the attempts made by his commentators and their copyists to simplify it, we see great defects of logical argument, or assumption of principles which are not only gratuitous, but inadmissible.
Before we proceed farther, it will be proper to make a general remark, which will save a great deal of discussion. Since it is a matter of universal experience, that every action of a body on others is accompanied by an equal and contrary re-action ; and since all that we can demonstrate concerning the resistance of bodies during their motions through fluids proceeds on this supposition (the resistance of the body being
assumed
as equal and opposite to the sum of motions communicated to the particles of the fluid, estimated in the direction of the body’s motion), we are entitled to proceed in the contrary order, and to consider the impulsions which each of the particles of fluid exerts on the body at rest, as equal and opposite to the motion which the body would communicate to that particle if the fluid were at rest, and the body were moving with equal velocity in the opposite direction. And therefore the whole impulsion of the fluid must be conceived as the measure of the whole motion which the body would thus communicate to the fluid. It must therefore be also considered as the measure of the resistance which the body, moving with the same velocity, would sustain from the fluid. When, therefore, we
