merse eggs in oil or melted fat ; by which means, not being exposed to the air or to frost, they are well preserved, and contract no bad taste or smell. Another experiment, still more important, made by our author, was to introduce into France the art of hatching fowls and birds, as practised in Egypt, without covering the eggs. Active, sedulous, and attentive, he was early in his study, often at six in the morning. Exact in his experiments and observations, he let no circumstance escape him. His writings must be of great use to future philosophers. In society he was distinguished through life for his modest and agreeable behaviour. His probity, benevolence, goodness of heart, and other amiable qualities, as well natural as acquired, endeared him to his countrymen. He died in the seventy-sixth year of his age, on the 18th of October 1757, and left this world filled with sentiments of piety. His death was the consequence of a fall, which happened at the castle of Bar-nardière on the Maine, where he went to pass his vocation. He bequeathed to the Academy of Sciences his manuscripts and all his natural productions. His works are, 1. A very great number of memoirs, and observations on different parts of natural history, printed in the collections of the Academy of Sciences; and, 2. A large work printed separately in six vols. 4to, entitled a Natural History of Insects. This important work contains a description of vast numbers of caterpillars, moths, gall-insects, flies with two and four wings, lady-birds, and those ephemeron flies which live only in that form a few hours ; and, lastly, of those singular and wonderful insects which are called
polypes,
which being cut into several pieces, each piece lives, grows, and becomes an insect, and affords to our eyes a great number of prodigies. The works of M. de Reaumur are exact, curious, interesting, and exceedingly ingenious. They are written with much candour, clearness, and elegance ; but it must be acknowledged that his manner is somewhat too diftuse. We must not deceive the reader. He often raises our expectations, and does not give us all the satisfaction which we promise ourselves from his writings. His method of raising poultry, in particular, rather disappoints us. He spared neither care, time, nor expense, to render it practicable. He flattered himself and his countrymen with the greatest hopes ; but, notwithstanding his assiduous industry and vast charges, it proved abortive. M. TAdvocat recommended him to obtain from Egypt better information on the subject, and if possible to procure a person versed in the art to instruct him in it ; but his death prevented the completion of the scheme. If any native of Egypt had arrived, shelved M. de Reaumur a better method than his own, and practised it with success, as in his country, the community would have been benefited ; on the other hand, he would have seen, if it had tailed, that the climate of France was not proper for such experiments. M. Maillet, consul at Cairo, to whom the regent had written to obtain the art, offered to send over a native of Egypt, if the government would pay the expense of his voyage, and allow him a pension of 1500 livres. M. Mailletjudged rightly when he preferred this method of proceeding. M. de Reaumur was not ignorant of the design, but he flattered himself that his efforts would be successful without further aid, and thought he should acquire some honour. He certainly had great talents, industry, sagacity, and every other requisite which is necessary in such attempts ; but it is morally impossible that a single man, in a different climate, can attain such knowledge in an art as those who live in a more favourable country, and have had the experience of many ages to profit by. Yet, however unsuccessful M. de Reaumur may have been, posterity is indebted to him for his repeated trials. He has removed some difficulties in the road, and those who travel it may discover what he only saw at a distance.
REBATE, or Rebatement, in
Commerce,
a term much used at Amsterdam for an abatement in the price of several commodities, when the buyer, instead of taking time, advances ready money.
Rebatement, in
Heraldry,
a diminution or abatement of the bearings in a coat of arms.
REBELLION,
Rebellio,
amongst the Romans, was where those who had been formerly overcome in battle, and yielded to their subjection, made a second resistance. But with us it is generally used for the taking up of arms traitorously against the king, whether by natural subjects or others when once subdued ; and the word
rebel
is sometimes applied to him who wilfully breaks a law, as also to a villein disobeying his lord.
There is a difference between enemies and rebels. Enemies are those who are out of the king’s allegiance ; and therefore subjects of the king, either in open war or rebellion, are not the king’s enemies, but traitors. Thus David prince of Wales, who levied war against Edward L, because he was within the allegiance of the king, had sentence pronounced against him as a traitor and a rebel. Private persons may arm themselves to suppress rebels.
REBUS, an enigmatical representation of some name or thing, by using figures or pictures instead of words or parts of words. Camden mentions an instance of this kind of wit in a gallant who expressed his love to a woman named 
Rose Hill,
by painting in the border of his gown a rose, a hill, an eye, a loaf, and a well ; which, in the style of the rebus, reads, “
Rose Hill I love well.”
This kind of wit was long practised by the great, who took the pains to find devices for their names. It was, however, happily ridiculed by Ben Jonson in the humorous description of AbelDrug-ger’s device in the Alchemist, by the Spectator in the device of Jack of Newberry, at which time the rebus, being raised to sign-posts, was grown out of fashion at court.
Rebus is also used by the chemical writers, sometimes to signify sour milk, and sometimes for what they call the ultimate matter of which all bodies are composed.
Rebus, in
Heraldry,
is a coat of arms which bears an allusion to the name of the person ; as three castles for Castleton, three cups for Butler, three conics for Conisby ; a kind of bearings which are of great antiquity.
RECANATI, a city of Italy, in the delegation of Macerata, in the papal dominions. It is situated on a mountain overlooking the Adriatic Sea. It is the seat of a bishop in union with the city of Loretto, and has a cathedral, eight parish churches, eight monasteries, and four nunneries. It is well built, and has a haven at the mouth of the Potenza, with a population of 5990 persons. Long. 13. 27. 48. E. Lat. 43. 25. 40. N.
RECENSIO was an account taken by the censors, every lustrum, of all the Roman people. It was a general survey, at which the
equites,
as well as the rest of the people, were required to appear. New names were now put upon the censor’s list, and old ones cancelled. The
recensio,
in short, was a more solemn and accurate sort of
probatio,
and answered the purpose of a review, by showing who were fit for military service.
RECHÀBITES, a kind of religious order amongst the ancient Jews, instituted by Jonadab the son of Rechab, comprehending only his own family and posterity. Their founder prescribed them three things : first, not to drink any wine ; secondly, not to build any houses, but to dwell in tents ; and, thirdly, not to sow any corn or plant vines.
RECHEAT, in hunting, a lesson which the huntsman plays on the horn, when the hounds have lost their game, to call them back from pursuing a counter scent.
RECHERCHE Archipelago, agroup of islands stretching about 126 miles along the south coast of New Holland, between the thirty-third and thirty-fourth degrees of south latitude. Several of them are naked rocks; and from the coast of New Holland the access is extremely difficult, owing to the rocks and shoals that are interspersed.
