REGIMEN, the regulation of diet with a view to preserve or restore health. See Dietetics.
, Regimen, in
Grammar,
that part of syntax, or construction, which regulates the dependency of words, and the alteration which one occasions in another.
REGIMENT is a body of men, either horse, foot, or artillery, commanded by a colonel, a lieutenant-colonel, and a major. Each regiment of foot is divided into companies, but the number of companies differs. In Britain our regiments have generally ten companies, one of which always consists of grenadiers. Regiments of horse commonly consist of six troops, but there are some which contain nine. Dragoon regiments have generally in time of war eight troops, but in time of peace six only. Each regiment has a chaplain, quarter-master, adjutant, and surgeon. (See tlle article Army.)
REGION, in
Geography,
a large extent of land, inhabited by many people of the same nation, and inclosed within certain limits or bounds.
Region, in
Physiology,
is taken for a division of our atmosphere, which is divided into the upper, middle, and lower regions.
The upper region commences from the tops of the mountains, and reaches to the utmost limits of the atmosphere. In this region reign perpetual and equable calmness, clearness, and serenity. The middle region is that in which the clouds reside, and where meteors are formed, extending from the extremity of the lowest to the tops of the highest mountains. The lowest region is that in which we breathe, which is bounded by the reflection of the sun’s rays, or by the height to which they rebound from the earth. See Atmosphere.
Ethereal Region,
in
Cosmography,
is the whole extent of the universe, in which is included all the heavenly bodies, and even the orb of the fixed stars.
Elementary REGION,
according to the Aristotelians, is a sphere terminated by the concavity of the moon’s orb, comprehending the atmosphere of the earth.
Region, in
Anatomy,
a division of the human body, otherwise called
cavity,
of which anatomists reckon three, viz. the upper region, or that of the head ; the middle region, or that of the thorax or breast ; and the lower, being that of the abdomen or belly.
REGIS, Peter Sylvain, a French philosopher, and a great propagator of the doctrines of Descartes, was born in Agenois in the year 1632. Hestudied languages and philosophy under the Jesuits at Cahors ; and as his views were then directed to the church, he was afterwards occupied in the study of divinity at the university of that town. His progress in learning was so uncommon, that at the end of four years he was offered a doctor’s degree without the usual charges; but he did not think it became him to accept of it till he had also studied in the Sorbonne at Paris. He went thither, but was soon disgusted with theology ; and as the philosophy of Descartes began at that time to make a noise, in consequence of the lectures of Rohault, he conceived a taste for, and gave himself up entirely to, the study of it. He frequented these lectures ; and becoming an adept, went to Toulouse in 1665, and read lectures himself. Having fine parts, a clear and fluent manner, and a happy way of making himself understood, he attracted all sorts of people ; the magistrates, the learned, the ecclesiastics, and the very women, who now all affected to abjure the ancient philosophy. In 1680 he returned to Paris, where the concourse which flocked to him was such that the sticklers for the peripatetic philosophy began to be alarmed. They applied to the Archbishop of Paris, who thought it expedient, in the name of the king, to put a stop to the lectures, which accordingly were discontinued for several months. The whole life of Regis was spent in propagating the new philosophy. In 1690 he published a formal system thereof, containing logic, metaphysics, physics, and morals, in three volumes 4∙to, written in French. It wr as reprinted the year after, at Amsterdam, w'ith the addition of a discourse upon ancient and modern philosophy. He wrote afterwards several pieces in defence of his system, in which he had disputes with M. Huet, Duhamel, Malebranche, and others. His works, though abounding with ingenuity and learning, have been disregarded, in consequence of the great discoveries and advancement in philosophical knowledge which have since been made. He had been chosen member of the Academy of Sciences in 1699, and he died in 1707.
Besides his System of Philosophy, he wrote the following works: The Use of Reason and of Faith ; an Answer to Huet’s Censures of the Cartesian Philosophy ; an Answer to DuhameVs Critical Reflections; some pieces against Malebranche, to show that the apparent magnitude of an object depends solely on the magnitude of its image traced upon the retina ; and a small piece upon the question, Whether Pleasure constitutes our present Happiness ?
REGISTER, a public book, in which are entered and recorded memoirs, acts, and minutes, to be had recourse to occasionally for knowing and proving matters of fact.
REGISTRAR, an officer in the English universities, who has the keeping of all the public records.
REGISTRATION, General, ofBirths, Baptisms, Marriages, Deaths, and Burials, in England and Wales. The first known public authority under which registers recording births or baptisms, marriages, deaths or burials, were systematically kept in England, was an injunction issued in September 1538 (30 Hen. VIII.), by Thomas Lord Cromwell, lord privy seal and vicegerent to tlle king, which enjoined, that in every parish a register-book should be kept in a coffer with two locks, by the parson, vicar, or curate, and churchwardens ; and that every Sunday, in the presence of one of the churchwardens, the parson, &c. should enter in a register-book a written record of the dates and names of the weddings, christenings, and burials, of the preceding week ; by neglect of which duty he incurred a fine of three shillings and fourpence, to be employed in the repair of the church.
In 1547, an injunction was issued by Edward VI. similar to that of 1538, excepting only that the penalty was directed “ to be employed to the poore-box” of the parish.
Inquiry was directed, at the instance of Cardinal Pole, under Philipand Mary, in the years 1555 and 1557, whether tlle clergy had complied w’ith these directions ; and in the first year of Queen Elizabeth, 1559, a further injunction was issued, which differed from that of Edward VI. in 1547 only in directing that the penalty should be divided between the poor-box and the repair of the church. These injunctions were not very strictly observed, as appears by the preamble of a bill to “ authorize every archbishop and bishop to erect one office of registership of all the church-books, to be kept in every diocese,” which, in March 1563, was read a first time in the House of Commons, but did not pass.
The great importance of registration was in 1590 represented to the Lord-treasurer Burghley, who, impressed with the force of the representation, communicated a plan to the Archbishop of Canterbury. Nothing, however, appears to have been done in consequence until October 1597, when a constitution was made by the archbishop, bishops, and clergy of the province of Canterbury, and approved by the queen ; which notices the very great utility of parish-registers, and gives minute directions for keeping them, and for the transmission of a transcript yearly to the diocesan registrar. It appears, too, that persons were appointed for the purpose of ascertaining if the several orders had been complied with ; and that every minister, at institution, was required to declare that he would “ keep the register-book according to the queen’s majesty’s injunctions.”
In 1603, the first year of tlle reign of James I. another
